ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration, please. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The registration will now be made. Colleagues, can we register? Everybody in place? Okay. Dear colleagues, please register. Colleagues, please register. [[10:04:29]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. So I'm asking the factions and groups to record the performance. Please, colleagues, please record the performance. Peter Dustenka's Block. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich conveys the word to the head of the faction "Block of Peter Dustenka" of Igor Greeniv. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u2	Dear friends! I'm going to say the same thing at each meeting until the committee delegates are distributed. It cannot be that more than 20 deputies do not work fully in the Supreme Council. So we didn't do this last session week, we have to do this session. There's no politics there, nothing -- we need to assign deputies to the committees and let them work. That's the first one. The other one. Everyone who's really worried about my amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act wants to calm down. I called off this amendment yesterday after talking to the President and taking into account the arguments that society has to go through this discussion more broadly than it does only in Parliament. I remain a supporter of what this information should be for official use, and we must translate society into a professional anti-corruption regime rather than speculating on the issue of combating corruption. We've talked about this, and we need to get out of this, we need to move on to real steps. In order to take real steps to combat corruption, it must be placed in the hands of the special authorities — in the hands of NABA, in the hands of NAZK, and in the hands of the prosecutor’s office. That's if these organs have all of them. Access to all information and in order for e-declaration not to be cancelled at all and compromised, we need to make amendments that will reduce the criminogenic situation in the country, amendments that can come from population to professionalism in the fight against corruption. I'm going to remain a supporter, and I'm going to make these amendments when the debate in society is ready with all the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u3	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies. The old corrupt judiciary has included a mechanism of cynical self - defense. The plenary of the Supreme Court appealed to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to declare unconstitutional separate provisions of the Court of Justice Act. I would like to remind you that according to these regulations, there will be a new Supreme Court in principle, special courts are eliminated, and competitive selection for judges is being introduced. The reform of justice was one of the main requirements of the Dignity Revolution, voted in Parliament by a constitutional majority, supported by the President of Ukraine and aimed at simplifying the structure of the courts and gradually replacing the judiciary. This has already hurt in our country. Real patriots who will judge by law, not in their pockets, and how many they have put into the judicial corps, should come to the judicial corps. We predicted that the old system would resist, but they had no chance. Justice reform is a request from Ukrainian society and the will of responsible political forces. As early as January of this year, changes to the Constitution were reached with the approval of the Constitutional Court. And that's why the People's Front claims that despite any efforts of the old corrupt system, the beginning of justice reform will lead to a logical end. Regrettably, the outside enemy does not doze. The kidnapping of Roman Suschenk in Moscow took place immediately after the publication of the report of the International Investigation Commission on the collapse of the MN-17 flight. In fact, it became clear to the world that it was the Kremlin’s work and the personal responsibility of Putin and his gravel. We all have to say together that this is not a single case, but just one episode of Russia's massive aggression against Ukraine and the civilized world. The pace of sanctions must now be set by Ukraine, not only to continue, but to expand significantly. We're going to demand this in our international partners: not just the continuation of sanctions, but the substantial expansion. Our faction, the People's Front faction, will initiate a bill to expand the sanctions list. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the Head of Parliament proposed the right decision regarding the introduction of visa-free, or visa-free, regime with Russia. It is quite obvious that every citizen of Ukraine is unprotected in Russia's aggressor territory and can at any time become a hostage. The People's Front supports the decision of Andria Paris. And to some of the national MPs who accuse us of false patriotism, I would like to remind you of the vote for not admitting elections to the State that have passed in the occupied territories. I want reminders of the non-vote for the special confiscation regime to return the money stolen from Yanukovich to the budget of Ukraine, which will go towards enhancing the security, national security and payment in the budgetary sphere and our pensioners. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u5	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u6	Next. It's a very important question that's out of date. This is the warehouse of the CBC. We are in favour of choosing a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. I'd like to state a clear position on the People's Front. Our faction advocates that all parliamentary factions be represented on the Central Election Commission. Such a principle should guarantee the passage of this warehouse through the session hall. CVK needs to be changed. And we need all the factions to be represented in its composition. Next. I want to address the political forces that are holding the rallies now under the Supreme Council, which are feeding numerous people's fairies. And I want to show you the position of the People's Front faction. The People's Front stands for a moratorium on land sales. A broad public debate is needed to assess how the market needs to be reformed. So our faction supports the continuation of the moratorium. And finally. The People's Front supports legislative initiatives this week on ecology, on the restoration of the Road Fund and on the adoption of a new edition of the Education Act. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Yuri Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Parliament's main task this week is to review the draft budget. The position of our faction: the way it's presented, this budget is antisocial. We've made our proposals to the budget committee to adjust the figures. They are economically sound and realistic. Our faction thinks there's an additional 80 billion dollars in the budget that can be found by increasing inflation, devaluation of the bracelets, reducing the cost of bureaucratic structures, primarily by force. The fact is that the government is proposing to increase the financing of power structures while reducing the financing of social protection for military and law enforcement personnel. An additional 80 billion dollars will provide the solution to the most painful issue — overcoming the poverty of the population by raising minimum wages and pensions. We consider it a grave mistake for the government to take a decision to cancel on October 1st the state price regulation for social food groups, which means that the majority of the population of Ukraine survives. In the face of a crisis, the state has to step up price control and thus support its citizens. Hypocrisy of the powerful knows no bounds. Instead of pursuing the economic development of the country, the authorities chose the course of baseless accusations, the pressure on opposition deputies, and the persecution of political opponents. All of this is done for the sole purpose of distracting society from economic and political failures. That is why baseless searches are carried out in the offices of opposition deputies, and the arrests of opposition representatives are announced daily. At the same time, there are sabotages in the investigation of resonant criminal cases in which opposition persists, the burning of the union house in Odessa, the demolition of grenades under the walls of parliament, the cynical murder of Ukrainian journalists Sheremet and Buzin. We demand that we complete all the loud investigations, stop the pressure on the opposition and take our proposals into account the draft budget for raising the social standards of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Jaroslav Moskalenko, the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u10	Honorable colleagues who presided over Ukraine for 25 years were guided, not by the Ukrainian people, but by those to whom they delegated their authority. And as a result of the 25 years that our country lived and the economic situation it was in, our Ukrainian people failed to make a choice for themselves. Today’s assembly of parliament can go down in history as such that it has finally deprived Ukraine of its economic independence. The country has to change its course to economic growth, or it will come to the status of a colony, a country that specializes in unfavourable trade, which is export of resources and imports of high-tech goods. Colony countries are squeezing them deeper and deeper into a debt pit, and people who are poorer every day are starting to exploit their natural resources more severely. Third - world countries are given credit not only to help them but to make them hopelessly guided with outside debtors. Ukrainian economists well know what to do in order to get out of the crisis, recipes in human history are more than enough. As early as the 17th century, Austria’s economist wrote many such recipes, nine of which are now governed by all the most successful countries in the world. Many countries are primarily struggling to export their resources, but only in finished products, because products are taxes, they are jobs. If countries go to import, they do this so that imports are not 100 percent ready, but are made in the country to make money for domestic workers. Many countries study each inch of their land, explore their natural resources, and try hard to satisfy their internal demand for their domestic bulk production. They understand well that the $2 spent in their country is much better than a dollar to pay for cheap imports. And today, we have a whole industry, a whole industry, a whole industry, because it can't compete with the outside world, it can't compete with countries like China, even worse with the aggressor country of Russia. When the world has accepted sanctions, Russia continues to sell its products in our country. Dear colleagues, the "will of the people" MPs want to be heard. If Ukraine doesn't determine the course. If one of the basic principles of Ukraine does not determine national security, except the restoration of an army, the principles of supporting a national producer, it will be the only way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u11	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u12	Rich countries have become rich only because for decades and centuries their governments and parliaments have protected domestic industries. If we don't understand with you during the budget process right now and we don't make the right decisions, we're going to get a conservative budget again, a lack of economic development and a conservation of underdevelopment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Kulinić, the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u14	Oleg Kulinich, MP's Rebirth Group. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, a few words about the state budget. First of all, the draft State budget is based on non-existent tax legislation, because the relevant changes to the Tax Code have not yet been adopted and we do not understand why the main mass of articles will be financed. Secondly, we translate into local budgets the maintenance of public education institutions, such as health institutions and other institutions. If the work of an educated person is decided on the basis of a state subsidy, the salaries of the technical staff will be on the shoulders of the local budgets along with other expenses. For example, the city's area value, as the variant of Mirrod, is an additional 16.2 million dollars a year. In general, the government is transferring about 30 billion dollars to local budgets, and the main thing is how to solve the problem of energy bills. Because government subsidies will go not directly to the communities, but through district budgets. Local communities need additional resources, and the main resource is land. For the third year in a row, we've been talking about land transfer outside the population. The bill, which solves this problem – 4355 – has been passed by a committee and is ready to vote in a session room, only the political will of Parliament is needed. So I want to go personally to the leaders of all factions, to non-fractional MPs, if we're really in favour of decentralization, if we're for strong and prosperous communities, we have to confirm this through a successful vote. Now, unfortunately, there's a lot of speculation around this bill. So I'd like to address you personally, Andrija Volodymyrovich, as speaker, let's get this process right and vote in the session room next plenary week. With regard to the support of agriculture, the government is offering 3 billion dollars of real support instead of 30 dollars at the expense of a special one. We think the agrarian guard should stay. There is also a need to increase the financing of loan spending programs, the acquisition of technology for small and medium -sized farmers, the support of livestock, gardening, and agriculture. Well, as for the land market, the position of the MP's rebirth group. In the session room, I think everyone understands that the moratorium will not be lifted next year because the Land Circumstances Act has not entered into force and its Parliament is not ready. The moratorium should be recorded when small and medium-sized farmers are able to compete with large companies and the government needs to work on it. Instead of the constitutional extension of the moratorium year after year, I propose that all factions of Parliament unite around the road map of changes in land legislation. And when we actually do that, the question of the moratorium will fall away on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laschka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our political power requires the President, the government and the parliamentary majority to immediately consider a bill in Parliament and to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land as a minimum by 2020. The relevant bill of deputies from the Radical Party faction was registered in April of this year. We demand his immediate consideration in Parliament. The Radical Party opposes the sale of land. All those who talk about selling agricultural land are people who don't care about Ukraine, people who don't know Ukrainian history, Ukrainian classics who don't care about the present generation of Ukrainians and who don't realize the consequences of their actions for our future Ukraine. Ukrainian land is not just a product they want to make out of today's bourgeois oligarchic comprador. Ukrainian land is a sacral question for every Ukrainian. Remember the classics that you attended in Ukrainian school: "Brother to brother goes abroad with a axe." Remember another classic: "Whose land? - Kalytina. "Whose land? - Kalytina. If today we sell Ukrainian lands, Ukrainian peasants, their children, grandchildren, and great - grandchildren will be batrified on this earth. It will not be run by Ukrainians. When the authorities speak of selling the land, an investor will come to this land. You're lying! If the land market is put in place, not an investor will come, but a robber from a large road that takes three copies, free of charge in the land of the destitute, will earn billions, Ukrainian peasants will be hungry, cold, and poor. In addition, the authorities want to start selling land from the land of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, which is nearly 400,000 throughout Ukraine. We're definitely against this, we've prepared drafts and we're going to propose: the land of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences to spoil and distribute them to the employees of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the veterans of agricultural work who have spent their entire lives in the village and today have no pie. In addition, we require the government in the budget next year to return to farmers, agrarians, farmers with VAT security, to provide credit programs for the restoration of livestock, for vegetation, for the creation of jobs in the countryside. Let those who want to sell Ukrainian land dry their hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u17	Thank you. National Deputy Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I am certainly, along with the faction, welcome the transition of the agenda on the basis of the subject: each sessional day is a subject. But I want to ask you, who agreed with the hall today, who agreed with the factions on the subject that is going up today? There is no doubt that ecology is an essential way of doing our work. And today, Law 3445 on the protection of fauna and flora under international agreements. Dear friends! But no one would mind. Well, today we're going to have to bring Ukrainians into the Red Book soon, and if at a time when people are just yelling, when they're knocking at all doors, we're going to be looking at the laws on flora and fauna, well, not looking at housing services, energy, not looking at land issues, it's just going to have to be completely inadequate. Do you understand? And Parliament today sees Ukrainian society as inadequate, unable to present a problem at the moment and unable to give people a solution. I have a letter in my hand right now. Her last name is Larionova. And these are the thousands of letters coming to us today. There's been a massive confiscation of housing for non-payment of residential services. And this is one letter that I just took with me. And that's why I insist that it is now determined that on the fourth day in the Supreme Council, there will be a tariff on Thursday, a day dedicated to the adoption of our Law, the Fatherland, 5059: a ban on the confiscation of housing. What are we doing?Oh, my God! In addition, we have a temporary investigation commission to look at the corruption of Groysman, Yatzenyuk, what they did at NAC Naftogazi, what they did in Crushing and what they do in all the companies that today are collecting subsidies from people and people are not allowing them to live. Besides, I'd like to report to all the agrarians of the country right now. And I hope that Thursday will also be about the agrarian question. The Fatherland faction, unless the Act on the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of land is passed, we announce a convention of signatures to hold an all-U.S. referendum on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land. In addition, we now claim that our team, Fatherland, together with farmers all over the country, is creating district and central anti-reriding headquarters, which is happening today with agricultural land. Only Kirovgrad: over 3,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u19	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u20	More than 3,000 raids of farmland. And all of this is about how the earth will become a commodity. We need to immediately change the order of the day from the secondary issues in the front row. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put two bills to the vote immediately: the extension of the moratorium on land sales and the prohibition of the confiscation of housing for the non-payment of utility services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u21	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Babak, Self-Help faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u22	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Ten days later, the heating season begins. At these high prices, everyone expects the heat to be delivered on time. And that's what the Ukrainians say: "It'll be warm in the houses. It'll be warm in school." And do you know, do you realize that the financial crisis in Ukraine's heat energy is getting enormously large and large. The situation is almost absurd around these enterprises by the discriminatory positions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the terms of the contracts imposed by these enterprises and the regulatory acts of the commission. What are we talking about? There is no single gas price today. None. Forget about the price they've been telling everyone. A thousand dollars more is the price of gas for budgetary organizations. Heat energy is now required to make contracts for the purchase of gas from Naftogazu at a price of a thousand dollars more than for the population to give heat to the budget: schools, gardens, hospitals. But Nazcomisi did not set tariffs for heat, taking into account such a fierce difference in gas prices. There is no heat tariff today to reflect the new price of gas. Your Honor, what's going on? Businesses must give a warm welcome to schools today, but they cannot plan for a preconceived activity. This issue has to be resolved urgently. Today, it is completely ignored that 18 billion is the debt of heat before Naftogaz. Of these, 4.4 billion are just fines, which increased by almost 1 billion this year. It's only this year! And it's in debt on the 12th, the 13th, the 14th. These debts will not be dissipated by themselves, there must be a complex restructuring. The president noticed this law, but it should be replaced by another then. Otherwise it's impossible to remove more than 80 percent of consumer spending in favour of Naftogazu, and it's killing the entire sector. The heat will be gone in time, it will be today, but it will no longer be at the end of the heating season with such a situation. Ladies and gentlemen, subsidies. You know that the government’s debt of subsidies, which today amount to about a billion dollars, includes fines and pennies, which are bound by a contract for heat. The difference in tariffs. The government doesn't see it, but the protocols with the wet seals of the district commissions are 1.6 billion dollars, but they're not seen, but there's new and new fines. Ladies and gentlemen, "The Self-Help Union" calls on the government to convene an open-ended, expanded cabinet of ministers with the participation of city mayors, all of them: large, small, warm-up enterprises, members of the professional committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u23	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u24	which invest in the thermal infrastructure today and cannot take money because of the existence of these distribution accounts, in order to make immediate decisions and do everything to stop the growth of the financial crisis that has been created in the area of the livelihood of our population, the area of heat supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, statements by MPs and groups have been completed. We're moving on to the agenda. We have the first draft of Decree (5060) on the order of the daily session of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Colleagues, in two minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process and I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Please have the Supreme Council Secretariat invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall, and we will now move on to making decisions. Please. At this time, I will read out the announcements that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association for the preservation of the lives of people on the road in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Didenko Igor Anatoliyovich, was elected head of this association. Next announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional MPs Union, the Interfractional Anti-Occupying Union, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected national deputies: Levus Andrija Marjanović, Artushenko Igor Andriyovich, Princely Mikola Leonidovich. And the final announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union for Rural Development in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, River Andrija Alexandrovich, was elected head of this association. I received another announcement. I'm informing you of the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Party's deputy faction "Block of Peter Poroshenko", Lucenko Irina Stepanovna and Berezenko Sergey Ivanovich as the deputy leader of the Party of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Welcome to all your colleagues. And let's move on to the first project -- the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the Conciliation Board of Deputies was discussing a draft agenda for the fifth session of the Supreme Council on the eighth call. All the proposals made by the heads of factions during the Conciliation Council, all the proposals made by the committees, are included in this draft regulation. We have, like, two weeks in a row around this issue. But I would like to point out that we can't go over any of the questions in the first reading until we've confirmed the order of the day session or at least the order of the day is weekly. And so, colleagues, I'm sure all the factions have come to know each other. And I suggest that I exchange my thoughts for a minute, if there are any warnings, and go to the vote. Let me remind you, in the last few weeks, we've put three proposals to the vote: the order of the day session as a whole; the next proposal is the weekly agenda; and another proposal is all the questions that are registered at this point. I ask that the heads of the factions speak for a minute. And then let's move on to making decisions. I would like to point out that this question does not require a normal procedure. So, then, which of the factions would like to speak? From Peter Dustenk's Block. Who's from Peter Dust? King, King of Peter Dust. One minute, Victor King, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u27	Thank you. In general, the faction will support that bill of order in the daytime, but there are observations. The Committee on Law Enforcement took a look at its meeting and heard information from the Attorney General, the Head of the National Police on the state of crime in the State and presented it with support to all members of the Committee and to all those present who were members of the committee meeting, a proposal in the form of a Supreme Council decision on specific, real actions to the local councils, to the Cabinet of Ministers on the use of measures to monitor the work of law enforcement authorities. So I ask you to include this decree, Cosmequin will now call it, and consider it in this order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! We need to vote in favour of this bill because the agenda has to be approved, and we have to work in the session room. In particular, I call on the honourable presiding officer to include in the agenda of the day a very important bill on the regime for the confiscation of money stolen by the Yanukovic regime. This is the principle position of the People's Front. And voting for this bill will show who is really a patriot in this room and who is just yelling about false patriotism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u30	Thank you. I would like to point out that this bill, like all the other faction proposals included in the agenda of this session, is a session. The specific confiscation bill is in the project. Please Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I would like to thank you for the fact that today there are very important industrial bills that will allow Ukrainians to get jobs, pay, increase budget revenues, and thus make our country a richer, stronger country. With regard to the order of the day, the Radical Party faction supports the draft Order of the Day since our proposals are included there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u32	Who else would like to come forward, colleagues? Please, Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Our faction supported the idea of including all issues that were registered on the day of the application. But we ask because three of our bills were later registered for two days: 5136 is a bill on judicial reform, 5183 is a bill on displaced persons and 5195 is a bill on regulation in the field of fishing and other activities. The water industry to keep them involved, and we will be happy to maintain this order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Self-help. "The Opposition Block." Opposition Block, Storm. Please, Igor Shurma. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u35	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We're speaking today's position of the Opposition Block faction on issues that will be put to the vote. As the opposition force in the next room, we bring to the attention of the audience, as well as Ukrainian citizens, that the Opposition Block will always support those bills that benefit the state and benefit citizens rather than suffer from such bills. As for the agenda, the Opposition Block will abstain from voting for the agenda, because I want to stress, chronically, that during all plenary sessions, there are no dozens of laws proposed by the Opposition Block that deal with the social protection of the country, the development of the economy. And as long as we ignore the proposals of the Opposition Block, from which the state and people will benefit, we will abstain from voting for such an order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. In a minute, the decision will be made. Please come into the hall. Anyone else want to come forward? Colleagues? Then please. I'm going to make a proposal to take this decision as a whole. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? So first of all, I'm going to make this decision, which is now registered, which is in everyone's hands, and then with your amendments. Colleagues, I'm putting the ruling to a vote. Colleagues, are they all in place? Can we vote? I put to the vote Order (5060) on the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account the proposals that the King and Deputy Sergei Sobolev made under the transcript. With the amendments that have been made to the transcript, I am voting on the decree as a whole. Well, I just said, well, Andrew, come on, be careful. I just said, with the amendments that two people made. Number. Mr. King, call the number. Number? Tell me the number and I'll tell you. 5198. The King’s decree is 5198. Ready? Colleagues who support this decision as a whole, please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:44:51]] For-191 My colleagues, I'm stressing one important thing to you, we can't go to important bills, including on environmental issues, including industrial policy, if we don't establish the order of the day at least weekly. Now I'm going to put to the vote the weekly agenda, and I very much ask you to support all of you, because as chairman, I have no right to go over the issues if we don't approve at least the weekly agenda. So I put to the vote the following sentence: to maintain the order of the weekly session, as we did last week. Who supports this proposal, colleagues, please vote and please support, colleagues, please support. Please vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[10:45:52]] For-200 Dear colleagues, in this case, do we have the potential for a weekly? Once again, I'll put it again, they haven't been able to vote. My colleagues, I'm asking you very much. Please, Greens, one minute to explain your position. Please, Igor Green, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u37	I'm calling all the deputies again: calm down, don't walk around the hall, let's vote the agenda for this week and start working. We all vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u38	Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to maintain the order of the day session proposed for this week. Everyone, please take your jobs. Please support everyone. So whoever supports this proposal, please vote and please support. Please, colleagues, carefully, I ask you to maintain the agenda, we vote for colleagues, please. [[10:47:39]] For 213 Colleagues, since I can't continue this meeting, I have two options: either call a break, or just a minute to exchange our thoughts. Please, in the same order. Maxim Burbak, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Once again, I appeal to everyone: let us not hinder the work of the Supreme Council and make it impossible to make important state decisions. We, as factions of the People's Front, as responsible statesmen's factions, vote for the entire agenda, and for the week to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. So I support my colleague Greeneva, we sit in places, we don't go around the hall, and we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction supports the first decision to include everyone without excluding the bills that have been registered to date in the agenda. We can't support the ruling for a week because it's taken against the Supreme Council's Order, which was adopted on March 17th to carry out the agreements reached with Mr. Cox's Mission, where it's written that a weekly order of daily bills of all factions are being drawn up without excluding proportionally their numbers. Either we make these decisions, our own, or then the opposition to the country's own laws will be outside the legislative process. I ask not to vote on the weekly agenda because it fully discriminates against opposition factions in the formation of the agenda. Please vote on the entire order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u42	Who else would like to speak? Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u43	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Once again, I remind you of the principle of the opposition block faction: we will always be in the hall supporting those bills, regardless of who the author is, if he, this bill, benefits the state and if people benefit from it. During the long period of time, the Opposition Block has passed dozens of bills that protect our people from the troubles that are in everyday life. We've introduced a bill that deals with economic development. In principle, our bills are not viewed. The "opposite block" says this: we'll be holding back from the order of the day until they ask our questions for consideration. And as for today's decision, don't worry, the national deputies and listeners of today's session, we've voted 29 times, we've voted only three times, the 26th time we've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that there is no normal procedure for this ruling, and I can put it to the vote as much as I need. If you pay attention, too, on personnel matters, when there was a question in the courts, and if we don't get a positive vote, I'm just going to have to announce a break for consultations with the factions' heads. Now I'm going to re-vote the two proposals that have been made in this room. The first is a decision in general with proposals made by the King and Sobolev. The second is a weekly review. I'm going to put two proposals in this sequence right now. I'm asking my colleagues to prepare for the vote, and now I'm going to put these proposals one by one to the vote. So the first one. I am voting on the draft Order 5060 on the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account the proposals made under the transcript by Sergey Soboljev, and by the deputy of the King who made the call. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. The King. Please, King, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain to you the point of the matter. The Supreme Council Committee discussed the state of crime in an open session with the media. There were professional approaches based on Decree 5193, which we propose this week to include in the agenda of the session, not to delay, there are very important measures, a professional approach. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u46	So I'm going to be the first to make a total of 5060, as a whole, as amended. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:53:37]] For 217 Thank you. I would like to make the following suggestion: to maintain the weekly agenda with the inclusion of the King's proposal in the agenda this week. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:54:10]] For 224 Two votes. We didn't make it, I see. I'll do it again, colleagues. Two votes is not enough, I'll put it again. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote again, the vote is a week's turn with the amendment that the King made to the transcript. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Two votes is not enough. I don't think I've got time to vote. Please support the weekly schedule with the proposal of the King's deputy. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:54:51]] For 225 One voice. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see that, Svetlana. I can see it! Mr. Ivan! Colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Colleagues! Colleagues, I ask you, first of all, to calm down and tell you, when we pass the law, I put one, at most, twice on the return. There is no classical consideration on personnel matters or on matters of this kind. So, colleagues, I'm voting when there's not one or two votes left. And I want to remind you, not so long ago, five days ago, when the question of judges came up and it was 224, I put it 15 times. Was that the way it was in the hall? And that was not a violation of the Rules. It wasn't a violation of the Rules, colleagues! When there's one vote missing, and I can see when the hands are raised in the room that haven't been able to vote, I'm going to put it again, because the procedure allows that. And so, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote this proposal, which has won the largest number of votes, to maintain the order of the day session for this week with a proposal that was made by the King's stenographer. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote so that we can continue to work so that we can unlock our work. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:56:26]] For 223 Colleagues, we can have a private discussion, and we can keep it open. If I put two more of these together, would that be right? Colleagues, well, I'll bet you two again. Now, let me get this straight with our lawyers, just one second. Colleagues, I've made it clear with the lawyers: I'm not supposed to go back, I'm betting on the vote again. The MPs are up, I'm going to make two proposals again, as it was. So I'm the first to put the proposal, the attention on the spot. This is Decree 5060 with the proposals that the Sobolev and the King made. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. 5060 in total, all of it, for the whole session at first, the first vote for the entire session, then it'll be a week. Who supports the entire session with the suggestions that have been made, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:57:56]] For 217 The decision is not made. I'll bet you the next offer. The weekly schedule with the offer of the King and Andrew Cosemykin with this offer for a week. Colleagues, let's not play with these questions, because both committees and factions have been preparing the agenda for weeks, and I stress, the committees, and then we're irresponsiblely refusing to be able to adopt these laws. I ask very much for a week with a proposal made by the King. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[10:58:46]] For 223 I'll bet again. I'll do it again, colleagues. 223 votes, colleagues. Do we have three more votes, colleagues? I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll put it again, colleagues, that proposal that is close to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, I'm addressing the factions: invite the deputies into the hall, and, Secretariat, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We don't have enough votes to make a decision. Three votes, colleagues! Guys, can I put on a weekly? Three votes. Once again, I place the weekly schedule of the day’s session with a proposal made by the King and Cosmackin under the transcript. Whoever supports this decision, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Please, colleagues, carefully vote on the weekly schedule. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please come into the hall and vote. Please support the King's weekly schedule. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:00:11]] For 225 A vicious circle. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Then there's Berezuk. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u47	Tymoshenko, Fatherland. I would like to draw the attention of the citizens of Ukraine to what is now happening in the hall. In fact, today our faction is trying to do its utmost to include in the agenda bills that relate to tariffs that apply to the prohibition of the confiscation of housing for residential services, the extension of the moratorium on land sales. And this is the order of the day that blocks Peter Dustenka. Because there's only a week's schedule where there's no bill that applies to people, and there's lobby laws for privatization, tax benefits for certain corporations, which is why Block of Petra Poroshenko gives 117 votes or 107 votes. And for that agenda that includes bills for people, they give 70 to 80 votes. That's how people's interests come about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u48	Please, Oleg Berezuk. Huh?Oh, my God! He doesn't. Colleagues! Irina Heratschenko, one minute, and we go to the vote. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! You know, it's just that there's a national MP up at the rostrum, and I'm not going to call it a last name, but he's very fond of talking about boys on the front. And I said frankly, I will not vote for this, because you do not put my laws into the order of the day. You know, when one MP tries to blackmail the entire parliament, they probably wouldn't have taken it very well on the front. Let's focus with you, please, and vote for the agenda. Because otherwise it's just a shame when we've been walking for a week, some have been in "foreign districts" and not in the session room, and now we can't vote for the basics for the agenda. Let's stop now, please, blackmailing the session hall. And let's vote for getting started. I call everyone to a constructive position. And stop blackmailing the session hall. Thank you very much. Otherwise we'll start calling the names of whoever's blackmailing the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Colleagues, last performance from the Opposition Block. And we're moving on to another vote. Please, Debenkov, right? Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honourable Colleagues! Well, to be honest, it's a funny painting again. The Supreme Council can't find the votes again. Where's the coalition? Where's the majority? Everyone said it was necessary to vote on the bills that were important to society. The agenda is not just a formality, it is the direction of the legislative body. What directions are proposed? The sale of agricultural land, privatization of enterprises and special confiscation is a strategy of the current government. They can't think of anything new. We therefore vote in favour of the moratorium, housing and utility services, for the moratorium on the promotion and revision of housing and utility tariffs and for the repeal of those barbaric anti-social laws adopted in the current budget code. In this case, only a vote may be taken. And what is being proposed now is utopian policy. Even if you get 25 votes, it's just surprising, it's the norm -- no one's looking at it -- by the vote a few times! And the treatment of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules is quite specific, sir. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u52	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the issue of the ruling can be put to the vote as many times as it is necessary. It's a very trivial and simple situation: we can't go into the law. And so, colleagues, I'm asking you to get ready to take up jobs. I'm going to make an offer that lacked one vote. I'm putting to the vote a motion to approve the order of the day for a week with a proposal made by the King's stenographer. For a week with the King's offer, I ask you to vote. Please approach your workplaces, do not be distracted, and please support, colleagues, the weekly schedule with the King's offer. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, support. Please vote. [[11:05:04]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you for your support, colleagues. I hope next week we're all billed, we'll be able to include in the ruling, and we'll finally take over the entire Order 5060. Now we have a block of environmental policy, first reading. Dear colleagues, we have about ten questions about this block. I'm asking you to adjust to the system's work. A great deal of work was done by both the committee and the minister. Minister present at the meeting. When necessary, we will give you our word, Mr. Ostap. And I ask that we go to intensive work to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund (No.4551). And I'm voting on the motion to consider it with a reduced procedure. Who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote, please support, colleagues. Short-term procedure, please vote. [[11:06:26]] For 203 Decision taken. And I'll bet on it. I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich. Mr. Ostap, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in fact, today is an important day and this is confirmation that environmental policy is becoming a priority for Ukraine, for Ukrainian politics. And I thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parbia, for having conducted this kind of policy in Parliament. And there are more than 10 bills in order today, and I hope it's the first step and it'll go on. In the meantime, you have been presented with a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund, developed by the Ministry of Ecology. The proposed project aims to address the issue of the transfer of powers from the territorial authorities of the central executive body in the field of environmental protection to the Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations. In the course of administrative reform, the territorial authorities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection have been eliminated, and their powers have been transferred to the regional Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administrations, with the exception of those provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. As a result of such a coalition, it makes it impossible to implement state policy in the field of conservation, and the management of the natural resources of the natural and natural resources of the trust fund and much more difficult. which has a negative impact on the local economy and business, contributes to increasing social tension among the local population and so on. Taking into account the above, the adoption of these changes will ensure the implementation of State policy in the field of conservation. This bill was supported by the Parliament’s Committee of Profiles. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and approve in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich to report. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, is proposed. As Ostap Mikhajlovich said, this law has been corrected by a coalition that has passed the Act amending certain legislative acts to optimize the powers of executive authorities in the field of environmental and environmental resources, including at the local level. So for the moment, this is going to be rectified, and I would like to support it. Next. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading. The Committee on Prevention of Corruption concluded that the draft act did not reveal corruptive factors. The Budget Committee notes that the bill has a direct impact on budgetary indicators and can increase income in part of the budget institutions' own revenue. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the first reading, that it be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Also, I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u56	Thank you very much. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please record. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help Unit will support this legislative initiative. But taking advantage of the opportunity that the minister of ecology and natural resources is present today, he wanted to give you another shocking problem that has to do with regulation. In April of this year, the Cabinet changed the procedure for granting special permits for the use of nagrams. From now on, domestic producers have to go to a general auction to obtain permission to produce clay for their own needs. I note that 99 percent of the clay market today belongs to the sole company of the United Minerals Group. No auctions were held this year. The next auction is scheduled for December only. And this Kabminu decree stipulates that 240 days will be allowed for the auction. Everything is done in order for Ukrainian ceramic market producers to go and buy clay in the only daughter oligarch. Kabmin’s actions threaten Ukrainian manufacturers, the entire ceramic market, such as the Kharkiv Tile Plant, which is a reduction in production volumes, and a reduction in jobs. We can talk about dozens of beautiful phrases about stimulating production, industrial development, but that's exactly what kills the Ukrainian producer. And this is a reduction in exports, a decrease in the flow of currency into the state and, as a result, a further pressure on the national currency. We require the government, the minister of ecology and natural resources to intervene immediately in this situation in order to allow the operators of the ceramic market to be able to produce clay for their own needs in a closed cycle. And the second. Finally, according to the State Service Act, there was a competition for the head of the State Geology Service and the nadar of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich gives Yvchen a word, please. Please, Ivchenko, microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u59	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I'm surprised by our lack of systems. Remember, the law that was passed in Yanukovitch's time on the amendment to the Nature Fund Act, where we cancelled the mandate. Today the government is looking for, and to whom can it be delegated? There's no organ -- let's hand it over to the state administrations. Colleagues! First of all, Vera Ulyanchenko: "The Landing" is Yanukovich, the command of one person. The other one. The city head of Butchi, who takes 40 acres [40 ha]. Next, the forest is cut down in the Dnipropetre, and people worth ten acres [10 ha] are put under construction. Please. Next, the forest is illegally cut in Kharkish. And so on and so on and so forth. On one side. And by one person's orders, the heads of the district government. On the one hand, we have to protect the nature-commanding fund, so we're going to suggest that we don't hand over the laws of Janukovic to the district government, we're going to abolish the law of Janukovich -- it's going to be systematic -- and we're going to hand these powers over to the central executive authority, who's going to be responsible for the nature-commanding fund, for the forests, and it's going to be a true, systematic policy. And then look at the bill that you're proposing, the MP from the BPT faction is today proposing to take the special use of COVV. Right? That's right! And these are the bills you're proposing to give back to the COVV. Where's the system? For which law it is better to vote: for the law of Ribacca or for the law of the government. I propose that we reject this law once. The other one. They've prepared a system-wide bill on the natural-intelligence fund. And the third. The bill was repealed, which was passed during Janukovich's time and gave the heads of administration authority over the distribution of forests and natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u61	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Please hand over Ostap to Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! This bill is completely technical. Just so you can understand my predecessor's speech, who's just been speaking and accusing you of something that's not clear. Just now, the previous reporter suggested that the Ministry of Nature's territorial departments be set up in every area, these corruption monsters, if you remember, were in every area, fighting, bribes, they had functions: expanding, creating a natural-invention fund, and so on. When we eliminated them, the functions were lost. Now some of the environmental functions are passed on to district government administrations, environmental departments, and we've forgotten about the functions of the natural-intelligence fund, and there's actually a conflict that we're proposing to settle under the bill. I think it's a perfectly quality government-issued bill, he. It can be accepted and should be accepted as a whole, and the issues of conservation areas should be effectively addressed, particularly at the local level. Because when we write that we need a reserve to create, develop project documentation, organize round tables in areas, the administration says, sorry, we don't have these functions in the law, we can't do that. And the law says, "territorial divisions," which are not there, physically does not exist. So let's settle this conflict and continue to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u64	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The transfer of environmental functions is, of course, an important issue, but the issue is not absent, so let us say, functions to date. Let us tell the truth, the issue lies in the redistribution of financial flows, and this is the most important issue that needs to be addressed in environmental issues. We have tried to raise this particular issue in terms of the environment, as it must be addressed in the State today. That is, environmental payments must remain at the facilities that are the most polluted of the environment today; in those regions that are most affected by the environment; and in those that bear the burden: they breathe fresh air. Today, this whole train, which we are carrying out in transfer, so to speak, is opening up the moment that we see: there is absolutely no incentive for industrial enterprises to engage in environmental activities; there is absolutely no incentive for self-government to engage in this environment. But the main thing is for the top, for the government centre, there is no incentive. It is true that the more smoky human settlements the more the region smokes, the more payments are made to central authorities and central sources, and the more advantageous the redistribution of these funds. And the ascension for the redeployment of functions begins. Therefore, if we really want to solve the problem of ecology, let us take precisely the points that we now have today that are catastrophic, threatening to our people, to allocate funds to this cause, and above all, the means that these regions pay, let alone the central source of funding, and to solve this sinister problem rather than the ping-pong game: to whom more to assign functions to, to whom less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in one minute. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. One minute, Ostap Semerak. One minute, Ostap Semerak. And in a minute, we'll be on our way. Mr. Ostap, I'm sorry. One minute and then Semerak. Illenko. I'm sorry. I'm asking you to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wanted to refer to my colleagues and to the Supreme Council. Since today's environmental day, these are really, really important bills, we really have to do this. And that's why I want to ask you a question. Why do we not consider in second reading our Freedom Bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have free access to the coastline of water objects for general use? I want to say that this was a first-reading law in February 2015. A few weeks later, the committee decided that it could be approved in a second reading and in general. And now this law has not been put to the vote for a year and a half. And that's very important because it allows our citizens to use water objects, not like this -- everything is surrounded by fences, armed security and so on. Because it's also a matter of ecology, it's a question that Ukrainians have to be able to use our natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u67	Thank you. I would like to point out that the agenda on environmental issues is submitted by the Committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please, Ostap Semerak, one minute, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u68	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the quality and concise discussion. I'm actually asking you to support this bill at least on the first reading. The observations the Fatherland faction makes, they obviously deserve attention, but the implementation of these observations will take at least a year, because we're going to have to create district administrations, find rooms, find people after the competition, and in the meantime we have a gap in the implementation of legislation. I'd like to support the government in this bill and then together discuss the possibility of implementing "Paternity", a faction of a proposal that we might actually find comfortable, but as long as we implement it, there will be a gap in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'm voting now. And even though I have a proposal from the committee -- on the whole -- but given that there was a discussion in the hall and there were warnings, I'm just going to lay the groundwork. As the minister said. Colleagues, I'll base it. Please be supportive. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Inventory Fund (for environmental protection powers) (No. 4551) as a basis, a colleague. Colleagues, are we all ready to vote? Leonid Yemen! Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:21:43]] For 229 229 for. Decision taken. We're stopping at that. Thank you, committee, for your second reading of productive work, for your speedy work. And we're moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Strengthening of the Protection of Economies) (number 1769). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please, who supports the summary procedure, please vote. [[11:22:28]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, the bill is a complement to the previous bill presented by the minister, and similarly he's handing over the functions that we now have, to the local district government administrations. The bill is pretty well written, I would like to support it in the first reading, in fact, as our committee decided, some of the committee's deputies had technical comments. But what I want to say is that this is actually one of the bills that asked me, in particular, to support the environmental community, because in areas where activists ask or ask the district government to take care of creating a new conservation facility, to organize some discussions, round tables, reconciliation, reconciliation and so on, district government administrations refer to the law and say that this is not settled, because the law everywhere links organs to the places of the central executive authority, in fact, our ministry. All the technical issues in this bill we agree on, we provide them with the necessary functions and powers to carry out this activity, it's technical, and that's essentially going to add, in particular, to the reserve and solve a lot of problems on the ground, including with activists and with the public. So please support the first reading as a basis. And like the previous bill, we will take into account the proposals and observations of all the factions of Parliament and will consider it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u71	Thank you for the brief report, Mr. Ednak. And I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. From factions. Then, if our honourable minister is willing to respond in the same way to the discussion of the bill, we, Mr. Ostap, will give you a minute after the discussion. There's a record coming through, dear fellows. Please, from the Fatherland faction, Mr. Abdullin is conveying the word to the leader of the faction, Mrs. Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, you will not find any developed country where the conservation fund is handled by local authorities. In general, the creation of reserves, the care of conservation zones, the protection of conservation zones in all the normal countries is a national function of central authorities. Bills that are now being adopted are being adopted in the context of sales, including land that belongs to reserves. I understand why Yanukovich did this. He needed a "Megirrhea," and he needed a "Death," which the governor signed with one stroke of a feather. But I don't understand why the Supreme Council of Democratic Ukraine does this, leaving mega-corruption at the local level. And in principle, at the local level, it is impossible for the entire country to formulate a strategy for the existence and protection of the conservation fund. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u73	I've got the position. Please, Mr. Podlisecki of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u74	I give the floor to Jaroslav Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u75	Please turn on Jaroslav Markevich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u76	The Self-Help faction supports this bill. We'll vote him on the first reading. We note that we welcome novels such as the ban on the selective shooting of animals in natural reserves. Well, decentralization takes place in return for functions that have fallen out and transfer them to the territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Mr. Markevich. Dear colleagues! Only two factions spoke. Are there other factions willing to express their position on this bill? Two other deputies have not signed up. The representatives of the factions are raising their hands, "Peter Prashenko's Block", first raised by Mr. Neda. I'll give Mr. Neda a phone, oh, I'm sorry, please. And from the People's Front faction, the people's MP raises the factions as well. And also a hand. Please, Ned's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u78	Thank you for the word. I want to say that when a law was passed whereby the central executive authorities were deprived of territorial units, they could not perform their functions. And so to solve this, these functions need to be passed on or given authority to local authorities, or made a new center. the authorities. That's why I support and we're going to support this law after the transfer of authority, because it's a very urgent question, it needs to be addressed. I'm going to say that local self-governments now have 80 percent, 80 percent of the total environmental fund. And they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u79	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u80	They also have the resources to carry out these powers, and they have both a sufficient state and a sufficient skill. This is to be done, and this law needs to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u81	Thank you to the distinguished representative of WFP. And please, from the People's Front, Mr. Unguryan. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon, everyone! We started a working week today with draft legislation aimed at improving Ukraine's environmental status. Of course, the questions raised about the protection of air, the protection of water, depend directly on how many industrial giants will put into their gear. But another important element is, of course, the formation of eco- and natural-invention funds. I think that the first reading of this bill deserves support, because an important element is added to the list of objects inside the PfP, and the moment of entry into the territory of the PfP objects is organized and decentralized. That's why I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u83	Give me 15 seconds to complete the People's Front position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u84	In this regard, it is suggested that he be supported in the first reading. If there's a question, and they really are, we'll be able to work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u85	In the course of the discussion, the leadership of the profile committee came up and wanted to make such a trailer with regard to the comments made during the presentation of the Fatherland faction. Please turn on Mr. Ribak's microphone and then the summary word, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we do have a warning from the Fatherland factions, a warning from the point of view of the use of natural resources and the acceptance of all permits by the local authorities. So what I'd like to say is, let's really make this a good suggestion, to the second reading on the committee, we're going to work on the part of water use, water use, we're going to write just the thing in Bill 3603, that we're going to be looking at today, part of the regional management based on the pool principle. We support it and we'll work it out for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u87	Thank you for the committee's position. Please turn on the microphone for the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The Ministry of the Environment of Natural Resources supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading. We would like to point out that this bill amends several laws: the first is about Ukraine's environmental network, about hunting and hunting, and about the natural-invention fund. Those comments that were made during the discussion, I'm sure the committee will be able to take into account when preparing for the second reading. But that lack of legislation, which today makes it somewhat impossible for both the central authority and the district administrations to work effectively, requires the adoption of this law. So we'd like to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, take up jobs, and let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please move on to decision-making, take up jobs. I would like to stress that this bill is only proposed on a basis. All warnings that might have been included in the second reading. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for strengthening the protection of the economy) (number 1769) as a basis, colleagues, as a basis. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the ground. [[11:33:24]] For 247 247 for. Decision taken. I welcome the committee, the authors, and I wish you a fruitful second reading. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the implementation of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wildlife and Wildlife and Natural Environments in Europe) (number 2023). Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please vote, summary procedure. [[11:34:14]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the committee's report, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Mr. Ostap, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u90	Fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, the committee discussed a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the implementation of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe). I want to say that as early as 1996, Ukraine had probably adopted one of the most important international environmental conventions in Europe — the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe known as the Berne Convention and, consequently, Ukrainian environmental laws need to be brought into line with international European legislation. Thus, the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of rare species of animals and plants that have been introduced into the Berne Convention. The bill specifies the conditions for imports into and exports to Ukraine outside the animal world, the requirements for compensation for damage caused by the animal world, and the protection of the animal and plant world during the production of timber. Legislation on how to define limits for the special use of natural resources in natural reserves, biosphere reserves, and national natural parks is also clarified. So, honourable colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill on the basis of the fact that the committee has made a similar decision, so I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would go to the hall with such a request, look, very busy agenda, then we have a very heavy block, industry and entrepreneurship, industrial parks. I would ask that maybe we should work harder, take the word when there is really an active position in principle so that we can go through the bills more intensively, that's my request and appeal to the hall. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Thank you. Danielne Vladislav Yuriovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u92	Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I would like to thank you and the members of the Supreme Council for taking this initiative to this very day to consider environmental safety issues. The other one. However, I would like to pay attention once again to all the deputies to become active and to be present in the hall so that we can actually work productively today. At the same time, by referring to the bill that we are currently considering, 2023, it must definitely be voted on, the People's Front faction will vote for it. Quite serious things are in this bill and quite important points. Those that we don't even know about or understand what the problem is, but are quite relevant are the approaches that are set out in this bill. In particular, I would like to point out that there are, for example, specific requirements for the education of executives who manage the facilities. A natural-intelligence fund. Nonsense, but today we have this situation, we have people not without education, but we have people who don't understand the ecology at all, and we don't understand how to approach it. Therefore, a great request is made for every MP to be in place and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u94	Thank you. Markevich Ruslan Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u95	The Self-Help faction supports this bill, will vote on the first reading, the only thing we would like to point out is that such a novel as monitoring the dynamics of natural resources requires clarification and, hopefully, between the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u97	Dear Chairman! I beg you to pass the word to Oleg Nedava.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u98	This is a very important bill, aimed at strengthening the protection of rare species of animals and plants that have been introduced into the Berne Convention. In particular, protection is provided for places of existence in forests and the national natural reserves of rare species listed in the Berne Convention. The more protected will be the dolphins, the brown bear, the bats, the black storks, and the spears. The law strengthens the fight against poaching. In accordance with the requirements of the Berne Convention, the Forest Code and the Animal World Act, the natural-intelligence fund of Ukraine for the protection of animals from cruel behaviour, hunting and hunting, and the Code of Administrative Offences. Enterprises, institutions, and organizations and citizens will be obliged to compensate for the damage they have caused as a result of violations of legislation in the field of the protection of the use and reproduction of the animal world. These laws, which we are voting on today, are ecological, very important and impossible to ignore, and need to be supported. Let's go to the first reading and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Rybczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u101	Rybchin Alexei, Fatherland, Doñecina. At last, we started to look at really environmental bills, not bills that would just depreciate nature's reserves. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, but there is a warning of second reading. Much of the changes proposed are already valid: of the 16 proposed 6 have already been made under the law on. Which we accepted back in April 2015. Please take that into account for the second reading. There is no justification for setting up a public commission on limits, no reference to its composition, status, sources of funding. It also needs to be settled. No justification is given for the need for a ban on hayhair by mechanized means in the area of natural reserves. There are things that should be added to the second reading, then this bill can be supported as socially beneficial. And I want to point out that really environmental issues are unpopular in a warring country, but war should not be such a justification for the lack of reform. So thank you for having an environmental day, but other things have to be added, which is what the Fatherland has already said: housing tariffs, energy issues. And I hope we'll be looking at them on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. In fact, all the factions expressed their full willingness to accept in the first reading. And we're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation implementing the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe. I emphasize: only in the first reading. Who supports the proposal in the first reading on the basis, please vote, colleagues. Please vote 2023 as the basis. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:42:42]] For 260 260 for. Decision taken. I welcome the authors and wish you a fruitful second reading. We go to the next bill, 3445, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the protection of fauna and flora under international agreements). And please support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. Vote. [[11:43:24]] For-187 187 for. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich to report. Mr. Paul, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, Bill 3445, introduced by the People’s Deputy Diry, Ribak, and myself, is being considered. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of fauna according to international environmental agreements. The bill amends and conforms to the Berne Convention with the laws of Ukraine: "For the Animal World", "For the Natural and Inventory Fund of Ukraine", "For the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct", "For Hunting and Hunting", "For Drinking Water and Drinking Water." It is also proposed to implement the Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Eurasian Migratory Species of Mooring Birds to supplement article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting, which prohibits hunting with the use of lead scrap on all zones of special treatment in the zone of sanitary protection of drinking water sources (fishing with metal scrap is permitted). The Ukrainian Act of 29 October 1996 on the accession of Ukraine to the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Flora and Flora and Natural Environments in Europe allows for the regulation of the number of wolves in Ukraine only in limited quantities and under control. At the moment, according to the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, wolves are a binary species that are listed simultaneously on the list of hunting animals that are protected during the non-thinking season and rational use and at the same time a list of harmful animals that are subject to destruction during the year, which is a gross violation of the Berne Convention. According to article 33 of this Law, hunting for wolves can take place during hunting for other species of hunting animals in the hunting season and not in the hunting season, with permission. With regard to the above, there is a need to exclude the wolf from the list of pests listed in article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting, leaving it a hunting species that will help to strengthen the fight against poaching and create conditions for hunters to receive money in their budget for the acquisition of a valuable fur beast — the wolf. The bill also prohibits the use of gas, wildlife poisons, the destruction of natural habitats of wild animals (as required by the Berne Convention). And the laws on "The Animal World" and "The Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct" are accordingly added to Article 20 of the Law on Hunting and Hunting and Article 52-1 of the Law on Animal Life on the Prohibition of the Use of Traps, Cold Metal Weapons and so forth. The main scientific and expert management proposes, with the results of the first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis, taking into account the comments and proposals made. The committee then proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and to settle all comments between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Anointed, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u105	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, of course, that the People's Front faction will support this law, as we supported the previous ones, because they're all interconnected, and this Bill 3445, it's really completely new, it makes the term "severe animal treatment" and prohibits animal hunting in the Red Book. So I'm convinced that we're all now, even those who say that bills aimed at strengthening environmental control are not important, I think we're all going to vote in favour of these bills, because we all live in this country and we still need to make legislation better in this direction. I invite everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u107	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, we must support this bill now, because it is essentially technical and brings Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of the Berne Convention, which is ratified by the Ukrainian State. And let's also see who doesn't want to vote for this bill. This bill does not want to vote on people who want to use animals as targets in training in shooting, in competitions, and so forth, they will probably not vote in favour of the bill for those who want to use animals as for photographs in the Christian Church. And that's why I think all the sober-minded people in this room are supporting this bill. Please all support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing statement will now be by Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. So in two minutes, we're going to make a decision. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. And the microphone please include Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u109	Please pass it on to Rybczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u110	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, it's positive, it's in the implementation of European directives, it's also in the implementation of the Berne Convention. But for the second reading, certain standards need to be developed to make them effective. My colleague, who just spoke to me, pointed out that this would help us to fight those people who are simply bullying animals, offering to take pictures with them on the Crusades and in other cities. But with these changes, there may be some difficulty in implementing them, since photo services, as a type of household service, are provided by SDR entities (entities of entrepreneurial activity), photo studios, and so on. When it comes to these people who offer to take pictures with animals on the streets, it is more appropriate to specify the norm by extending it not only to the SDS. That is, until the second reading it must be completed in order for us to really overcome these shameful phenomena. The Fatherland faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to organize a left-hand side for more productive work in the hall. Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I would like to stress that only on the basis of this bill. That is, if there are amendments they can be made to the second reading. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of fauna and flora under international agreements, No. 3445, on the basis of this. Colleagues, based on. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3445 based, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:51:29]] For 256 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. And now, colleagues, the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of European Environmental Standards for the Protection of the Environment of Rare Species of Animals and Plants) (No. 2604). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. [[11:52:08]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u112	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (with regard to the implementation of European Environmental Standards for the Protection of the Environment of Rare Animals and Plants), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine Dirym, One and Others. Today, there are a number of international environmental conventions and agreements that have been adopted in Europe and ratified by Ukraine. This is the Convention on the Protection of Migratory Species of Animals, the Convention on the Protection of Biological Diversity, the Berne Convention, the Treaty on the Protection of Bats in Europe, the EU Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds, the EU Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wildlife. At the same time, however, there has been no change in the current Ukrainian environmental legislation. The bill is then designed to implement European environmental standards for the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants, as well as to protect against the destruction of the environment of the listed species of animal and plant life in the Red Book of Ukraine. It is proposed to make changes to the law. The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and Laws: "The Red Book of Ukraine", "The Animal World", "The Natural Command Fund." The proposed changes are proposed to establish responsibility for the destruction of living environments (growth) of rare species of animal life and plant life in the Red Book of Ukraine. It is also proposed that fines be increased 5 times for administrative offences provided for in articles 71, 73, 77 of the Code on Administrative Offences of Ukraine. Please accept the bill as a basis. What I'm saying is that today, in fact, a celebration for the environmental community, for the environmental bills, because the Supreme Council has not given environmental bills so much time in this call. And last plenary week, actually, when we were looking at the energy issues, the energy regulator's tariffs, I was meeting people, the people of Bilick, the Sunshine region, where environmental problems bother people no less than other social problems, tariffs and so on. Therefore, Ukraine cannot overlook such important problems. After this bill, we have a very important system-wide bill on environmental impact assessment, on the strategic environmental assessment that we're going to vote on, which directly relates to all the issues that concern people. So, colleagues, please support this bill and we will continue to work by adopting environmental laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two for, and two for, and be as concise as possible. Danielne Vladislav Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Hennadia the Creak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u115	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, first of all, the People's Front faction will clearly support this bill. But I'd like everyone to think about what's actually going on in our environment right now? Let's go back. As you go back to your home, please stop on your expensive cars and see what you're doing in the woods, see how much you're in trouble there, excuse me for saying how much you're polluted there, and how irresponsiblely we are in Ukraine, I'm saying, we're referring to the environment of our country. Today, this bill is one of those bills that will actually be controlled and at least five times will be forced to increase fines for those enterprises that are once again harmful to our environment. So, dear friends, let's think about what we're doing, let's continue this initiative today to support the appropriate environmental, which is designed to protect our nation and our environment of legislation, and we'll be more qualitative and more conscientious about our nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u116	Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Obviously, we've all come to realize that the environmental problem facing our people and our country is quite significant, especially in the western regions of Ukraine, when the water comes down from the drought and the water goes down in the wells. In addition, we also see undue measures of influence, not only administrative, but perhaps criminal pressure is needed on those elements that cause significant damage to the environmental situation in our country. And if we want to live as a European country and if we want to have our environment clean and tidy like our close European neighbours. In addition, we must properly punish those who violate our environmental standards and, at the same time, not only should we punish but we should take up the ecological education of our nation, starting with kindergartens and schools. So, first of all, looking at how we're going around our land in those polluted territories, we need to think properly about the responsibility that lies ahead for the future of our children and to take more severe punishment and not only administratively and even criminally. The bill should therefore be supported, and more normative action should be taken to punish environmental criminals. And I'm asking the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u118	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u119	Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. We believe that the key norms that are now in line with European standards allow for the very clear classification of the actual crimes against the natural environment that are being committed daily in Ukraine. The worst things that can now be prevented if this bill is passed are actually artificial forest fires, as this area is further removed from the forest fund and passed on to the fore. These are actually special reserves that can be created on a long-standing problem that Parliament can't reach, which is amber illegal production. These are actually areas that will now be transferred under protection through criminal administrative law, in fact, violations of those norms that have taken place and are, unfortunately, currently taking place. This bill should be adopted in the first reading, as recommended by the committee, and several rules should be clarified, namely, those that are directly linked to more stringent legislation that will provide for punishment for such crimes. And I think that's how the bill is going to be finally passed. So our faction supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, now will be Markevich's closing statement from Self-Help, and in a minute we will move on to the decision-making process, and so I ask all my colleagues to come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for the vote. Please, Markevitch faction "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u121	The Self-Help faction supports the adoption of the bill, but insists on a professional discussion between the first and second readings on the appearance of so-called "sacral" clients in the bill. It needs a clearer definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so the discussion is over, all the speakers and all the factions have supported the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis and I think we can move on to a decision. Yes, colleagues? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European environmental standards on the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants (number 2604) on a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. 2604 based. Please vote. [[12:02:06]] For 264 264 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Before we announce the break, we have five more environmental bills, among them (after the break) are systemic, important bills: 2009a and 3259. If we work hard, we will be able to move to the section of industry and entrepreneurship by lunchtime, colleagues, if we work actively. So I'm asking everyone without delay, let's go to 12.35 to go to the next bill. And now I'm going to call it a break until 12.35. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, our break is over, and I urge all Ukrainian national deputies to return to the session hall. We continue to have an environmental day in Parliament today, and I sincerely welcome the fact that we have worked very productively for the break, and in the first reading we have adopted five very important bills that bring Ukraine closer to environmental standards to European practices. And now we're going to be looking at two more important bills in the first reading. I invite all factions to return to the session hall to continue their consideration of the relevant bills. Dear colleagues, the break is over, and we invite you to the session hall of the National Deputies. You and I now have two more bills on environmental issues in the first reading and in the second reading, two, as well as bills on environmental issues in the second reading. We welcome Mr. Ostap Semierak to the session room of the minister of profile, and we go to Bill 3323 -- this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation that regulates relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (for special water use). This is Mr. Ribak's national MP's project. And I invite you to report to the head of the subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, John Rybak. And your colleagues, please return to the session room. Yes, thank you, Mr. John tells me that we need to vote now for the procedure, whether we are looking at it in full or in short. Dear colleagues, before I put to the vote a reduced procedure, I appeal once again to the session room to return to the National Deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Mr. Ribak's rapporteur's proposal that we consider this important bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we are voting in favour of the short-term procedure for the consideration of this bill. Let's vote in favour of a reduced procedure. [[12:39:37]] For-84 I see that the deputies are only returning to the session room and have not arrived. It didn't work. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, we do have a situation here. We still have six bills on environmental issues. And of course, we all want to look at them for a big break. Let me re-vote for the procedure, and then we'll get to the point. Please repeat the rapporteur’s proposal: John Ribak is proposed to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Let's put it to a vote, and I ask you to support the consideration of Bill 3323's reduced procedure. Please. [[12:40:38]] For-97 Okay. We're moving on to a full procedure. And I invite you to Mr. Fishback's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u124	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first reading introduces a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing relations relating to obtaining documents of a permissive nature regarding the special use of water resources (number 3323). The bill is aimed at eliminating excessive workload in the formulation of the right to special water use, which will improve business conditions, and will introduce a procedure for the formulation of this right in the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services. The need to simplify this system is due to the following reasons: the need for special water use permits for small businesses that do not pose significant risks or threats to the environment; the excessive number of permissive and agreeable authorities involved in the development of special water use permits; and the inadequacy of individual laws. In order to address these problems, the bill proposes, inter alia, to authorize the granting of special water permits to the central authority of the executive body in the field of water management, namely the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine; not to refer to the special use of water users who take and use less than 5 cubic metres of water per day; to shorten the list of documents provided by the water user to determine the right to special water use. Also, there are solid grounds for ending the right to special water use and for determining how such a right should be terminated. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster supported the bill's concept and made observations and suggestions that we will take into account in the second reading. It also complements the list of documents submitted for special water use; the obligation of water users to develop and approve individual technology standards for all sectors of the economy. The Committee also stressed the need to foresee in the bill the responsibility of water users for the reliability of the information provided for obtaining the permit. Ukraine’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has also supported the bill and made comments that will be taken into account in its second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commented on the bill and noted that the first reading of the bill could be based on the following additions to the second reading. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law amending certain legislative acts governing relations relating to the obtaining of a permit for registration number 3323 as a result of the consideration to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues, during the preparation of this bill for the first reading, a sufficiently serious work and discussion was carried out both on the committee site and directly with representatives of the various factions of our Parliament. I would like to accept the comments made by Mrs. Kugel. I thank you, really, for the nuances that we've been paying attention to. And we agree that today, if we're talking about decentralization, we're talking about simplified mechanisms for obtaining documents of a permissive nature by operators, we can agree to issue permits not once in six years, but really as it is for 25 years. So we're ready to accept these things, and in the committee, we're ready to work on the second reading. I think that together we're going to adopt a fundamental serious bill that will give us the opportunity, whether I support that bill that we're going to be looking at in the second reading today at 3603 on the establishment of a water management system based on the pool principle, this bill is exactly the same before that bill, and if we're voting today in general, we're going to put a serious start in the area of business deregulation, in the area of the regulation of the permit system, in the area of water use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u125	Thank you for your flexibility. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we have a question for the reporter in three minutes. Are we willing to ask the reporter if we are moving on? Let's move on, okay. Oh, there is. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, national deputy Chlan, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u126	Dear reporter, do I rightly understand that it is the authority that will give permission for the use of water that is actually responsible for water balance and that actually regulates water rather than organs that have no relation to water, but today the one who receives the water permit applies to bodies that have no bearing on water balance or water level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. It is indeed necessary to shed light here, because this issue is the main cornerstone among parliamentarians who are not ready to vote for it. It will actually be issued after the adoption, possible adoption of this bill as a whole, and such permits will be issued by the territorial authority of the central executive body, which will be created after we launch the water basin management in Ukraine. So today, we have serious problems with the fact that if the Dniester River flows through five areas, today the permits from above are issued for water use and discounts, marginally acceptable discounts, depending on the current, the area does not possess the information that is being done in their river basin. So it's this bill that will regulate all of these norms. And the territorial water management is going to issue these permits, knowing, possessing information, and we're essentially going to give order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u129	Dear colleague, in addition to giving us a full assessment of the bill, I would like to stress once again and listen to your answer that there is no form of interaction between the central executive authority in the control and execution of the punishment of those who dump and pollute our rivers and reservoirs. And that's why the results of the test are simply not enough in the licensing authorities. How do you see? I'd like to reinforce the role of the Ministry, but to take away the situation that, for example, in the same Odessa flourishes, where the authorities that are supposed to control pollution, in this case of the sea, they do more of the collecting of bribes from entrepreneurs, controlling the standards of deduction of polluted water, giving small limits, that is, if I don't exactly invest in them, then they sit down and every month they control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u130	I'd like to answer your question in an orderly fashion. We were just discussing the issue of controlling the discounts, first of all the discounts. And so this bill, first of all, would like to say that there are solid grounds for ending the right to special water use and determining the order of cessation of such a right, and that is already positive. Because if we're equal to the law, we can't speculate anymore, and that's the part where we're dealing essentially with corruption, including the limit issue we didn't prescribe. I, well, we just got a little closer. We did not prescribe that breaking limits was the basis for lifting the special permit for water use. So this question can be removed. Another issue, namely, giving more authority to environmental inspection, that is, the role of the ministry must be increased in this regard so that it can bring about a discount arrangement. And here's the question of marginally permissible discounts, the question of how they're accounted for, because today we, on the one hand, are essentially limiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u131	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u132	The limits on the use of water are reduced. As we're talking about, this is causing serious damage to the environment. At the same time, we still use it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u133	Is it over? Of course, yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Now, according to the Rules, we have a report from the Main Committee, but the reporter just represented the position of the Main Environmental Committee. And that's why we go from factions to factions. I suggest we limit the performance to two minutes. So we can cut back on this bill and get the whole block. I suggest. Does he support the hall so that we can have talks in two minutes? We're supporting, aren't we? I ask the factions to sign up for this bill. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block, John Winnick is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Today, perhaps an important day for the flora and fauna of Ukraine, we are doing ecoparks, zoos. At the same time, until today, the Supreme Council has not reviewed the changes to the state budget for the current year 2016, has not increased the funding of the Ministry of Defence and other military and law enforcement units that carry out tasks in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Six billion dollars is not enough to pay even money. And we're doing flora and fauna, that's in the country where the war is going. As of today, I would like to inform you, even though the government has given State guarantees to Ucroborprom enterprises, which were not funded because Parliament did not accept the so-called special confiscation of Yanukovich's money, do not work. They do not work because to date the government has not defined a loan term for these state guarantees, who will return interest on the budget, which will be paid the costs that today will be involved by the owners to finance their activities in order to set up the technology and the arms from the incinerators of the Ministry of Defence. And we do flora and fauna. And there's a war in the country, people die every day. Every day it's about how we need to develop the Ukrainian army, and we're talking about fighting corruption, and I can't take the special confiscation and take Janukovic's money, and we have a whole day dedicated to ecology. I respect the efforts of the Ukrainian Parliament to keep Ukraine clean, to fight for the environment, to fight for the rights of flora and fauna, but remember that we have yet to preserve our country. And today the issue is in the hands of the Ukrainian Army, which unfortunately does not receive proper support from the Ukrainian Parliament, honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I still urge those who speak to you to speak in substance of the bill. And now Mr. Krivoshi's representative of the People's Front is invited to the floor. Please. Out of the way. Please turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u136	Thank you. As I go back to our bill, I would like to draw attention to the fact that honourable colleagues, well, first of all, this bill is primarily aimed at deregulation and enterprise development. And of course, it is also a relief to those enterprises that draw up appropriate special permits and so forth. But at the same time, I would like to draw the Ministry's attention to how the relevant territorial institutions will be distributed, how they will work, how much it will really be comfortable, and how we will understand that the direction of the river in which the discharges go, for example in one area, will be exchanged information and will have this information in another area in order to understand how these special permits will be issued and how they will contain the river or the water that will continue to be used by our Ukrainians, using it for consumption in one drink or another. The bill is definitely good, the People's Front faction will vote for it and urge everyone to vote in our Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, from the Fatherland faction, Alexander Cugel. She's coming up to the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, just tears are converted as the voices of the first speaker who suffered for the order of the day. But we suggested, let's put in some bills that today are reviewing tariffs that protect people from evicting, and we've offered to index pensions and wages so they don't take away housing. But you didn't vote. So cry to yourself, please, in your tray. As for the bill, which (3323) is a member of parliament and our position as Fatherland to him. We support that the concentration of functions for water use control and water discharge should also be in the central executive authority, because as a parliamentary country, we should know who to ask, if the most expensive thing in the world is that there will be no food and water control by the state and parliament. But we have serious comments that the author has agreed that we do not take them into account in the first reading. First of all, I'm paying attention, the only simplification for business is that it's going to appear not because of bribes, but because of just direct reference. It's different. Everything else is making things worse for business. And that's why we agreed with you that we're not changing the terms of the license that are today 25 years old by 6 years. Not to give birth to a new river of bribes. Our second observation, which the author agreed to delete. This is what it says is that for water, water use will also be paid by secondary water users. That's unacceptable, because when I get water, I have a contract and there's all the water payments that get me, the second time I won't pay for it. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u139	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u140	Last one. What I'd like to ask the Ministry to join us to write down, how we set limits with you on discounts, on water use, and on control. They always made a lot of money on what was underpriced.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u141	Thank you for your position. The factions have ended. Now, according to the Rules, there are speeches by the national deputies of Ukraine. Are they willing to speak? Is there a position that I understand is consolidated, that the author takes into account the comments made and we can put to the vote a bill with excluded positions that have been sounded? Is there a desire on the part of the deputies to speak or to give? Yes. Then, please speak to the people's deputies, I ask you to sign up, and let's also limit the speeches of the national deputies at my offer in two minutes, but we're giving 15 minutes for the performance. Okay? Please sign up. Please, Mr. Evtushek is referring the word Odarchenko to the national MP. Turn the microphone on on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill, it has a rational grain and has the right to exist, but it needs to be worked out in a second reading. But what I would like us to do is to look at the following, is there a ministry today capable of creating new executive organs that will control something? Today, the Ministry has sufficient authority and capacity to control water resources through the Ukrainian Water Agency. And now we can see clearly what the Ministry's system of work and the water management system is, which is budgetary, which is essentially strategic objects for all of Ukraine. I'm elected mayor in the Herson area, and I can now quite frankly say that the State Department of Water Management. The economy doesn't work at all. Instead of creating conditions and increasing the amount of irrigated land in Hersonland at least twice, or perhaps three times, there are today clear consequences of the fact that the management of the North Crimson Canal, the Kakhov Canal, abuses its service status and there are signs of very serious, criminal crimes. I would now like to draw his attention to the inefficient work of the public agency. Nothing has been done today to strengthen the agency's work. To increase irrigation land and minimize the cost of water users. Rather, there are serious signs of corruption when committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u143	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u144	subcontractors who are illegally involved in the performance of their jobs are making mad notes on millions of dollars of using these water resources. I just wanted to get the minister's attention on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. No, I have enough speakers, I have to. I'll give you my word later. Mrs. Zalitschuk's word from the Peter Dusty Block, please. She's giving the word to Mr. Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Just now, our colleague from our faction was speaking of what we are talking about today as flora and fauna, not war today. So I'll tell you, dear colleagues, when the last tree is cut out, when the last river in Ukraine is dried up, no one will need the money anymore. And then we're going to talk to you about something completely different. Dear friends! This bill has just been prepared to support the 3603 bill that we are going to consider with you today in a second reading and we are essentially going to introduce a water management system based on the pool principle in Ukraine. This is an entirely new management model in Ukraine. Today, colleagues from the People's Front, thank you for supporting this bill, asked: how will coordination, in general, be carried out, information coordination between the territorial water authorities. Water management? We're going to have a new, completely new model based on the pool principle today, which is conditionally, if we have water management of the Dniester-Prutski Basin Management, it will have full ownership of the information in Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankivsky, Cherniewsky, Vinnitsky and Hmelnicke areas, and that will be how this coordination will be carried out. I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u147	Oh, thank you, Your Honor. The representative of Fatherland, Mr. Odarchenko, is once again invited to the floor. Please take the floor, my dear fellow, so that the other deputies will be able to take the floor, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u148	Thank you for following the Rules. I would now like to go back to the topic of the State Water Agency." Hersonianism suffers from the lack of jobs and, in fact, many lands of agriculture are exposed to irrigation. And instead of making every effort right now to make at least a third of the amount of irrigated land -- not 230,000 hectares, but at least 300-350,000 hectares -- the State Agency is now doing what has created a whole system of water users and is doing it to raise money from them, not to develop a system. I would like Mr. Semerac to speak very well right now, but I would like him to point out that no bill that would create conditions for irrigation to develop is there anything that the director of the agency is now doing anything to ensure that this system develops and that Hersonian has the opportunity to obtain additional crops. Mr. Semiraq, Hersonish needs a good head of the State Water Agency to deal with the problems of the Herson region rather than create corruption schemes on the water supply system. There will now be a competition to replace the agency manager's vacancy. I ask you to pay attention and, in principle, approach the human resources assignments, look at the calculations that have been in the work of today’s executive duty, and engage in the work of principle, a professional person who would give us a significant increase in the number of irrigated lands in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u149	Thank you. The minister will be able to answer the questions and comments of the deputies after the speeches of all the national deputies. I'm pointing out to my colleagues that we have nine minutes to vote. So please return to the session room. And now we're inviting the representative of Oleg Nedda's "Peter Prashenko's Block." By the microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, my friends, I fully support Ivan Rybak's words that if we don't think about the environment, the environment, we will, in principle, have no future at all. Because what's happening in the country right now is a disaster, it's an environmental disaster. And we pay very little attention to that. Today, which is the day of the environmentalists, I think will remain in the memory of all environmentalists for a long time. But the number of laws we are now enacting is small enough. And there are a lot of laws left, and bills remain outside. These are waste laws, these are laws on hazardous wastes and many other laws. So to say that we have a war now and that we don't have to do anything else, you don't have to look at the environment, it's mildly inappropriate. I propose that everyone vote in favour of this law and also vote in favour of subsequent laws and support the environment, support our future, support our children. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. And please welcome to the floor the representative of the "Clock of Peter Dustenka" Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Saul’s word is rendered “salova. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u152	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, the consideration of this bill, as I see it, today allows us to draw attention to the extremely important problem that is now in our country. This problem is particularly acute in Western Ukraine. If you open up a nice house today, a nice house, especially one that was built 20 to 30 years ago, you won't find any water in this shed. If you look at rivers like Bistrica, Prut, or Dniester today, these rivers, which were considered to be full - watered and deep - watered 10, 15, 20 years ago, are more like streams in mountains that are little like the real rivers that they were a few years ago. And so one of the reasons why this was happening in our country is that the only structure responsible for water supply was not present in our country until now. The water permit was issued by an administration in one area without any responsibility; the allowance was granted by the administration in another area altogether. And so it is clear that this bill, which establishes the responsibility of one structure for the water problem in our country, is on time today. Moreover, the principles that are proposed for use are extremely important in the principle of pool water use. But at the same time, we need to consider water issues in our parliament, and we need to draw the most attention to those problems. And in addition to this today, there are a number of other issues related to the issue of illegal logging, which are also related to the issue of water supply. I therefore urge all parliamentarians to vote in the first reading for this bill, there are a number of points that we need to correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland is invited to the floor. Sergey Soboljev makes his speech John Ribak from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I thank you for a very thorough and comprehensive discussion of this bill. And I think we're ready to support this bill, and the Ukrainian Parliament is really Ukrainian and ready to fight for clean environment, for clean water. I thank everyone and call for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Next speaking Mr. Barna. Do you want to take the floor? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u156	Friends, the environmental crisis that Ukraine has seen in the last two years, especially in the field of water resources, is now the most significant in the Western Ukraine. And there are also a lot of questions to the Department of Water Resources of the Ministry of Ecology, the heads of local administrations, who at the time, for a long time on commercial basis, leased water, agreed on mindless and unprofessional uses of water when it was dry summer, and this led to the catastrophic loss of water along with unfavourable natural conditions, plus the unprofessional use of these waters. So I'm going to have one of these. I ask the Minister of Ecology to properly study the situation and the reasons that have led to these consequences, and accordingly those persons who have been involved in this waste water-free use should not now take up office or rotate higher management, but should be removed from office and punished. Because as representatives of the authorities, we now represent the people and represent our nation, and we now have the obligation to leave behind our offspring a state for which they should thank us. And we should leave our children with a land where they could live normally and fully. The earth that God has given us must be used only to live but not to adopt, not to destroy, and therefore not to sell. Please vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u157	Thank you. The next speaker gives the word to Kiral. This will be the final talk in the discussion. Then there will be the minister's closing word. Colleagues! Please, one minute, Kieral, and then Semerak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u158	Thank you, Your Honor! The Self-Help faction will of course support this very useful bill. I would also like to take this opportunity to inform my fellow MPs that, as the head of the committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last week in Lviv, we held a field meeting and it was water and water resources management that we had one of the issues in the agenda. And it turns out that the issue is absolutely urgent not only for Ukraine but also for many countries of the world, because the so-called European Water Management Directive does not apply until the end, and in France alone, for the first time in June 2016, human rights, the right of citizens of France to access water and water were enshrined at the legislative level. So I'd like to take this opportunity to encourage the ministry and the minister personally not to go through these points of decision by solving the problems, but to look at the problem in the complex and apply the European ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One minute later, we move on to making a decision. I ask you very much to invite all the deputies into the hall. And now I give the final word to the Minister of Ostap Semierak. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Andrey! Dear National Deputies! The bill that we just discussed is an MP. However, the Ministry of Ecology supports it in its first reading. And it supports the comments that were made during the discussion on conclusions, the deadlines for conclusions, the listing of documentation and the responsibility of water users for the complete and reliable information that has been provided. So I think we'll be able to fix this before the second reading with the committee. As far as the system is concerned. I would like to inform and agree that the situation in the field is very difficult. This has resulted in various factors, including the problem of leadership. As for what the national deputy Odarchenko said, it is happening. But the situation today -- today literally, Mr. Yuri -- is the first stage in the election of the head of the Water Agency, tomorrow's final stage. I hope that in the last two years, the agency will receive a full-fledged, legitimate leader who will be able to run this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u161	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. This really is a problem. And we're deciding on it in accordance with the law that Parliament voted on reforming the public service. I would also like to point out that financing the sector is extremely negative. This year, the budget was budgeted for two hundred thousand dollars. Not millions, but 200,000 dollars for all rivers, for all the waters in Ukraine! There's really nothing you can do about this money. That is why, unfortunately, we see such a disastrous situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! During the discussion, all representatives of all factions supported the bill that had been amended by the Ribaks, which had been bugged, and Kugel, yes. Although, in principle, the first and second readings apply. But I'm going to point out that we have a better chance of acceptance. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. Please take up jobs. Please, I am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which regulate relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (for special water use) (No.3323) on the basis of, colleagues, only on the basis of amendments that have been made to the transcript by Rybak and Mrs. Kugel. So with those amendments, I'm putting draft Law 3323 to the vote as a basis. Please vote, please support, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:16:53]] For 246 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee. Colleagues, I want to tell you now our next plan. The last draft in the chapter "first reading," then goes "second reading," key environmental bill, key. So I ask you very much to support the discussion in the first reading by means of a reduced procedure. Colleagues, the following are referred to the draft Law amending article 265 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine concerning voluntary surrender of radioactive materials (No. 4612). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please support me. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please. [[13:17:51]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, a draft Act amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on voluntary surrender of radioactive materials has been tabled for your consideration. The premeditated drafting of this bill is that the Ukrainian State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone has developed, has initiated preparations for the implementation of a project for the implementation of a social gathering company in the population of abandoned radioactive sources of ionizing radiation in one of the areas of Ukraine, and we have to make it available to the whole country. Since the existing system of removal of abandoned sources of ionizing radiation and radioactive waste is not perfect, there was a need to change Ukrainian legislation. Such a situation increases the likelihood of radioactive accidents and the possible use of radiation materials in terrorist acts. The bill therefore proposes to supplement article 265 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code with part four, which lays down the legal basis for exemption from criminal liability of persons who voluntarily gave radioactive material to the authorities. The implementation of the bill on the release of criminal liability in case of voluntary surrender of such materials will significantly improve radiation safety by removing radioactive material from the population and legal persons and transferring it to specialized radioactive waste management companies. The main result should be to increase the level of safety. The bill is discussed with the committee and is proposed to receive it, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u165	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u166	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legislative Protection considered the draft Law amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on voluntary surrender of radioactive materials (number 4612). The bill proposes to supplement article 265 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code with part four, which establishes the legal basis for exemption from criminal liability of persons who voluntarily surrender radioactive material to the authorities. So the sources of ionizing radiation, the radioactive substances or the nuclear materials that are in any physical state, in the facility, or in production or otherwise. According to members of the committee, the implementation of the bill will significantly improve the state of radioactivity in Ukraine by removing radioactive material from the population and legal persons and by transferring it to specialized companies to deal with radioactive waste. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as by the Committees on Environmental Policy, Budget, Prevention of Corruption and the Committee decided to recommend Bill 4612 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u167	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two for, two against. The sound of Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Hennadia the Creak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u169	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First, the People's Front faction will clearly support the bill. And, at the same time, I'd like to go directly to the authorities, the local authorities, the village councils, and so forth. Dear friends, you all know very well how leaders are in places where you have exactly this kind of storage of radioactive substances. There are a lot of places, radioactive substances that have been left since Soviet power, when it's just a carefree roll right now and has free access for ordinary people, and it's causing enormous damage. We see how many of these places are being shown in the news right now and how they are damaging to our nature, to our ecology, so the initiative is definitely pretty good. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to whether there is one today, or do the relevant authorities of local self - government, so called, provide information on where such storage is? I would like the Ministry to give appropriate instructions to the relevant departments, administrations and authorities on the ground, including district administrations and district administrations, which would, along with these local administrations, conduct a proper examination and make an appropriate list of the so-called sites for the storage of the relevant radioactive substances. First of all, it's going to be clear where they are, where they're at, and if they're already there, it's obviously pretty positive, and it's pretty promising to get the results of the work. A good bill, the People's Front faction will clearly vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Now the closing statement in the discussion will be the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. After that, let us move on to making a decision. Helen Skrum gives the floor and asks everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u171	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, let me start by saying that "Paternity" will support this bill, it's the right one, it's the first step to solve this problem. But the problem is not only that there are areas or places where these radioactive substances can be found and taken away, such as the Chernobyl area. The problem is, there are labs, university labs, the Academy of Sciences, some neglected or unsupervised teaching institutes where actually the lab can come, or the student can put some substance in the bag and then go to the subway. And that was very scary for me to hear, for example, yesterday at the "Fatherland" faction meeting, when Mr. Semiraq came to us, for which we are very, very grateful to him. So I think this is the right first step, and this bill really has to collect these things and it has to stimulate people to return them. But we also need to talk about the safety of our citizens and about the safety of the laboratories where such substances are stored. Physico-Mathematics Institutes and everything else, where these substances can be and can be carried out freely by absolutely students, laboratories and other people. So let's start with this bill, and then we'll work on it -- it's a very dangerous trend and we have to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, all speakers have supported the bill, and so I ask you to take your jobs and prepare for the decision. I want to ask, can I make a proposal to the committee as a whole? I can. Colleagues, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 265 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on voluntary surrender of radioactive materials (number 4612) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[13:26:47]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda, the second reading. These are key, systemic bills, and I'm stressing this is the second reading. We're going to go after the amendments that we have here. I ask you to prepare yourself for the work and head of the committee and ministers so that you can comment on the MPs' warnings on the amendments. And, colleagues, please and call for systemic work. So we're going to draft the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2009a-d (Deputy). And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear Lord Chairman! For consideration by the Supreme Council, the second reading contains a bill on environmental impact assessment (registration number 2009a) that has been finalized. The purpose of the bill is to establish legal and organizational principles for environmental impact assessment and to ensure that Ukraine fulfils its international obligations under the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-Border Context (Espoo Convention), the Convention on Access to Information to Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters – the Aarhus Convention is a well-known and implementation of the national legislation of the Eurodive. In particular, the law provides for an environmental impact assessment procedure. Instead, we cancel environmental expertise and completely remove it from our legislation. An imperative rule is in place, according to which an impact assessment when deciding on a planned activity is required. We define a list of objects and activities that are subject to the environmental impact assessment procedure. That is, it will not be the official’s judgment, but the law will clearly prescribe the types of activities that will assess the impact on the environment. Free and free public access to all information is ensured. concerning the planned activity and the public consultation procedure. It is possible to enter a single register of environmental impact assessments that will also be open and accessible to the public. And it is anticipated that the negative impact on the environment and human health will be thoroughly analyzed before large - scale work begins and taken into account when final decisions are made. When the bill was finalized, 214 amendments were made to the second reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 151 were taken into account, including partially or editorially, 63 were rejected. In preparing for second reading, improved terminology, a refined list of activities and objects included in the scope of the bill; a refined procedure for public information and public discussion, an environmental impact assessment report; improved decision-making procedures for impact assessment, environmental impact assessments when final decisions are made, complaints of decisions, actions or omissions in environmental impact assessment. And the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for a bill with observations. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment as a result of a second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. But ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. I have a request and an appeal to all the national deputies. No questions asked, statements were made on the amendments. I have, colleagues, a general appeal. When we entered full reading, we delayed the process under the previous bill. Now we have half an hour and three bills in the second reading. These are system-setting important bills, and I ask those amendments to be put on confirmation only if you see great principles and great weight in that. I'm going to call all the rejected amendments and I'm only asking you to take the word that really thinks it's a principle amendment. So I'm moving on to the amendments. 2nd, Spinov. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 4th, Sažko. Don't insist. 5th, Spinov. Don't insist. 6th, Martovitch. Don't insist. 8th, Rybchin. He insists. Please turn on the microphone, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u175	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Mr. Ostap, I hold in my hands the 92nd directive, which we implement as "The assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects.".. The main word here is project. When you open the first article right away, you see the definition of a project, and that's why my amendment No. 8 just implements the word for the European directive. And I don't understand why she was rejected by the committee if she's just here to execute part two of Article 1 of this Directive. Moreover, this amendment is related to the 140, which is partially counted. I mean, I don't understand why this overwhelming regulation, which simply implements European legislation, has been rejected by the committee. Please support and explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u176	Mr. Ostap, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u177	I thank Alexia very much for the suggestions made. The thing is, the project is probably a little bit narrower. We have a plan of action as a broader concept, and it does not conflict with the Eurodial Directives. And it actually contains a partial description of that. the project is amended by you. Thus, in principle, we do not feel that it is necessary to give a separate description of the project, and it does not have a major impact on it. In general, it's a process. So planned activities are both projects and wider. So it's for the judgment of the hall. If it supports the hall, it can be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment No. 8 of People's Deputies Rybchin. Whoever supports this amendment does not object, please vote. Please vote. [[13:33:45]] For 176 The decision is not made. Next, 14th, Sažko. Don't insist. 15th, Martovitch. Don't insist. 17th, Spanov. Don't insist. 21st, Spinov. Don't insist. 27th. Ribchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u179	I'm asking you, 25 amendments, because it's partially accounted for, and that's very important. And here I have more questions for the committee. According to this directive (Appendix 2) "Spheres of Application on Chemical Production and Industry", but it is excluded, i.e. not included, I don't understand why the committee partly counted. The production of explosives, phosphorous, nitrogen-mixed or co-mixed mineral fertilizers, and what I don't understand at all is the storage of chemical products, base and waste warehouses, landfills, bases, regardless of methods and use of products, why is that not within the scope of this bill? So whether it's a sectoral lobbyism or just missing it, but it's very important that we just exclude from the most important bill these harmful sectors. Please explain to the committee. I'm very much asking that this 25 is fully accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u180	Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u181	It is part of the current item, and other items in this article, they include activities called the National MP, so we didn't really include them in paragraph 6 of this article. Again, it's not a principle, we can support it, but it's just going to be in different sub-items of the same article that the same kind of activity duplicates, but again, if they support the national MPs of the amendment, then the technical legal rights can be synchronized with all the other paragraphs of the article. That's why I'm asking the hall. This is not a principle amendment that will somehow damage the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 25 of People's Deputies Rybchin, the chairman of the committee does not object to the adoption of this amendment. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:36:10]] For 171 171 for. The decision is not made. 27th. Don't insist. Guys, let's move on. 30th, Rybchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u183	Same thing. In Ukraine, if we are implementing European legislation, we need to give more precision to all sectors, all sub-items, because if this is not stated in the bill and in the law, this is not done. We're not in Europe, where we can somehow show the general framework, we have, if this is prescribed then it's done. And that's why it's bigger because it's about oil and natural gas. And in these projects that will relate to the environmental assessment of this law, hopefully it will pass. So here we're writing that we want to add for a commercial purpose if the quantity of production exceeds 500 tons per day and oil up to 500 thousand cubic meters per day for natural gas. It's just a requirement of a directive that we're implementing. I don't know why these important things were excluded both from chemicals and from oil and gas. An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u184	Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, these activities, such as oil and gas mining, are also listed in other sub-items in this article. In this case, we set thresholds and we actually have paragraph 11 which refers to, well, other types of activity, actually, watersheds, dams, other objects designed to keep water in constant storage. We can actually add, once again, your thresholds, as I see it as a somewhat excessive regulation, because we have a separate reference to oil and natural gas extraction on the continental shelf and at other points on oil and gas. So, again, to the judgment of the hall. We can specify and write these points clearly. I agree with the law that it is desirable to prescribe everything so that there is as little discretion and abuse as possible in determining officials. So once again, in the judgment of the Hall, we can support this point, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on Amendment 30. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:38:36]] For-174 The decision is not taken. 37th, Spinov. Don't insist. 40th, Ednak. Don't insist. 41st, Pinzenik. Don't insist. 52nd, Spinov. Don't insist. 59th, Kieral. He insists. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u187	Thank you. I really don't insist and ask the chairman not to put any of the following amendments on confirmation. But I would like to explain the point of these amendments. The essence of the amendments is that they are based on great British experience. Because, you know, so the general requirement is to apply the assessment. But this is about every country, which criteria, which thresholds are displayed. So in my opinion, and with these amendments, we tried to find some balance so that we wouldn't block the necessary investment and stimulate economic activity. Because we have more than 90 percent of the infrastructure that we have today in the country. We need to build new roads, new energy complexes and stuff. And this balance is exactly what we've been trying to achieve with these amendments. The committee has become involved, we will monitor, we will make changes in the future. The law, of course, needs support. I still wanted to ask the chairman. Amendment 144 is taken into account in part. When we get to her, please give me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u188	Okay. This is what you insist on voting on? Don't insist. Please, wolf. Turn on the wolf microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u189	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. We want to bet on confirmation. Because we deny taking amendments Nos. 46 and 47 into account. During the first reading of the bill, the Radical Party faction had little or no warnings and observations about the bill, which were particularly expressed by industrial, business and business associations. So we welcome that in the process of preparing for second reading, many comments from business and industry were taken into account. At the same time, there is one. One situation, one particular case, where, to our conviction, such consideration was excessive, namely, the removal from the environmental impact assessment of the change in the target destination of agricultural land and the change in the target destination of particularly valuable land. We are against this amendment, and we demand that it be put in place for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u190	Please, Mr. Ostap, explain both ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u191	Thank you for offering me a national MP. The point is that when we consider this bill in the committee, we wanted to strike a balance between our own business, environment and society. And here we thought that excessive regulation would be inappropriate and rejected at first when the first draft of the bill had an impact assessment on the environment of agricultural land. If this is the position of the Radical Party and the principle of the position that will be significant when they vote, we can, in principle, give up this amendment, you can place it on confirmation, I don't insist on supporting it. And so the environmental impact assessment will be carried out with regard to land. changes in the target destination of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u192	Thank you. Since this is Victor Pinzenik's amendment, I give the floor to Victor Pinzenik. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I have a request to withdraw the proposal to confirm this amendment, why? A bill that does not require a change in the purpose of the earth’s assignment requires ecological expertise, and this is true because environmental expertise is needed when an object is being built or a certain activity is being carried out. But the very change in purposeful use does not lead to any environmental consequences. So there's a suggestion to leave this rule as it is. Because there's going to be an expertise in any case when the business is going to take place. Please withdraw your vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a controversial question. I ask the Minister to comment, Ostap Semerak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, in fact, Victor Pinzenic is right that when a project is built, he will undergo an environmental impact assessment. But in fact, for the resolution of the hall, we're going to take both of these, and so on. Of course, if we're going to be doing an ODS on change of influence, it's an extra job for the Ministry, however, as the conference will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Will you not deny that I will put to the vote for confirmation before the vote? Dear colleagues, I now ask you to enter the Chamber, please take your seats, please, there will be an important vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u197	Environmental impact assessment of agricultural land
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u198	Mr. Ostap, as people come in, explain once again the substance of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u199	The thing is, potentially, if we move the land, we change the target use of agricultural land, it can partially hold back, let's say, the pace of investment projects, and in part, well, it can have a negative impact on the investment climate. But we also need to understand that if these lands of agricultural use are to be changed we are to be used in the forest. Forest management or other activities, not necessarily under construction or under industry, may affect the environment, and there may be a risk of environmental impacts. So once again, I'm sure it won't have a negative impact on the peasants and the Ukrainian villages, because we're changing, we're constantly changing the target destination of agricultural land. Again, for the judgment of the hall. But I hope it doesn't affect the overall fate of the law, because it doesn't really change anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we can vote. Colleagues, I'm going to put this to a vote, both amendments for confirmation. But if we end up with the law in a stalemate situation, I'm going to ask you to go back to all the conflicting things. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 46. Dear colleagues who support the amendment. It's for confirmation. I mean, whoever supports it has to vote in favour of Victor Pinzenik's amendment, which he insists should be confirmed. Whoever supports the amendment of the 46th People's Deputies of Pinzenik, please vote. Yes, please vote who supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:46:21]] For-170. The decision is not made. And now, likewise, Amendment 47, which supports this amendment, please vote, Amendment 47. Please vote. [[13:46:46]] For-153 The decision is not made. Guys, let's move on. I'm asking you to work harder, because I can see how time works. And then we have 74th Kiral, he said he wouldn't bet. Next up we've got 94 rejected, Sold. Don't insist. 99th, Pinzenic. Don't insist. You see, most of the amendments are taken into account, very systematic work has been done, and you have to look for those that are unaccounted for. 136th, Pinzenik. Don't insist. 141th, Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u201	140.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u202	140. Partially counted. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u203	My colleagues, thank you for supporting my past rights, your support, it really means a lot to me. I've just been getting messages from people who've been watching this very carefully that they've been supporting and 8 amendments to the project. And this 140 amendment, it's touching what's been implemented. So we're replacing these public discussions that weren't always under the law, let's say, a more transparent system. And I have a description of how it should be counted. So there must be information, a description of a project that contains information about its implementation, execution plan and scale, a description of the actions, data needed to identify and evaluate its impact. I mean, it's partially included, but these are things that should be detailed for people that should be noted. I think that in our country today, in the implementation of legislation, this should be marked so that there are no manipulations, and everything was clear, and it worked for this bill. Please support this particular revision and the revision of the project, which is number 8. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u204	Thank you. Please comment, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u205	I want to point out that actually the proposal for this amendment is partially taken into account in an editorial way. We have a separate article that sets out the requirements for a plan of action report, yes. Here the MP proposes to describe it more in a more structured way by the paragraphs, it's all in article 3, so I don't see the need even, let's say that article 3 in our editorial and committee editing is wider than the proposed edition. So once again, for the court's sake, but we can then have legal remedies, if we even support this amendment, we can improve it to the second reading. So we can support this in our judgment, but I would like to point out that the committee's editing includes all of this information and all of these requirements that are set out in the amendment of the People's Chamber of the Rybchin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u206	Thank you. So, whoever supports the amendment of National MP Rybkin No. 140, please vote. Please vote. [[13:50:03]] For 177 177 for. The decision is not made. Next: 141, Sold, not insisting. 142nd, Sold, doesn't insist. 144th, right? 144th, please, Kiral, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u207	Thank you. 144 revisions are partially taken into account, but not really counted. It refers to the fact that the owner informs the authorized territorial authority of the intention to carry out planned activities and assess their environmental impact by reporting. At present, only a message is left in the text of the law directly to the authorized body. By my amendment, I propose that this message may be submitted through the administrative services centre. We create those centers as the only window where entrepreneurs can come and file their documents and get some service from the state. Why we can't do the same for this evaluation, please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u208	Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u209	Thanks for the offer. The point is, administrative services centers. Well, fairly often administrative services are not free – this time. Secondly, if we report a planned activity to the central executive body, we clearly place it within three days for further deployment and publication. If this goes through CNAP, there is no guarantee that this term will be preserved and then the subject of farming, if, God forbid, the official does not work that way. Then. Allegedly. These procedures. So we actually made a tougher framework for an official, but we didn't include DNA in these. These schemes, because these are administrative services, and in this case, this is not a similar kind of service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u210	Do you insist on voting? Yes. So, honourable colleagues who support Amendment 144 of the People’s Deputy Kiral, please vote. Please vote. [[13:52:27]] For 168 The decision is not taken. 150th, Spinov. Don't insist. Colleagues, let's be more intense. I'm asking you very much, because we are. 151st, Sažko. Don't insist. 152nd, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 153rd? Don't insist. 155th. Don't insist. 157th. Don't insist. 163th. Don't insist. 164th. Don't insist. 168th. Don't insist. 173rd. Don't insist. 176th. Don't insist. 180th. Don't insist. 183rd. Don't insist. 188th. Don't insist. 195th. Don't insist. 197th. Don't insist. 199th. Don't insist. 202. Don't insist. 203. Don't insist. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a few minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite everyone into the hall. 210th. Don't insist. Yeah, we're almost done. Everyone, please come into the hall. Colleagues, we've been through all the amendments made by the people's deputies. A discussion took place, during which all the demands of the national deputies were taken into account during the vote or were voted on. And we can go to the second reading. Dear colleagues, I'd like to do it now. Does "self-help" support you? Everybody backing up in the hall? Is there anyone who doesn't support this bill? Colleagues, everyone backing up? Can I put it to a vote? Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Now, one minute of closing words for Ostap Semierak, the minister. And in one minute, we're going to vote. We had a long acceptance story on the first reading, I'll remind you. But then everyone understood the importance of this bill. A large and professional discussion was held. So, colleagues, I ask you to respond responsibly to this vote. Please, Ostap. Mr. Ostap Semerak, one minute. And then we go to the vote. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Thank you to the National Deputies for the quality of the discussion. I would like to point out that we have talked a lot about environmental reforms today. And I think that the adoption of this law and the adoption of the next Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment are the two bills that should form the basis for reforming the health system. environmental protection in Ukraine A huge, titaniumic work was carried out involving social organizations, our partners from the European Union. And these are also, fellow believers, our obligations under four international legal instruments, including the Association Agreement. I would very much like to take a very responsible vote and support our work together. And the corrections we discussed today, including Alexia Rybchin, are almost all included in other articles. So Alexus did a great job. And what Kiral said is also included. That's why the colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u212	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u213	Those amendments that were discussed were actually an improvement in good work. The work is done well, I ask your votes to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me for a job, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (No. 2009a) in second reading and generally, colleagues. Please vote. Please support an important, systematic European law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues. [[13:56:56]] For 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to the committee. Hello, Minister. Dear colleagues, thank you. Don't leave. Colleagues, next bill. Five rights, colleagues. There's only five rights. Please. The fish will report. I'm looking at draft Law 3259 on Strategic Environmental Assessment. And do not depart, fellow workers, from the five corners of all things. I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this bill. Please don't break up. And I ask John Petrovich to be as concise as possible. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u215	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading contains a bill on strategic environmental assessment of registration number 3259. The bill is designed to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation in the area of application and order of strategic environmental assessment according to the approaches enshrined in the European Union directives. I would like to describe briefly in two words what this bill is, to remind us of what we voted on in the first reading, supported, worked on the second reading. Today, 24 revisions have been considered by the committee, four of which have been rejected and one dealt with editorially. Fellow dignitaries, this bill will allow strategic planning in the general plans of the organizations and territories of the plans, detailed planning of areas where industrial objects can be located and, accordingly, pre-planned so that the investor can be offered just a certain area for the construction of an industrial object, to calculate all the ecological risks that an appropriate area may face. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the second reading. And, Mr. Head, let's move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, please don't go out, but go into the hall. Let's go to the right. Please come into the hall, everyone, please come into the hall. I'm going to the right. 1st, I was walking. Don't insist. 2nd, Walking. Don't insist. All of it. In fact, two revisions were rejected. Colleagues, discussion is over. All the revisions were taken into account and this is a quality work indicator for both the committee and the ministry. We can move on to making decisions, colleagues. Please come into the hall and take your jobs, colleagues, please. Can we make a decision? Colleagues, we've had a discussion and I'm voting on the draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment (number 3259) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please. [[14:00:28]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, just a minute. Does it make sense to go to 3603? We have, colleagues, the last bill, but we'll have a chance to start after lunch with the firm right away. This is the last draft of the block. Colleagues, let's give it a try, last one. I can resume the session. Colleagues, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] 21 papers, colleagues. So we don't break the law. Colleagues, let me ask you a question. After lunch. The committee says "after lunch." He says "after lunch." I'm asking you very much at 4:00 to have everyone in the workplace, because we're going to go straight to the vote, colleague. I thank you all for your fruitful, systematic work, colleagues. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'm calling it a break until 4:00. At 4 p.m., please be in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
