ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, 16.02, break time is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to urge the deputies to enter the Hall. Please. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register yet? Who's not ready? Everybody's ready. By the way, I didn't tell you. Before lunch, I closed the morning plenary meeting before dinner. I'll open the evening after the check-in. So, your honor, I'd like you to conduct the registration. Please register. [[16:09:35]] 358 "for", registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, I'd like to tell you the logic of our work right now. We have two bills that have been owed since the day of local self-government, 4772 and 4773, and then we have a block of agrarian issues that we haven't been able to reach five times. So I have a general proposal for all fellow national MPs to work very productively and we have a chance to go through those two laws, and the left-hand side of the laws that apply to agrarian politics. And I'm asking you to support the short-term initiative, and more than that, many of those bills have been discussed and discussed, and I'm asking everyone to work as actively as possible. And I'm going to the next item on the agenda. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for voluntary association of territorial communities) (4772). And I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support. Can you hold it? Short-term procedure -- everyone backing up, colleagues? There will be a vote now, colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, I'm voting on the 4772 motion for a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, back up. Please vote, please support everyone, please vote. [[4:11:59]] For 139 Not all of them have made it. We didn't make it, I see. I can tell by name who didn't make it. We'll wait 10 or 15 seconds. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall. Please concentrate, feel the responsibility of every vote, make a decision. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself carefully for the vote and to support me. Colleagues, they're all here to come. And I'm renouncing the motion for a vote, I'm considering a reduced procedure, 4772. Colleagues, local self-government, please support, please vote. Please vote. In short, support, vote. [[16:13:15]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, what's the bill about? This bill provides an opportunity to join the united territorial communities of those who have expressed their desire. And this bill, once again, stresses one key phrase: volunteering. Volunteering, volunteering. It enables the creation of an additional 236 united territorial communities during this year. The results, I would also like to ask you to look at this booklet that was distributed at the time of your registration. There is one very good figure that the incomes of the unified budgets, the united communities of this year until the corresponding period of last year increased sevenfold, that is, the united communities received seven times more money than they had a year ago. This bill allows for the resolution of these issues, and the drafters of this bill are 22 national deputies, virtually all factions. I will immediately complete the decision of our Committee on State Building, Local Self - Government, and Regional Policy. He reviewed the bill's July 6th draft. And the bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Voluntary Unity, on Local Elections, and for the establishment of a system of voluntary integration of territorial communities into united communities, the specific activities of bodies and officials of the local self-government of the local communities that have joined, during the period following the accession of the newly elected council of the united territorial community to the local elections; the arrangements for the holding of additional elections of deputies of rural, rural, urban councils, as well as the improvement of the mechanism of State support for voluntary unification of communities. The Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing believes that adoption, in particular the bill, will in the short term contribute to the further decentralization of power, the development of local self-government and the improvement of the territorial organization of government. In its conclusion, the All-Ukrainian Organization of Local Self-Government Authorities of the Association of Cities of Ukraine noted that the bill needed to be finalized, particularly in the part of granting powers to the Cabinet of Ministers to the recognition of a unified territorial community capable of holding the election of deputies from an integrated territorial community to a rural, rural, municipal council with a majority majority majority. After a comprehensive discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts (for voluntary association of territorial communities) (registration number 4772), on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted on the basis of the first reading and to shorten the time-limits for the submission of legislative proposals and amendments to the bill in preparation for the second reading as a whole. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a record: two for, two against. Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland. Please. Eutusek gives it to Yvchenka. But it's better to take the microphone again and do it officially. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u4	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, especially those who shouted about a faction that did not support decentralization. One prime minister liked to count on a calculator. So here I am asking that some people learn how to count. There's the general budget of the country and it's the weight of all the local budgets in this general budget. So here, colleagues, in 2014, this pie weight was 22.2 percent. Last year, more specifically this year, 20, and the following year, 19.9. Where's the decentralization? Where is financial decentralization? In a debilitating scale, all the local budgets are constantly falling, instead of increasing the state budget. It's mathematics, and that's what the Prime Minister taught. Next. What are we doing next? And then we increase the subsidies to the district councils to support the unified territorial communities by 163 times, 14.9 billion to support, because we understand that most of them are unable to provide quality services themselves, unable to. Here's the budget. Next. Don't we understand, colleagues, that the laws that are being proposed today are based on those poor communities from which you as a coalition have taken the money? You took 25 percent of the basic tax. Didn't Fatherland suggest that this basic tax be left in the village? So he can be with the locals? Where you live, you have to pay for the local budget. You want to unite, please increase it to 60 percent. It's anarchy. For a year we cannot pass the land to the united communities from which they are to make money; they cannot plan their planning schemes, do, do territories, do not plan what to do in the business - development community. It's anarchy. And those who talk about decentralization are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u5	Please, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u6	Those who speak of decentralization may have forgotten that you did not conduct any district council members. And the calculator, please count the amount of local budgets you drink, they go down every year. So, colleagues, please let's work systematically on decentralization. And the laws that all budget deputies are proposing today, according to special use, I say again, part of the rent, after deforestation, part of the taxes should stay in place, and that's fair. And what you're doing today is you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Ljubomir Zuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this bill needs to be supported, as it will allow the process of community reunification to be intensified, and real decentralization can be intensified. And what I'm saying is that decentralization is not about spending as much money as possible in local communities, it's about making a profit for the community, and it's about giving it a chance. The other one. Let us also examine before considering the matter, why the process of unification of communities has so far stood still. The point is that we have by law the authorities of the state executive -- I'm talking about district administrations, district administrations -- they have to accompany and maximize this process. And in fact, it's different, in fact, they're not helping, they're sabotaging this process because neither the district nor the district administrations are interested in creating strong communities. Because when there are strong communities, there is a need to give up the resources -- local feuds and local elites aren't interested. And finally, one more thing. By voting for this bill, we vote for it personally for me, on the one hand, to stimulate community creation, on the other hand, it is the recognition and verdict of the inaction and inefficiency of the work of our vertical, which is actually sabotaging decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u10	I'm just going to say one comment: sabotage or sabotage, we're going to see it by voting in the hall. I think that's where we need to look and look. Colleagues, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. From the rostrum, please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u11	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I don't think we're going to solve the problem of creating a united territorial community, if we're going to deal with this administratively, I'm talking about the administration first. They come from what they prefer and thus do. I'll give you a simple example, a community of villages: Chizowaka, Mala Zvila, Kurčica, Krasilovka -- they decided to unite in the territorial community. They have about 5,000 inhabitants, they will be self - sufficient, and they have a good union. At first, each community gave a positive answer, and then an official counted and realized that it wasn't convenient for them, and they were verbally, not in writing, but on the phone saying that this community should call off the election announcement to the Central Election Commission. Otherwise, if they don't, they won't get into the financial plan, and they won't get any help. So people ask me in this constituency: Is this a voluntary union? I emphasize: voluntary. Is this another collective that resembles the 20-30 years of the previous century? So, to my deep conviction, we need to adopt this law as a basis, but we need to remove administrative factors from the impact on the decision-making process. And people have to unite voluntarily, they will see, it's convenient, then there'll be a process of greater unification, but we've put the wagon ahead of the horse. We had to adopt the Territorial Administration Act at least to strengthen the areas and then move on. But we have a big itchy because we have to report for the money that's been allocated as grants to produce these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs to be supported. And I'm more of a Ukrainian citizen, and I'm pointing out that in no way is it aimed at financial decentralization. There is no question of land or rent mentioned here in this bill. This bill is aimed at simplifying financial decentralization and contributing to rural councils that have not been integrated into a united community. And to this day, by damaging the state’s resources, damaging the energy of those who have already created united territorial communities, this law addresses the issue of their entrenching without a corresponding additional election. Thank you, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u14	Thank you. Solovay is one minute. Knazevitch is one minute. Oksana Siroid and move on. Yeah, okay, Burbak, Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u15	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. My fellow Members, I would like to speak to my fellow Members of Parliament and say that the territorial and administrative reform that this Parliament is doing is perhaps one of the very key issues that we have been deciding for years that have not been resolved. Because the territorial and administrative reform that took place in Romania, Poland and Hungary in a timely manner, this reform has become the basis for the development of these countries. Today’s bill is extremely important because it paves the way for the entrenching of existing territorial communities. I'm not going to open up a secret when I say, but Mr. Litwin said he's resisting the fact that communities are supposedly administratively created and so on. No, the process of forming communities is being largely blocked by rural heads who have been elected in previous elections and who want to remain in office until today. And that's true. This law opens this way, it tells us that those rural heads that were chosen remain after.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u16	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u17	This law indicates that the village heads who were elected in the past elections, after joining the united territorial community, remain in the duties of seniority in the united territorial community and retain their right in the executive committee. An extremely important law, I urge everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Ruslan Knyazevich for a minute, then Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u19	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I actually support the idea of so-called voluntary association, but here's one conceptual thing that we can't just go through with our eyes closed. It's about the fact that we're introducing a new species, called the additional elections of rural, rural and urban communities, which, if the community wants to join a rural or a rural or a city community, it has to hold major elections and, accordingly, its deputies will be, as it were, pinched into those MPs that already exist. But if this problem is easily solved in the village and village areas, because in principle, the majority system is applied in the main elections, then there is a proportional system in the city councils, and we have a full hybrid that delimits the process. Or we're going to find the right formula to get out of this situation in a legal way, or this process doesn't matter at all, because, first of all, it's going to deform the city council's face, because someone's going to want to join a lot of communities until the city council changes the situation, and second of all, this city council is going to put a mine of apriorium under it. It's wrong to define.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u20	Colleagues, now two closing remarks. There'll be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please, Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, surely this bill should be supported. I call on him to vote in favour. And to those of our colleagues who are waving their hands around here and feeding us on the next fairies, I would like to point out right away that the overcoming of all the city budgets is one and a half times this year, that the accounts of the communities now account for 62 billion dollars. And by the way, I'm talking to those managers who are distributing local budgets, that this is a disgraceful practice, when instead of funding a trade or a difference in tariff increases, they accumulate money on accounts in commercial banks. Well, that's what we'll be dealing with. By the way, we need to support this bill because I've been fighting in 204th district for six months to form a union of the territorial community of Novodnystrowsk. The violent opposition of the bureaucratic system on the ground should allow us to unite voluntarily. Give communities the opportunity to exist. Let's vote yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u22	Thank you. The Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid, is invited to attend. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the point is that financial decentralization has turned local self-government from slave to host. And people start getting their money, they start understanding responsibility, and they want to take care of the city, the village, or the village where they live. And in fact, this situation is far from popular. And the authorities of the state, especially the authorities of the state in places, and these are the district administrations, and the district administrations are interested in preserving their respective feudal princes and not allowing them to form capable communities. I am pleased that the MPs are giving these examples, and I also know very sad examples, such as the examples of three villages, this is the village of Interiricja, Wolswin and Silec of the Sokal district of Lviv, which have been trying for almost a year to unite at a time when the district government forces them to join the 100th city. Today, these three villages have the tax power of 6,000 dollars per person, after joining the hundreds of thousands of cities, they will receive one and a half thousand dollars per person. That is, a hundredth - century city actually wants to rob those villages that today have the will and ability to work together. Therefore, I believe that we should of course support those bills that relate to the decentralization and voluntary unity of societies. But I believe that today it is the responsibility of every MP to monitor how these laws are being implemented. Because the aberration of district administrations is excessive today, and we should not allow the feudalization of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. We finished the discussion. I would like to point out that several times after those bills, we had a discussion in the hall. There were very sharp positions, but, together with the days before, before we started, we agreed that most of the factions would be supported in the first reading. I would stress that this is the first reading. We will be able to arrange all the observations that relate to the elections that we have talked about and the heads that colleagues from other factions have been talking about for a second reading. In fact, there are no miracles; we will not accept in the second reading if there is no agreed position. We're opening the way, the way to give local communities the right to decide for themselves which communities they belong to. It's the right to protect communities at the lowest level that we have to ensure. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote. And I would stress that this is going to be a vote on the basis. And I'm asking you very much to give us a way to give us a perspective for the development of local communities, to support this bill in the first reading, colleagues. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Colleagues, our MEPs have come to support us. Colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for voluntary association of territorial communities) (No. 4772) as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. I ask you to vote, please support local self-government, colleagues. Please vote on the basis. Please, colleagues. Wait, everybody's not there yet. It's in place now, isn't it? We're voting on the basis, colleagues, please support. Vote. [[16:34:44]] For 230 Decision taken. The decision is made, welcome to the authors, welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, the next bill is actually a technical extension of this law. If we can make a quick decision now, don't leave the hall, colleagues, we'll move on to agrarian issues. I ask you very briefly to consider it effectively. I'm announcing the next bill, 4773. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. First vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:35:41]] For 205 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. It's very thin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes out of a previous bill that we have just voted on in the first reading, so it is also proposed to be accepted on the first reading and there is a proposal without discussion. No, a discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u26	Colleagues, this is an extension of the bill, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, there is one willing speaker, this is Ivchenko, Vlasenko. I give my word to Vlasenko, and then we vote. One statement, please, Sergey Vlasenko, please. And then we vote, and I ask everyone to come into the hall, not out. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law is indeed a logical continuation of the previous one. But let's have such a short 2-minute professional discussion, not a political discussion. And a professional discussion will lead us to one conclusion: in fact, the concept of unifying the territorial communities, which is voted by this Supreme Council, is completely wrong. Wrong and wrong, because both the previous law and this law essentially nullify the so - called forward plans, which are a tool for the forced union of communities, which is a tool for the influence of public administrations on the formation of united communities. Let's face it, let's have a normal discussion, let's adopt a new law instead of patching holes. And by the way, I would like to remind you that during the adoption of the Law on the Voluntary Association of Communities, a professional committee, which I have the honour to lead, recommended that this law be passed without any promising plans, while preserving the real will of community unification. So let's take a look at the wrong concept, let's not rub holes on the way, because there are questions that a fellow member of the legal committee has been talking about. They're artificial, they can't help but come up because we're on the wrong concept, trying to make the right decisions. Yes, unfortunately, there is no such thing. Let us go back to the principle of the universal will of the community. And then we'll take off all the questions. Then we don't need "oil stains, not oil stains, other stains" and so on. Let's change the concept, let the communities develop, let the communities do it on their own, and all of that, voluntarily. And that's where we're going to solve all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. For some reason, many deputies came out. Colleagues, the bill in question is simply a means of ensuring the decision that we made just one minute earlier. Colleagues, I urge you to return to your seats. I urge you to prepare for the vote. This is a continuation of the previous decision, which we have to provide financially, and also only on a basis. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to go back to work. And I'm voting on the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the voluntary accession of the territorial communities) (No.4773) on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Colleagues, please vote. Please support, colleagues, responsible and disciplined. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why, Oleg!? [[16:39:54]] For 210 Sorry, political consultations. We're on our way. We didn't make it. I'm asking you, colleagues, come into the hall, I'll put you back once. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm making an offer. I'm going to remind everyone that they were supporting the foundation. Most factions support, simply come out of the room in a banal way. I propose to return to the 4773 debate and vote on the voluntary accession of the territorial communities. Please vote, please support the return. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:41:06]] For 224 Two votes. I see they haven't made it, I see they haven't worked. I'm asking you to be more careful. Please, I see, I see, Vojciekhovska, that I did not vote on the card. I can see they didn't vote, they didn't make it. That's why I'm gonna do it again. I ask you to push the buttons more carefully. I'm betting on a return of 4773. Please return 4773. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[16:41:55]] For 233 233 for. Colleagues, pay attention! I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the voluntary accession of the territorial communities) (number 4773) on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Please vote. Please support this bill. Please vote on the basis of your colleagues. [[16:42:31]] For 241 241 for. Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee on quality work. And I think all the suggestions that sounded will be included in the second reading. The thought of everyone should be heard by the committee. Colleagues, and finally we're moving on to our issues that we've long been anouncing, the issue of agrarian politics and the issue of ratification. The first one in that block is the draft Law (0106) on the ratification of the Financial Agreement. And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support and please vote 0106, summary procedure, please. [[16:43:25]] For a hundred and 192 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Bucu Yuri Bogdanovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, which is the "Basic Loan for Agriculture – Ukraine" project between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The financial agreement provides for a 400 million-euro loan to expand the financing opportunities of small and medium-sized businesses in the agricultural sector. As you know, access to small and medium-sized resources is currently limited, including in the agrarian sector, so limited own resources are, in fact, very appropriate now and under very attractive conditions. Under the terms of the Financial Agreement, the borrower is the State of Ukraine, which, with the participation of Minagropolitics and Ukreximbank, will transfer funds through the banking system to end-beneficiaries for funding up to the 50th cost of such projects. The project is self-sustainable, the funds will be provided to the broker banks on a pay-as-you-go basis and the implementation of the project will take place from 2016 to 2020. The financial terms of the loan are one of the most attractive that exist in the international market, the interest rate is fixed, about 1.6 percent of the euro's annual, or the floating rate is the YURIBOR rate, which is now negative minus 0.2 plus one percent. A commission, a one-time commission, is not available, a four-year credit-supply period, a 12-year total credit-supply period, including a premium period. The ratification of this agreement is a condition for the entry into force of the Financial Agreement and the form by which Ukraine agrees on its obligation, so please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u30	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u31	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Financial Agreement "Basic Credit for Agriculture – Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the bill as a whole. We're talking about a 400 million-euro loan that will be made for projects as self-sustainable over the course of 2016-2020, the cost will be given to broker banks and end-users on a pay-back basis. What I'd like to say is that our Foreign Affairs Committee has already repeatedly ratified agreements when we take loans, whether it's from the European Investment Bank, or whether it's from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And every time we look at the sample, we see that only 45 percent of the programs that we use. So I would like to use the rostrum of Parliament and call on the minister of agropolitics, and also call on all the representatives of rural areas, farmers, small businesses to make these funds that we are taking actively, and to have a transparent system where there would be a single register of all the programs and projects that we are taking so that any farmer in any village can go to the website and see what kind of program to keep these opportunities from being corrupt. Because we're talking about. very often there is no transparency of support programs, a corrupt component and we need to take European. institutionalization of support mechanisms. In European practice, it is a paying agency or a paying agency, for when money comes in, it is vital that there be transparent and convenient mechanisms. I can say that I was born in a small village in Ganachivka, and I would like to see new jobs available in villages like Ganachivka through such programs, such loans as we take. And four years after that 400 million, we see farmers feel the support of the state -- that's all that matters is that we take these loans. It is the faith of the people, especially in the villages, that they have the support of the state and they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u33	Most importantly, so that farming is not particularly large, the ones that are dealing with families, we have about a million more to make them feel that the state is concerned, they have access to money. They know how to submit these applications, get this cheap funding, and provide work in their rural area. Thank you, I urge the Hall to support this important project.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! Let's have a frank exchange of ideas, is there a need to discuss ratification? We're voting, aren't we? We think we've had a discussion, and I'm asking everyone to come to the workplace and get busy, get ready for the vote. Please, I'm waiting. I'm waiting for everyone to come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, that's why I'm asking if. Who are willing to discuss? Is there anyone else who's light? I'm asking if there's anyone else, if there's no one else, let's do one speech to Oleg Laškov and get to the vote. Okay? Oleg Valeriyovich. Let's do one performance, one minute, let's do one performance, fellows. Okay. Two for, two against. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, if there are many who want it, then I can't stop it. Please, two for, two for against. Please. A fly. Is it from the rostrum or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. Obviously, we need to ratify this agreement. At the same time, I am grateful to my colleague Hanni Hopko, who has drawn our attention to all of us, who, first of all, are inefficiently using these funds. And second, if you look at when this deal was signed, it was signed on December 28, 2015, without a small nine months ago. And that's why when we ask the European Union or our other partners to help us with money or loans, we wait nine months later for the moment we can use it. So let's support and for the future let's work more in harmony both in Minfina and in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u36	Thank you. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u37	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of ratifying the Agreement with the European Investment Bank on the provision of 400 million euros for lending to Ukrainian farmers, small producers. And we want to thank our European partners for being able to do so at a small percentage -- less than one percent of the annual, 400 million euros at 12 years minimum. But I have a question to the government and to the President and to the head of the National Bank, and when we finally wait for our farmers to have the opportunity in their domestic banks to take credit, if not one, for at least three percent of the annual ones, do they have that opportunity today? No, that's not possible, because the politics of today's government is the policy of dehumanizing peasants, it's the policy of destroying villages, the policy of destroying animals, vegetation and all. Let's look at the draft budget that today's criminal government submitted to the Supreme Council. And what we see is that in our dear peasants, they're taking the rest of their taxes, they're removing 20 billion dollars of circulation money that the peasants themselves have earned. Instead, we see in the budget what's called state support, 5 billion dollars. 20 billion were taken, 5 billion as if given. Are any of you convinced that these five billion will go to support farmers themselves, not large corporations of latifundists who will earn more than they can? And the cows in the village are no longer in the private farm, but in the farmers. Last year 2,000 farms were destroyed by the state’s policies. That's why we're asking the government to pay back the country's tax. Hands off the village, parasites!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u38	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u39	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens who are watching us! First of all, I'd like to point out that this is the first bill of today's agenda that will give Ukraine's economy something to support the agro-industrial complex, and first of all, farmers, medium-sized, small-scale enterprises. Dear colleagues, but... There's a little but. Now today, and I'm calling on the chairman to draw the attention of the Ministry of Finance, so that when they report the bills, they will be more carefully prepared and provide the citizens with the right information. It's not the first time we've heard about the ratification of a treaty or with the European Investment Bank or with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and we're hearing about a small percentage. But look at the National Bank of Ukraine and those authorized banks that will then lend. I was wondering, the loans of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and there are three authorized banks -- this is Ukreximbank, the Savings Bank, and the Ukrgazbank -- they're given under 9-12 percent of the year-olds in the currency. Dear colleagues, yes the Ukrainian economy will never be able to repay such a loan. So if we're taking the same initial resource at a few percent, there's a particular focus on the margin and the kind of liberal that banks use to get our producer to have this loan come with the percentages available so that he can serve it, that's the main thing. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will support this ratification and we will always support our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u40	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u41	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u42	He's giving Yvchenk the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u43	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, of course, "Paternity" supports the ratification of the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank. We always talk about helping small and medium-sized farmers. We need to reform the farm support fund into a paying agency that will accumulate all the aid. I'll give you some numbers. Today, there are 51,000 agricultural subjects in Ukraine, 44.5 of whom are processed up to 50 hectares [50 ha]. This is official statistics and official data that came from the State Fiscal Service. Or 86 percent of all those working on earth have up to 50 to 500 acres [50 to 500 ha]. I'm going to give you an example of the policy that the Yatzenuk government made in the past, and you voted for it. If 27,000 subjects were treated less than 500 hectares in 2015, it is now 20,000 — by 7,000 less than or 300,000 hectares. If they had 2 million hectares to process, today they are 730 million acres [730 ha]. Where did these hectares go? Who leased them? Who's the boss? Instead, another statistic says that agrarian latifundists are constantly growing their land banks by 200,000 hectares a year, please. Of course, we vote, but the government needs to review the support: for small, small, up to 500 hectares, per hectare, or per quantity of produce. And that will be the right way!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u44	Thank you. The discussion is over. The discussion indicated that all factions supported the law. And I can put him to the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Basic Credit for Agriculture - Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No. 0106) as a whole. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote in general. Please vote. [[16:57:45]] For 269 269 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee on quality work. Colleagues, we now have three laws in our second reading. There's a small amount of amendments. And that's why we're going to be doing it pretty dynamically. The committee actually asked us to put the second reading first, and then the first. So I'm asking everyone to be in the hall, we're going to have a very dynamic job on these three bills. So I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on By-products of Animal Origin that are not intended for human consumption. (No. 2150a) And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Mr. Grigori Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed for your consideration by a draft draft for the second reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on by-products of animal origin not intended for human consumption (for the harmonization of its provisions in the field of the treatment of animal products belonging to category II, with the requirements of EU legislation) (registration number 2150a). It should be recalled that on April 7, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on by-products of animal origin not intended for human consumption. The Act entered into force on 9 May 2016. The implementation of this law will undoubtedly increase food, environmental and epidemiological security in our country and contribute to further integration into the EU. But some issues were not taken into account, and the lack of compliance was European legislation. In particular, the law provides for the definition of organic fertilizers and soil improvers contained in Article 3.22 of the EU Regulation, number 1069/2009, which can make it more difficult in practice to understand and apply other provisions. The legal methods for dealing with animal by-products belonging to category II do not correspond to those contained in Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1069/2009, which significantly narrows down possible treatment of such products compared to European requirements. And most of all. In fact, the law misleads all attempts at conduct. animal origin, which belongs to Category II, prior to sterilization, is exclusively under pressure. This procedure, first of all, is quite energy-intensive, second of all, expensive. There are 14 amendments to the law, including a total of 12, and two amendments are partially taken into account. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Please support the drafting proposed by the committee of the bill, taking into account such an amendment under the transcript, to present section II, paragraph 1, "Final Positions" in the following wording: "This law takes effect from the day following its publication," and adopts it in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact all the amendments that have been made are taken into account by the committee, i.e. the full consolidation of all members of the committee under the bill. So I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, because we are moving immediately to making a decision. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat, please. Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Gregory. Go into the hall, get ready for the vote, colleagues. Members of the agrarian committee, please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll wait 30 seconds, but if you'll excuse me. We're waiting for 10 seconds until the MPs arrive. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on By-products of Animal Origin that are not intended for human consumption (to reconcile its provisions in the field of treatment of products of animal origin belonging to category II, with the requirements of EU legislation) (number 2150a) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support 2150a in second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:03:06]] For 230 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Let's go straight to the next bill. There are almost no amendments here either, so it is desirable for everyone to stay in their seats. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a minimum lease period for land parcels of land (number 2920). And I invite you to report to the committee's deputy head, Mr. Grigory Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, Bill 2920 was adopted as the basis for December 8, 2015. I would like to remind you that this bill proposes to amend article 93 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 19 of the Land Rental Act and to establish a lease for agricultural land, which are areas of melio-orientated land where hydro-technical melioration takes place for at least 10 years, as well as to determine at the level of the Ukrainian laws the duties of renters to promote the proper exploitation of appropriate melio-mial systems and engineering infrastructures of such systems in the areas concerned. In preparing for the second reading to the Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, 10 proposals and amendments were received from the law-makers of the Ukrainian National Deputies' initiative, 5 included, 2 rejected and 3 counted. In considering the bill at the committee meeting, it was noted that the adoption of the bill would facilitate long-term planning of investment activities and investment in the agricultural sector of Ukraine, guarantee long-term rental of agricultural land and land-use stability. As a result of the consideration of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on 26 January of this year, it was decided to support the proposed bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's decision. And thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, all the amendments were taken into account by the committee. That's why we can go to the vote. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. There's unity in the room. I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a minimum lease period for land parcels of land use, on which hydrotechnical melioration is carried out (No. 2920) in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote 2920 in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:06:38]] For 245 245 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. The following: 3006 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts on the legal fate of land owners. And I invite you to a report by a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u49	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, at its meeting on April 12, the Committee considered a bill of 3006 on amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts on the legal fate of land, whose owners died and recommended it for consideration in a second reading. Following the adoption of the bill in the first reading, 53 proposals were received from 10 Ukrainian national deputies and 20 of them were counted, 11 were taken into account on an editorial basis, 5 were taken into account in part, and 17 were rejected. What is involved in the accounting. We held several meetings at the hands of the experts from Minsk, the Dergeocadastro, the state-owned information centre and the State Land Cadastre Center. These meetings discussed the technical feasibility of creating a system of automatic search for a deceased inheritance as part of a legacy registry. The results of the meetings conclude that it is too early to create this system today. Regrettably, the registration of death is often done without information about the identity code of the person. And so it's almost impossible to make an automated identification of the deceased. Thus, it is proposed to remove the situation from the bill. All the other amendments taken into account are largely related to editorial details of the bill. As for the disbarred rights, they actually apply to cancelling all the money in the bill. Therefore, the committee finds them unacceptable. The bill is detailed and ready for voting in the session room. Therefore, I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this bill in second reading and in general as a bill proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are a few rights here and we have to go through them. I'll make an announcement. 4 Orders, Sold. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. 14th, Anointed One. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the Anointed microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u51	Andrew Amazan's faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, in principle, I would like to withdraw all the warnings and all my corrections are further, because I think a group of experts have been working on this bill very professionally on the committee basis. I had a lot of comments, but we tried to take them out in principle in the process of work and, I think, this law came out in a balanced way that could be supported by voices in the room. So I'm taking off all the other stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u52	Thank you. 17th, Sold. Don't insist. 25th, Sold. Don't insist. 26th, Macola. Don't insist. 27th, Macola. Don't insist. 31st Lensky. Don't insist. 32nd, Levechenko. Don't insist. 36th, Lensky. Don't insist. 38th. Thirty-three. Please, Kulinich, 33 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, there's a discussion in the hall about the 33th Amendment, I'd like to explain. It's taken into account by the committee, but what are we talking about? Today, according to the legislation in force, the community has to pay off the debts of the heir only in part of material and moral damage – article 1231 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. We suggested that the community not only compensate for material or moral harm but also for the expenses of the heir, such as maintenance, care, and treatment. But in order to avoid unnecessary discussions in the hall and to ensure that the bill is voted on in a balanced manner, I, under the transcript, withdraw my 33rd law, I am its author. And I propose leaving the first sentence of part four of article 1277 of the Civil Code of Ukraine as a valid text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u54	Thank you. Next up, 36th, Lensky. Don't insist. Thirty-three copies have just been removed from the body of the law. Just now, under the transcript, it was announced that it was being taken. 36th, Lensky. Don't insist. 38th, Anointed One. He warned that he would not insist, as did 39 and 40. 44th, Lensky. Don't insist. 47th, Macola. Don't insist. And 51st, Romanowski, Vanat doesn't insist. Colleagues, we've had a discussion as to how much I understand the full understanding has been reached between the representatives of all the factions involved in this bill. And I'm asking you to call all the deputies into the hall and we're moving on to the vote. Colleagues, may I put it? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukraine Code of Land and other legislative acts on the legal fate of land, whose owners have died (number 3006) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. 3006 in second reading and in general. Please. [[17:12:43]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors. Welcome to the committee for the adoption of this law. Please, 20 seconds for a member of the Kulinich Committee, Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! I thank you all for adopting a very important bill that will allow you to fill largely local budgets because it is very important now and in the process of decentralization, and in the process of unifying the territorial communities. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to consult you on one question, and now we're going to the first reading block. I have been asked by the deputies to put the 2739 bill, which is in this block, but which is on completion, first. This bill on government regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horsey, and fruity alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. I mean, colleagues, there's a suggestion that we start looking at agrarian sector issues, if there's such a will, I'll put it in. So I think we'd get to it anyway, but if that's the will of the hall, I'll set it up. Colleagues, is this position supported? Yes, I was told that all factions support it. Then, colleagues, I'm proposing a vote to bill 2739 and 2739-1, which is in this block, but the last, to put it first. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote, please support 2739. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please, colleagues. [[17:14:54]] For 203 We didn't make it. All right, I'll put my colleagues back together. I'll do it again. Come on, Krulko, as long as the MPs come in. Ivan. John, as long as the MPs come in, one minute. Please. Colleagues, we're just going into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! Ivan Krulko. I very much ask that we uphold this law. A professional committee headed by Mrs. Yuzanina voted that this law should be supported on the basis and in general. This is a deregulation law that provides for the removal of small vines from the need to buy a license for wholesale trade. Today we cannot cultivate small vineyards, we cannot cultivate a culture of wine production in Ukraine, and we cannot restore those vineyards to the unique ones we had. This law will allow small farms to grow quality wine and have the opportunity to sell all this wine to supermarkets, restaurants without having to buy a 500,000 license that they can't buy. Please support and let us give a gift to winemakers who are now in the wine season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to make another offer. I would like to emphasize that we are simply switching the bill, which is still there, is a request to put it first for the unification of the hall. And so I'm once again proposing that we now move on to the 2739 and 2739-1, which is due to several drafts. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, 2739. Vote. [[17:16:53]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see they didn't make it, the card didn't work. Society! Colleagues, I'll put it back on the MPs' signal, but this will be the last time. We're just taking time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues who haven't got the card, please. So I'm going to put the last sentence on the vote so that we can go to 2739 and 2739-1 right now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, 2739 and 2739-1. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:17:56]] For 228 Decision taken, colleagues. I emphasize that we're in the same block, and we're in it and we're working on it. I think we'll be able to get at least three or four drafts. I'm just asking you one thing: the reporters will be as concise as possible so that we can get through this block as possible. So first of all, I'm voting on the motion for a reduced procedure of 2739 and 2739-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. We're voting on a reduced procedure. [[17:18:45.]] For 205 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vadaturski Andry Alexiyovich. And then there's Bennady Grigorovitch. Please be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u59	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, thank you for this opportunity to protect the vines. I want to explain by this law. We give operators the right to produce alcoholic beverages from their own production and to obtain a production license, to make wholesale trade without obtaining a separate licence. I want to give you some figures, for 2016, 56 entities are doing their own winemaking, and only 4 of them are considered small, producing wine from their own manufactured wine. For comparison: in France, about 60,000, in Germany, 48,000, and Italy, 30,000. That's what I call competition and that's what we see. Now these companies that produce and supply alcoholic beverages pay: first of all, a 780 dollar license and a license is issued for 5 years, and the wholesale trade license, which since 2006, is 500 thousand dollars, just makes the competition unequal, because large producers pay from 2 to 9 copies for each bottle, and from small ones have to pay up to 70 dollars per bottle. I also want to remind you of the examples when they came to Odessa district to a manufacturer who came from France and also in the Mikolai region because they just didn't have that kind of license. I just want to remind you that, first of all, this will give you the opportunity to re-manage production, second of all, to increase sales volume, third of all, to increase production.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u60	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u61	Replace imports. I just want to remind you that today it's just a matter of 2 million dollars from the budget. Let's support the manufacturers who have to work in the shadows today. We'll do much more for the country. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u62	Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Krivoshei Hennady Grigorovich. And I urge you to be concise. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u63	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. The crooked Gennady Grigorovich, the People's Front faction. My colleagues ’ request is short - lived. First. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of Bill 2739. Bill 2739-1, where I am the author, as an alternative, I ask you to remove it from consideration and not support it. [[Applause]] Thank you. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will not solve this problem with a single bill. Because if we're talking about the problem of proper wine production and the granting of certain privileges, we need to understand how people are going to work on the ground: which ones are going to pay taxes, and how, and what costs are going to come to the right budgets in the future, and first of all, I would say, to the local budgets, on this issue. So the People's Front faction will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u64	Thank you. And to my co-report, I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to report on the position of the committee that we have in our consideration of the two bills. First of all, it's very sad that we didn't correct the error that we made in determining the price of the wholesale license for beer producers. And you know how many kraft brewery is now out of production. So let's really consolidate here. Just now, Andrew has given very significant figures about the number of manufacturers. And let's at least start with something: for a small number of producers, let's really do justice, let's do justice. Because to pay 500,000 dollars a year is the same rate as the big producers and the small ones, it's not possible for anyone. Therefore, when considering the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill of 2739 (from 24.04), submitted by the Vadatoursky People's Chamber and others, on the basis and as a whole, as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, I see complete unity in this question. Is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? Can we vote? All right, colleagues. If there are no speakers, I'll put the vote to the vote, please go into the hall and take the seats. I want to say that culture in many European wine countries is part of the social organization of society. I think we're giving very good and good impetus to the development of this wine culture in Ukraine. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products" on the wholesale trade in alcoholic beverages made from their own wine (not purchased). At the suggestion of the committee, 2739 is proposed as a whole. Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[17:25:31]] For 210 Colleagues, some kind of malfunction, my card didn't even vote, my card. I kept her in, she didn't vote, colleagues. It's true, I pressed the button. Fellows, I don't hear you all speaking. And I want to clarify the position, I want to clarify the position, if we have voices in the room. It's like we have the uniformity of all the factions. Nina Petrovna, I'm just gonna set up a deputy to come into the hall. There's no question of discussion, there's just a question of discipline in the hall. Colleagues, I'll put you back. Everyone please come into the hall and take part in the vote, colleagues. Please come in. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration and vote in favour of draft Laws 2739 and 2739-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote for the return, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:27:34]] For 231 We're back. And now again, I'm putting draft Law 2739 on the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Who supports the committee's proposal, please vote, colleagues, 2739 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. Please take part in the vote. [[17:28:08]] For 230 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the authors, welcome to the committee with quality work done. We're going to believe that we're going to give impetus to Ukrainian winemaking. And the next bill, which is in the order of the day, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on land use and meliority systems, 4573. And, dear fellows. The previous bill was adopted as a whole. That's what it was, colleagues, it was. And no one objected in the hall. It's 4573. And I have a request to support the review of the reduced procedure. And I strongly urge more dynamics in our work. 4573, with a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:29:18]] For 201 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich, and I also call for flexibility, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ostap. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Good evening, dear colleagues. You have before you a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of meliorated land and meliority systems. I was going to say that this bill was drafted by the government to implement the Sustainable Development Strategy 2012, the Coalition Agreement, and the Government's Activity Programmes. The aim of the bill is to ensure, at the legislative level, the basic principles for restoring the role of meliorated land in the food and resource sectors of the State, to establish responsibility for the neglect of land and meliorrhial systems, the use of irrigation land in the water regime, the conservation and reproduction of soil fertility, the reduction of the burden on the state budget in the adoption of non-equity engineering infrastructures for inland agricultural irrigation systems to state property. The bill proposes to amend a number of laws, such as: the Land Code of Ukraine regarding the identification of land-based strips with a special regime for use under closed irrigation and desiccant systems for the purpose of ensuring their exploitation, the use of meliorated land for the purpose, particularly irrigation land in the water regime. Also before the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Treatment of Lands of Protective Substations of Mainway Pipeways and the Ukrainian Law on Land Melioration. I see there's not much time. I wanted to conclude by summarizing that the adoption of the law would contribute to the implementation of State policy on land melioration. I also wanted to say that the law. The bill agrees with all relevant ministries. Please vote and support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. I invite the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u69	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 14 June 2016 reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on meliorated land and meliority systems (Registration No. 4573), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to provide for and restore melioritative land, to ensure that legislation for the protection and use of melioritative land and melioritative systems, to preserve and restore soil fertility, to reduce the burden on the state budget, and to adopt non-domestic engineering infrastructures for internal agricultural melioritative systems, to irrigate agriculture and state property. The Committee supports the need for legislative regulation of the conservation of melioritative systems and to improve the efficiency of activities in the field of irrigation, the determination of the legal status of closed melioritative networks, their relation to the main pipelines, the strengthening of responsibility for the neglect of the meliorated land and the deterioration of infrastructure, and the possibility of decommissioning of melioritative systems. The Committee notes that when the bill is being drafted for second reading, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of joint management and the operation of meliority systems through the creation of associations of water users. In light of what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of meliorated land and meliority systems (registration number 4573) to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Sergei Volodymyrovich Hlan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! Please note that the restoration and development of irrigation in Ukraine is one of the priorities of agriculture. There is no secret that the southern part of Ukraine suffers from drought under global warming, and therefore the only form of agriculture is the restoration and development of irrigation in southern Ukraine. The bill reinforces responsibility for neglecting meliorate lands and corrupting the meliorrhial structure. Moreover, such proposals are appropriate for the clear definition of owners of irrigation infrastructure, both within the legal and technical categories, as well as for the acquisition of ownership rights in irrigated lands and engineering infrastructure, as well as for the legalization of such property rights. In order to move to a practical restoration of irrigation in Ukraine, there is a great deal of legislation and regulations that the World Bank is helping us to do. The World Bank is helping us to regulate and prepare legislation in order to decentralize irrigation systems, so that agrarians can create associations that are managed by irrigation systems. This bill brings a lot of good regulatory acts to this very point. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, Beneath Gennady Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u73	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues. First, the People's Front faction will support this bill unequivocally. And at the same time, I would like to highlight a lot of positive things, especially those that apply. on the amendment of the Land Melioration Act of Ukraine, there is a paragraph on the powers of executive authorities and local self-government in the area of melioration, exploitation and write-off of meliority systems. We all know very well how and who influences the places and who, in a way, is being carried out in different ways and in terms of taking possession of these lands and so on. And at the same time, it's very nice to see that the Cabinet doesn't just want to lay down, it wants to make them responsible, and it's not just to take responsibility, but to understand how they're going to continue to manage parts of these land, including melioration systems. So that's a pretty nice thing to do, so I'd like to pay attention to that, in fact. At the same time, it is good enough to understand and see that there are also certain concepts that have not yet been defined in the Law on Meliorization, as well as in the Codex earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u74	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Clearly, this bill needs to be supported, but unfortunately, the timing of its approval is strange. During the past 25 years, a powerful meliority system in southern Ukraine has actually been looted by several key pieces of legislation. First. In fact, this melioration system did not belong to any owner, and those diggers of metal pipes that promised to roll plastic pipes then dug billions of dollars, I'm not afraid of that figure, the unique objects that destroyed the system of melioration. How did this end? In the Zaporozhye region, less than 25 percent of the land left to be actually filled through meliorate systems. The Herson area was a little better, but there were its pipe diggers, who also offered unique designs when metal pipes were cut out and plastic pipes were then never placed in the ground. What does this bill propose? Finally to settle property rights 25 years after this property was stolen. This has made billions of dollars, I think, thank God, at least now we're about to settle the legislative initiative in this way. Our faction will support it, but I think we now have a much more serious problem, which is that now ownership rights and dozens, if not hundreds of criminal cases that have been drunk for years in the prosecution's office, should eventually work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, and in three minutes, there's going to be a vote accordingly. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the voting room. I now give the floor to Moses Igor Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u77	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party It's a very good bill, but for me, it's completely untimely. Why? Because there are no or virtually no meliorrhial systems in the country. They're all looted, destroyed, metallized. And, according to this, we're adopting a property bill, identifying the owner of something that doesn't exist anymore. And here is the question of the law enforcement authorities, where, in fact, on the shelves of hundreds of criminal cases involving looting and destruction of the country's meliority system, and here is the question of those leaders, first of all, the southern areas that allowed it, which contributed to it, that made millions of dollars in money, here is the question of the people who contributed to it, that the lie that would be replaced by a metal pipe into plastic, which didn't happen in a hundred cases. Of course, the Radical Party faction will support this bill, but once again, I would like to emphasize, and I want to draw the attention of the leaders of the law enforcement structures to the need for the definition and punishment of the guilty for the destruction of the country's meliorative system, to the determination and punishment of the guilty because, in fact, the entire infrastructure of our state has been destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion demonstrated that there was general support for the bill. The MPs point out that he is late, but all agree that there is a need to accept him, too late, but accept him. And that's why we can move on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for a decision, colleagues. Can we move on to making a decision? Has everyone taken their seats yet? I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (4573), on the basis of a committee proposal. Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:42:43]] For 216 We didn't make it. Deputy Ostrikov was not able to just run and vote. Deputy Ostrikov, have you been able to vote? Did you vote or not? Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Guys! Andrew! Sergei! It's really wise to get out of the hall, guys. Voting now. Colleagues, I'm offering to go back to consideration 4573. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. If there's no turning back, I'll just reject the bill. Please, who supports the return, please vote. Please. [[17:44:06]] For 219 The bill of Law 4573 was rejected. We can only give it one more time, on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I have announced a decision: the bill has been rejected. It won't happen again. So, colleagues, the next draft of the law that we have in the agenda, 2842 is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of conflicts in the field of licensing. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Supporter, please vote in favour of the abbreviated 2842. [[17:45:12]] For 197 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Woznouk Yuri Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u79	Dear National Deputies, Andry Volodymyrovich. Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of conflicts in the field of licensing. The legislative initiative came into effect after we adopted the Ukrainian law on March 2, 2015, which eliminates the licensing of land-based work. Therefore, in order to ensure that the end consumers of these services are able to do so, it is proposed that we describe in this bill which legal and natural persons have the right to engage in these activities, namely, legal persons, business entities, regardless of their organizational and legal forms and forms of ownership, which have in their possession the value holders of the land area’s expert financial assessment, and natural persons — business entities that have received the qualifications of the valuer from the expert land surveyor. The bill is short, I think if there's such a will to vote for it both on the basis and in general. If not, at least on the ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u80	I invite you to report to the committee's deputy chairman, Mr. Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u81	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Eliminate Contradicts in the Field of License, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Wozniak (Registration No. 2842), considered by the Committee at its meeting on 24 November 2015. The bill proposes to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act and part eight of article 128 of the Ukrainian Land Code with the aim of eliminating contradictions in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities (No. 222-VII since 2.03.2015), the licence for carrying out land-based work has been revoked and it is therefore necessary to align the rule with that of current legislation. The adoption of the bill will help to streamline relationships with evaluation activities and improve access to the market for evaluation services. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft result of the first reading can be adopted as a basis. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, there were no corruption factors in the draft act. The draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of conflicts in the field of licensing, registration number 2842, to be adopted on a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, the reports have been completed. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please. Meduna Oleg Vejacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u83	The bill of deputy from the People's Front of Wozniak is necessary, timely and the faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u84	Thank you for a thorough analysis of the bill. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u85	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u86	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! There's a folk saying, "They were on paper, but they forgot about the enemies." In fact, in the spring of 2015, you and I almost unanimously passed a very important law on deregulation and made appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. But, as always, they rushed and simply forgot that there are other pieces of legislation that simply remain in conflict with each other today. The bill must certainly accept and unlock all contradictions, all contradictions in its possible interpretation, such as article 128 of the Ukrainian Land Code, article 6 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act and the above-mentioned law, they simply contradict each other. Now this bill, which is also proposed to the authors by colleague Wozniak, deletes the requirement that the legal person (the subject of the evaluation activity) be registered in the state register of certified landowners. This is a really justified step because in article 66 with the "1" badge of the Land Administration Act in this register are registered by natural persons, landowner engineers. Well, that's absurd. That is why, without further discussion, I propose, and in general, Andrew Volodymyrovich, to put up, vote. And I ask you to continue, in the end, to exercise your right and continue the session for 15 minutes, so that we can consider question 3190 on simplifying the land privatization procedure. This is an important social bill, awaited by millions of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u87	Thank you. I'm continuing my session for 3190. In turn, I will ask you to hold further discussions on this bill, because self-help has an undetermined position and so hold political consultations before it is considered. From the Radical Party, Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u88	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! It's not just a regulatory requirement, it's common sense that the Defence Committee is engaged in defence, the Land Committee is dealing with land issues, and the Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Committee is engaged in those competences that are related to our objects of knowledge and that's the issue of licensing. So, I want to stress to you that we've been together, and you've supported a systematic reform of the licensing system. And for today, the law that they're trying to bring to the hall here today is a cynical scheme for monopolizing the land assessment market. More than that, how much can monopolism be done? What, they've come to small businesses, they've come to an appreciating consultant? Who are you going to get to the audience next? Stop building these schemes, you can't draw them out, not through a professional committee, but through other committees. It's not just the Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Committee, it's the principle position of the Radical Party faction. On the contrary, we need to open markets, provide, of course, control and control for today, and are provided by the State Property Fund. You don't have to create artificial monopolies under the Statecomme, we won't let you monopolize the markets of consulting, evaluation and other services. Therefore, firmly against and against the future, Mr. Head, write such bills on the committees of profile, and then there will be no such questions. Thank you. We have to protect small and medium-sized businesses and free enterprise with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! I think it's necessary to suggest that we stop rhetoric on this and put it to a vote solely as a basis. It's not the law that starts to argue and prove anything here, they're going to tell the MP it's, they're not going to say, so everything, the law didn't go through that, that's all. We don't need to take too long, and the more we're asked to privatize the land, the next bill is to consider in 10 minutes the question of the constitutional rights of citizens. I would like to see the MP's tolerance for the rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is actually over. But I also understand Ivchenko, please. And I ask the author of the bill to clarify all positions. Please, Ivchenko, in a minute of voting, please invite all the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! See, we have really adopted the Law on the Reduction of Licenses and Landowners in Evaluation Activities. How did we do? First, they licensed a legal person who was in charge of assessing the land and then licensed all the landowners who worked directly in this legal person. We took out one kind of license, we made a deregulation. What does the bill propose today? We have to assume the responsibility of the people who are doing the evaluation work that are bringing the data to the space in the Dergeocadastr. Don't you and I open up and see how land areas are laid down, how in one of the land areas there can be two owners when there are no boundaries. There should be clear criteria for assessing what certificates of conformity they have and who, above all, will be responsible for filing incorrect data. I think this bill is technical it's going to bring the law further down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u93	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u94	I'm asking you to listen to science. Our science-expert administration and the Chief Legal Authority still accept this bill as a basis. And then let's work on where we see monopolism and who will be responsible for the introduction of false data directly into the State Land Cadastre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We're two or three more speeches now, and we're not going to be able to go through the next bill, and there's a lot of demands on it. There was a general position, in fact, except for one faction that could and should be accepted by colleagues. And that's why I'm going to lay the groundwork. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Ready, colleagues? Do you support me? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of conflicts in licensing, number 2842, on the basis. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote on the basis of 2842, please. [[17:57:48]] For 197 Colleagues, we can still try the committee for re-reading, colleagues. Whether or not he supports such a proposal. Our colleagues? Mr. Halasyuk, one minute to offer Galasyuk, one minute. There's no need, is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u96	It's not the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u97	Colleagues. Are you going to perform or not? Please, one minute. The next item under the Rules is the proposal: One more time to the committee. But we have a contradiction: what committee. Please, 30 seconds, Halasyuk, and let's move on to the next sentence. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, if you and I have even cancelled the repairs and manufacturing of partially military equipment and have failed to renew this license, even when the President has defined this law as urgent, why take such unreasonable steps today? So I insist, if there's such a legislative initiative, you have to submit it, you have to write it down to a committee that's responsible for licensing -- the Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise Affairs, and then there's going to be a normal professional approach, not that: pulling on the unknown, what's threatening to monopolize the market for evaluation services.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m1.u99	Colleagues, then let me not go to the committee, but Victor, listen to me, get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative to work. Mr. Victor, I'm asking you to hear me. The proposal is supported: Return the subject to the right of a legislative initiative for further development? Is such a proposal supported? It's not the committee, it's the subject. Is such a proposal supported? Colleagues, I can consistently put all the suggestions that there is. There's five of I choose the one that will pass. That's why I'm putting the first one on the table, which is to get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative to work. Let us unite and support this proposal so that we do not lose the bill. Colleagues, please return 2842 to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. [[18:00:29]] For 214 214. Colleagues, let's concentrate. I'll make that offer again. Fellows, let's concentrate, I'll put it back together. No, no speeches, no speeches, no votes. So I'm putting, I'm underlining, not the committee, but the subject of the legislative initiative. So I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further development (2842). Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[18:01:16]] For 209 Unfortunately, honourable colleagues were unable to find consensus on the bill. Thus, Law 2842 was rejected, and it was rejected by respectable colleagues. And I don't see any reason between us to continue working for 3190, because we can just put it at risk. So we've basically exhausted the entire agenda, except for two questions, except for two questions, we'll be able to ask them in the days to come. I also want to welcome the Committee on Information for an important day, and the Committee on Agrarian Policy, we have adopted almost all the bills that have been passed. Thank you to all fellow members of the people for a productive, fruitful plenary day. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I ask everyone to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue our difficult but necessary work for the State. Thank you. Good-bye.
