ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:13:02]] 355 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 25 years of the history of Ukraine's modern defenders. The modern - day Ukrainian army was made by the efforts of the loyal sons of Ukraine, the true patriots. The Ukrainian army was reborn 25 years ago, but it was formed in 2014 in the Donbasa War Mine. I bow my head to all generations of fighters for Ukraine's independence. Especially before the memory of the heroes of the liberation war in Donbas. This day is a special day of gratitude to all Ukrainian military personnel who are sacrificingly defending Ukraine’s independence and the peace of the entire free world. Dear colleagues, I urge, standing by, to applaud our soldiers on the eastern front and across Ukraine with the celebration of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] We've got a lot of soldiers in the hall who've been through the war, greetings, friends, brothers, and for you. Colleagues, today, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. I want to remind you last Tuesday that we had an unpleasant situation when, unfortunately, we started using a mechanism that some factions didn't record with the hope of speaking last. This leads to misunderstandings and manipulation when I have to determine for myself who and who to speak for and to engage in misunderstandings accordingly. So please, now, as I can see, there are representatives of all the factions in the room. "Peter Prashenko's Block" are representatives, "The People's Front" is, the Radical Party is. "The Fatherland" is, "The Opposition Block" is, "Rebirth," "The will of the people" is. When a recording is done, it means that a representative of each faction keeps a record and the computer itself determines the sequence of performances. I don't want to have that prerogative to define for myself. I want it to be fair that it's the same for everyone and that more of these manipulations of cheap and small, sorry, like in the kindergarten, there's no more in that room. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Everybody agree with me? Will it be fair? It's wise, it's wise. Colleagues, I'm asking you to record the factions. Please record and log in. Please. Thank you for understanding. I'd like to invite you to join us from the "Rebirth Party" group, Billowal Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! I would like to address some of the issues that concern our country today. And one of the issues is the sanitary epidemiological situation in our country. The vaccination situation in our country today is catastrophic. So the state-wide program of immunoprophylactics, which was adopted in 2009, ended that year, and it is not working today. Most importantly, the Ministry of Health has not introduced an updated programme of national strategy and prevention of infectious diseases. I'm just going to bring you statistics for today. The vaccination rates for today have reached the lowest levels in our nation’s independence. Out of 95 coverage. 60 percent of our population is not vaccinated against tuberculosis. The second third is against polio and measles, 4 percent today is against cough and diphtheria. So, Your Honor, I would like to call upon the entire Supreme Council. Andriy Volodymyrovich, we told you on the Conciliation Council that, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, we would consider this issue for government meetings, make specific proposals and solve this emergency today. A flu epidemic came into the country today. It is noted that the threshold is already exceeded in four regions of our country. So for today, there is not enough vaccination, today there are no preventive measures. And today, first of all, we need to unite our efforts, to hear from our Ministry of Health what strategy they have worked out and to resolve this urgent issue. I would like to highlight the main document from the 2017 budget for today. Our group analyzed the State Budget for 2017 and wants to point out that the vast majority of things do not contain incentives to support a domestic producer. I just want to get statistics that we've lost 55 percent of the SND market today, so have we. Export decline is 28 percent. And to date, all those declarations where the government is collecting, wants to collect taxes, are 20 billion. Of these, 11.6 billion, from excise duty on tobacco and alcohol, and 5.4 billion from excise duty on diesel fuel. So, dear colleagues, I would like to urge all of you, the government, to step away from the populist bills. All of this is to unite and adopt only bills that will be in line with the 2017 budget. And the last. Dear colleagues, tomorrow, December 7, Labor Day of Local Self-Government. It's professional for all those who work in rural, rural, district councils, it's the people who represent the national constituency. And I want on behalf of the MP Corps, from our political group, Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u4	30 seconds. I would like to welcome all our beautiful representatives of local self-government, to wish them success in the development of our beautiful and independent Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u5	Thank you. From the People's Front, Burbak Maxim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u6	Mr. Head, please bring the slide to the screen if you can. Dear colleagues! For two and a half years, the People's Front claims a systematic discredit campaign against our leader, Arsenius Yatsenuk, against the government he led. The dirty information attack was organized and unprecedentedly large, and we felt the most cynical black technology that was meant to destroy our political team. Today, Ukrainian society has received shocking confirmations about how corruption money in Ukraine can change governments, kill the trust of effective Western leaders in the highest positions, how it can be used to cheat citizens for their money stolen from the state, to decide their lives, their fate, and their future. It's about state crime when the mob is realizing their interests at the highest levels of government. The Independent published a recent confession by Deputy Oneshchenka, who had been sitting in this session hall. He said that he ordered Arsenius Yatsenuk to be harassed because the Prime Minister was preventing corruption. The customer, Oneshchenko said, quotes the newspaper: "The jacinjuk is our enemy and will destroy everything we want to do. You have to help me throw it away." So Oneshchenko organized video propaganda against the elected Prime Minister. "I killed him in one year," he said, stating that the Jaciny score had dropped from 30 percent to 1 percent. According to him, the monthly budget of $3 million was financed by protests, paid for antigovernment shares, and bribed the media for publications against Yatsenuk, spending, for example, $30 million, almost a billion dollars. Show me the second slide. The overthrow of the government was the purpose of this conspiracy, which involved many who were sitting in this sessional hall. Arsenius Yatzenuk raised the rent to 70 percent for joint ventures that were the breadwinners of Onishchenka. Jacenjuk freed the Minister of Ecology for entering the government of Onishchenko through the quota of the "Fatherland" faction. The Prime Minister refused to appoint a person in executive power who was to provide corruption income from the Ukrainian narrators. Now we know who paid for the white boards against Yatzenuk, the media's order materials, the lying stories of TV programs, the money-bound rally under the Kabmin, the Oneshenko himself confessed to the world in this. We also want to remind you of the cynical part of the company, the discrediting of the Yatzenuk government, the accusations of Gordjenk's stolen 7.5 billion dollars. The PSC then stated, as the first Deputy Prosecutor, that questions related to allegations of government corruption, such as Prime Minister Yatsenuk, had not been confirmed in the course of the pretrial investigation. We want to remind you of Mochanov’s accusation of stealing a mythical billion, six months after the resignation of Kabmin, he confessed that it was a fiction and does not remember who so insistently asked him to claim it for the whole of Ukraine on the air of one of the channels. I want to remind you of the precedents of that lie on the Inter Channel, the statement made by Michael Saakashvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u7	Please add one minute. There's still time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u8	Concerning the statements made by Michael Saakashvili, who was also urged by his confession to attack the government of Yatsenyuk, he was inspired to participate in this campaign, dreaming that he would be promised and would take office as Prime Minister. Arsenija Yatsenuk was also discredited by his decision to stop one of the grand affairs by arresting 1.5 billion dollars stolen by the Yanukovic regime. We claim that now these funds are again trying to steal by reselling 80 percent of the offshore companies where this money is written down. Last I checked, one of these offshore companies already. The same Oneshenko. The corruption of Oneshchenka, Saakashvili, the lie of Mochanov, the deliberate lie of Gordijenko, the thousands of media publications and the stories on TV are all artists. We demand that the U.S. Attorney General name the customer and performers of these dirty technologies. Please consider this an official call by the People's Front faction to the NABU, to the NABU, to investigate all the facts presented in the British newspaper, and to name the customers and performers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u9	Thank you. If there were facts of political corruption, I think it's unacceptable when through corruption money they're trying to destroy the Prime Minister's political forces or any other political system. I believe that these are the facts to be addressed by both the NABU and the Henprosecutor's Office, and I ask all the facts, and the statement that was made by the People's Front, is considered a parliamentary request, to send them to the GPU and the NABU. And I am convinced that it is important for all parliamentarians that the results of this investigation be brought to the public as soon as possible, both to the MPs and to society. From the "will of the people" group to the word, please, Moskalenko Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! There's chaos in the country. The law enforcement agencies are shooting at each other, the prosecution is arresting NABU, and the corruption officials are claiming to be fighting corruption. I do not remember the more unprofessional vertical of executive power in 25 years of independence. Thank God that there are bodies of local self - government today that most of their calling for life to work for people. And today, most of this plow is being pulled by local self - government authorities, holding power in the water. And today's professional celebration of local self-government organs, I want to welcome them from this rostrum. I want to say a few words on the budget. Dear colleagues, the "will of the people" MPs are made up of major MPs. And we have to go to people and explain to them that we can't raise a minimum pension. When we find 4.7 billion on law enforcement, when the funding of central authorities, including the Supreme Council, increases. How can we explain that we can't find funds on them when the Cabinet of Ministers approves Naftogazu's financial plan, where tens of times the government's salary increases. And today, a member of the government from January 1st will receive 1 million dollars. That's a thousand minimum pensions, how do they explain it, dear colleagues. Naftogaz argues that they raise wages to the same level as European companies. I have a question for Kabmin that we can start with a European pension, and then a work plan for officials. The second thing I'd like to talk about is the carnage. Dear colleagues, our international partners are blackmailing us again, that we should take down the moratorium on the round, and we will vote for the no-car. I want to tell you, those who call us to remove the moratorium on the removal of forests from Ukraine, in their countries, it's not the export ban, it's the ban on logging. Italy reaches 15 euros for every cube of imported forest, Turkey reaches 10 euros. Austria, Romania, bans deforestation, and we are recommended to open exports. I want to tell them to build factories in our territory, pay taxes, create jobs, then export ready-made products as much as possible. And this applies not only to the wood but to the entire raw materials base of Ukraine. This is the position of the MP's "will of the people" group. We know that in this room, votes are being gathered to take off the moratorium. We won't vote for it under any circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u11	Ah, thank you, dear colleague. It's from Peter Dustenk's Block, Arthur Gerasimov. He gives the floor to the deputy head of the Irina Lucenko faction. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is celebrating Armed Forces Day. This has been mentioned and will be mentioned repeatedly in their presentations. Our faction joins the greetings of our soldiers. But we ask ourselves a simple question: Have we done all we can to defend the country effectively? We, MPs. On the one hand, joint efforts by authorities, volunteers, and the entire Ukrainian people have restored the real fighting forces of the armed forces. On the other hand, our parliament continues to break into the swamp with essentially political opposition, mutual dirty accusations, suspicions and games. We seem to have forgotten that there is an enemy on Donbas who is ready to attack our unoccupied territory every day, that our Crimean invaders have turned from a resort zone into a beach, a military base that threatens Ukraine and the entire Black Sea coast. According to estimates from various sources in 2015, Russia spent more than $5.5 billion on supporting occupied areas. We've spent less. The enemy is preparing. What do we do? In his address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine called the Law on Confiscation an important source of financing for the defence order in the current year and the debt of parliament to the country. So we think it's time to pay the debts, gentlemen. I see no reason why we can explain the continuation of the postponement of the adoption of the Special Confiscation Act. Our Armed Forces continue to increase our resilience. Missile training was conducted last week, where our Armed Forces are testing important high - precision equipment and antiaircraft. Every day, our boys die in a riot in the eastern part of the country. There have been more than 120 of our soldiers in hospitals with injuries lately. What do we do for them? Is that enough? Do we realize how fragile peace is in the East? Almost every day, we need to think that it's made by the country and us as deputies for those boys who stand for our independence and our peace in this upper room. As we are aware of our responsibilities, let us get to work. Napoleon once said that whoever doesn't want to feed their own army will soon feed a stranger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Now, from the Radical Party, National Deputy Skuratowski is giving the word to the leader of the Oleg Lashko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, it is 25 years old from the day of the restoration of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Radical Party faction, our political team, together with all the Ukrainians, we welcome the defenders of our country. Finally, we all, every Ukrainian, must understand the known truth: the one who does not feed his army will feed another's army. Unfortunately, we pay a great price for the fact that this seems to be the correct truth to our authority too late. Because when Russian aggression began in 2013, the army had to be created from scratch. And today we have one of the most powerful armies in Europe that guarantees our sovereignty and independence. But this army, these fighters who are on the trench front protecting the country, they're protecting it not to be robbed, they're protecting it not to be involved in corruption outside this room. I am returning to the statement of a national MP — a fugitive, a corrupter, a gas magnet named Oneshchenka — who confessed in an interview with the British newspaper that he was paying money to the deputies for voting in this room. He said that 70 deputies received between $20,000 and $100,000 each month for the required votes. He confessed, actually made an appearance with the duty that he was getting this money from President Prashenko, bringing it here, to this room, to bribe MPs. We had one time, a small one, in Parliament after the Dignity Revolution, when this Parliament got rid of political corruption. Then, sadly, she returned here again. This political corruption came from the Bank. This political corruption came with the names of Oneshchenka, Connonka, and the carcasses, which unfortunately were purchased by the same destroyers in our faction. For over a year and a half from this rostrum, we shouted, "We've been bribing MPs, "We've been dealing with corruption," "We've been selling ministerial posts, including the position of Minister of Ecology, Assistant Oneshchenko Shevchenk, whom Oneshchenko bought this job, in order to get rid of the nadra." Then part of their corrupt assets were brought here to bribe the political class. And they pay citizens, Ukrainians at cosmic tariffs, gas, utility and everything. The Radical Party faction calls for an investigation into political corruption — how MPs were sold, who were taking money, who were selling ministerial posts, where they took the money, as they sold Ukraine. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u16	Society, fighters, advocates want to know the answers to these questions. Corruption must be put to an end. Those who took the money should sit down, the purchasers of these crimes should sit down, and the organizer made an appearance. If we don't break this cycle of corruption now, there will be no Ukraine, there will be no parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u17	Please welcome the leader of the opposition block, Yuri Boyko. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainian Parliament, this week is very important to the country and to all of our citizens. This is a moment of truth for Parliament, whether it can adopt decisions that depend on how Ukrainian citizens live next year. We are convinced that the situation can be rectified, primarily by adopting a fair budget. First, the budget should provide a decent level of social protection for the population. We demand a pension of three and a half thousand dollars, a minimum wage of four and a half thousand. The level of social assistance should be indexed to inflation for the last 3 years, or double. Communication tariffs need to be halved. All citizens in need of subsidies should be put in the budget. The previous payments for the second, third, and subsequent children should be returned. Education and health care should be funded at least 7 percent and 4 percent of GDP respectively. Funding should be provided for resettlement support programs. Second, the budget should have incentives for economic growth. Cocorice needs to be formed on a new tax base that envisions lowering taxes, stimulating investments, creating new jobs. Support should be provided for basic industries, primarily aviation, shipbuilding and machine building. Exporters should receive support. An active program of government support for farmers should be proposed. Third, the budget should stimulate regional development. The State Regional Development Fund should be increased to 10 billion. Subsidies should fully cover the needs of regions to provide social, medical, educational and other services. Our faction will insist on adopting a budget for people, for economic growth, for the development of regions. And last time. Unprofessional reform in law enforcement has led to the complete collapse of a system that cannot cope with the increase in crime and protect citizens. This is evidence of tragic events in the Princes, where law enforcement lost their lives. We demand an objective, honest, and just investigation into this tragedy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u19	Thank you. And please welcome me from the Fatherland faction of Alexander Kugel. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! You know, you heard factions and coalitions. And these words, "how far away from the people" just come from a butterfly. You know, you came up with this kind of decentralization that you call voluntary. In fact, they were sent down from the areas, and from the center they had a plan to unite communities. And now we've made up our minds. That in this way you're just going to destroy, there's not going to be any Ukrainian villages. And the Fatherland faction, they all went to the villages. For 12 days, while some traveled abroad, we traveled to your villages, and in our villages, our citizens went to our homes. And what you're saying is they're not interested. Because they're all talking about one thing. You remember that session we stood here and blocked the presidency with only one question. Sir, the President, the government, let's sit public at the negotiating table and talk about the tariffs! MPs, listen and listen, do you know how much gas this time? Tell me if you know! 9,000 200 for citizens and businesses one cube! Nine! Not 6,800 anymore. And because we have in our lives today, that people now as they live?Oh, my God! They shut down their own houses, they sit in the kitchen, they cut off all the landings, they burn down everyone who can! The house has an average temperature of 11 degrees! They've all asked you, regardless of party, to say that everyone, the president, the government, the government, has a personal responsibility if even one person dies of cold, and we remind you of that again. But I want you to hear it again as an MP, because you don't know it, you don't go to people. Because you know what our government did? That year, at 15, they had 7 cubic metres of gas on the house. Now the government changed 7 cubes by 5.5 in the 17th year. When I called the Ministry of Social Policy and asked, why did you lower the social standard of gas, you know what they said? People have become less involved in the use of gas. People are confused. Do you know what they did to people who were mono-persons? In the 15th year, when they counted their income, they counted 1,378 living minimum. And this year the government of Groysman multiplied by 2, and now the family of three has.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u22	40 seconds, like Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u23	40 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u24	And now the family pays, three people, they count the income of 9,000 dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop! We've chosen so many corrupt organs with you. Yegor Sobolev and his team are responsible for corruption. We have to control them and let them do it. We're ready to support any commission of inquiry, but, Your Honor, go back to your constituents, they're waiting for you today for us to review the tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Alexander, I can't break the rules. Mrs. Alexander, it's been 30 seconds, I can't break the rules. Thank you. I invite Mr. Podlisecki's representative of Self-Help to the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ms. Alexander, Mrs. Alexander, this is a bad trend when. [[B in m in s a l in]] One sentence, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u26	Mr. President, I'm just addressing you as a human being. You remember that Yanukovich did not film Zacharychenk. Where is he now? I'm asking you to gather the government, gather the deputies, review the tariffs, because there's going to be a lot of trouble in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Please welcome Mr. Podlisecki, representative of the Self-Help faction. He's giving the word to his colleague, the leader of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Berezuk. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u28	Your Majesty, the presiding lady! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! It's not a secret, it's a fact that the Ukrainian army uses the greatest trust among the people of Ukraine. Why? Because these men and women of the nations perform their duties conscientiously and do not break the oaths given to the people of Ukraine. Why do parliament, the government, not have such confidence in the nation? Because they break an oath given to the people of Ukraine. And that trust will not be if this oath is broken here, because trust is the legitimacy of this power and the ability to be effective. In this room, we underestimate everything, we underestimate people and the state, the highest procedural person in the country, the Attorney General you've chosen, brings the submission to the removal of the inviolability of the Novinsky People's Deputies, and Parliament says: "We don't trust you. Release the Attorney General!".. Today, we tell you, in order for people to have confidence, they must carry out their oaths and deprive themselves of their integrity for the sake of justice and dignity. Today we do not ask, we demand that the Attorney General be put to the voting room to remove the inviolability of the Novinsky People's Deputies. The other one. We demand that the daily Law on the Inviolability of People’s Deputies be brought into order and considered in the Hall because it is our task, our function, and our oath to the people. Today, you're going to say, "self-help" came out of the hall again, and there are such important laws. We adopt many laws that do not work at all, including safety. Today you will adopt the law, accept it, be cool and send out contractors from the army. But you know what will happen not today, but in two years. Today, as the heads of the factions, I received a message and a greeting from the government of Ukraine on the Day of Local Self-Government. Today, you will vote on the Tax Code, which takes money from local budgets, including excise money, which is broken down into fuel when people invest, and communities start investing in this sector. This is a pharaoh and a violation of the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy to the people of Ukraine. And that's why today, in order to help the government and parliament make quality decisions, we leave this room until the Office of the Attorney-General is brought into this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the headship of Andrew Parubi. But let's start with positive work. A few days ago, our colleague Natalia Katser-Buchovsky gave birth to a son. Let us welcome her to this joyful occasion. Natalie worked until the last day, showed a great example of such a responsibility, went to work. May all Ukrainian youths and women be happy and healthy. Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u30	Thus, all the factions and groups have performed the performances. Now we're moving on to the agenda. I want to point out that we have the first block of national security and defence. On the 25th anniversary of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it will be right if we are able to start today's plenary day with security and defence issues and effectively vote on those bills, as the committee of profile submitted for consideration. So I'm asking everyone to come into the session room, and now we're going to move on to making decisions. And the first question we have is the draft Amendments to paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on additional measures to strengthen the country's security and security. Dear colleagues, there's a suggestion from the committee that we consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. So I ask you to take up your jobs and get ready for the vote. So I'm voting on a motion for a reduced procedure for a draft regulation of 5048 on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the state. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:49:41]] For-141 Colleagues, please, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, we can vote, are we all there? I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I once again put to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure the draft regulation on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the state. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:51:09]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Questions to report. Representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Winnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u31	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, Ukraine! I'd like to start by saying hello to the Ukrainian Armed Forces for a professional holiday. So it happened that today it's the institution that protects Ukraine's independence. Not the Budapest Memorandum, but our boys, our girls, who are in the trenches protecting our state, our children, our future. They talked about responsibility, about trust. Indeed, the Ukrainian Armed Forces Institute is the institution that has the highest level of trust in society, unlike the Supreme Council and other branches of government. I agree. Why? Because there is responsibility. You can't take it out of the trench and go anywhere you want, not work, because you have to play some political card. No, you can't leave the trench like that. We can't, but our colleagues allow it. In fact, today we need to consider this decree, the day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in order to establish social justice. Why did this need arise? When the war broke out, the strikers, including us, ended up in the zone of military action, in the zone of anti-terrorist operations. And then Kabmin was set up to provide money at the level of the contractual army. Today there are no timers in the ATO zone. Today, contractors are paid a decent salary, and seniors are taking military training to the rear in order to make a decision or contract in the future, to become a professional military and to protect the country, or to return to civilian peace, and to be on the mobilization reserve. So there's a need right now, there's a requirement that we can't pay the same salary as the contractors in the back who are in the service because we're going to establish social injustice. In addition, I inform society that tomorrow the National Security and Defence Committee will consider increasing the additional allowance for being in the area of anti-terrorist operations in the first and second lines. Because, in fact, those people who are ahead today should receive more money than those who do not know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u32	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u33	So it can be expected that at least 2.5 thousand dollars will be increased by additional money in the first line of the ATO area and at least by at least one and a half times in the second line. It's going to be a committee decision, we're going to go to the government, it's going to be a definite committee requirement for budget adoption for next year. We now need to adopt Decree 5048 on the basis and, as a whole, I hope that we will find 226 votes in this Chamber on the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u35	Please, from the Peter Prashenko Block, the Kobtsev People's Deputy. People's deputy Kobtsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Shinkovich Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u37	Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u38	Thank you, Reverend Michael Valentinovich Kobsev. Dear colleagues, of course, we call for the support of this vital, vital bill. As you recall, on May 6, 2014, when the aggression began, we compared the timers to the contractors. But today we have to restore justice, we have to be honest to say that the contractors there today are on the upfront, there is no balance sheet, and we have to appreciate the work. The great public responsibility of those who today provide us with millions of Ukrainians with peace, who do not allow us to feel the whole problem, is a huge problem of war with all its consequences. So we thank the Armed Forces once again, thank all those volunteers who are there, thanking the forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the work they are doing today, on December 6. And by sincerely thanking them, we urge the hall today to show unity. Unfortunately, not all the factions are present today. We're very sorry to hear about Self-Help, because on such an important day, politics has become, unfortunately, more important to them than the fighters and the officers who are protecting peace today. So we urge them to return to the hall and continue to work because people are waiting for us to work, not political ambitions, relationships, and self - piazzars. People expect us to adopt laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u39	Thank you. From the People's Front, we invite Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u40	Guys, what are we talking about here? Have a conscience! We are these boys and girls who are freezing on the front page, suffering and willing to give their last life for the state, for all of us. You and I are getting so hot in here right now. Have a conscience! Don’t feel sorry for them, support them with anything, even if it’s a little unnecessary to repay them once. Remind them, just remind them that you remember them and do not forget them. Thank you to all the decent people in this room, thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u41	Thank you. From Fatherland Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u42	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the last time this issue was discussed, we invited the Ministry of Defense, along with the Ministry of Finance, to develop a clear framework to ensure proper maintenance, without reducing payment to the sectionals, but at the same time, by raising these payments to those who are currently on the fore. I don't know who served in the army here in the Soviet Union, who served in the army now. But I know who's being called to term: basically, these are rural children, these are orphans who can't be redeemed or taken away from the army. They are people with families who are doing their duty now, not on voluntary grounds, but because they are doing it because they have been called to serve in the military. Our proposal remains constant: we have no right in these people to take away the money they are currently receiving. Today's yearbook is tomorrow's possible front-runner, these people are being prepared for it. That's why we're going back to the Ministry of Defense and Minfin. Without a doubt, the wages and payments of those on the forerunners should be higher in order. So develop this scheme, show what it's going to be like to pay, pay what's premium, including for participating in combat, and then just put it in the gym. And it's just that it's wrong to take from regular soldiers and from those who exercise these powers directly in the back, under any possibility of aggression on the part of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u44	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The first thing I want to do is say hello to all the soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the volunteers with this holiday, first. Second, the initiative is correct and the People's Will Group will support the bill. But there is a question about the benefits involved. premium participation in combat. So they're shooting, they're counting. Sometimes that's the cause of provocation on the front line, and that's what you have to take into account, it's already for the future, because now we're not going to count, I'm going to be with the Ministry of Defense. And the third thing I want to say about the Ukrainian Armed Forces is that we have national MPs who use the Ukrainian Armed Forces against the Ukrainian people -- Mr. Kunicin. This man from 15 to 20 has assembled more than a thousand military personnel in Kiev, just as Janukovich used to turn the 25th Brigade over to him. against Maidan. Thus, this man gathered some thousands of fighters who were housed to crush the Ukrainian people. This is unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Peter Dustenka's block already had an opportunity. There's been a performance. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats, get ready to make your decision. Colleagues, and when it comes to security and defense, I don't think I have to be outside the session hall. Please keep everyone busy. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Decree amending paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Further Measures to Strengthen the Security and Security of the State (No. 5048) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:02:30.]] For 190 Please turn on the factions. My colleagues, I see they haven't made it. I'm going to put the vote back on. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the decision-making room. Colleagues, please, as long as the MPs come in, I'll address the political factions first. Through your secretaries, invite deputies to the hall. The day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, when we're asking questions about our boys' support for the front, it's immoral, it's irresponsible. I'm asking you to mobilize all the deputies in the hall. While the MPs enter the hall, please for one minute, Stephen Barna. Oleg Barna, please. Barna, one minute. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u46	I wish health to all my brothers in arms, volunteers and all those who are involved in strengthening our security, the military-industrial complex. Protecting Motherland is the responsibility of every Ukrainian citizen, an obligation that should not be bought for money or any other preference, because a true citizen should not hide behind the backs of his children or for his wives. And so at this time, every citizen of ours must be prepared to protect his homeland and to serve in the full - time ministry. And so I want to remind you that it's impossible to compare contractors to those in the service because they're constantly on the front. And the savings that are so lacking for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we have to primarily send those to raise the wages that are currently on the forward line in the firing zone to give them double-sized, triple-sized increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u47	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u48	Instead, we need to pay serious attention in order to exclude from the list of military personnel who are not involved in the ATO or military service, such as cots that are far from the war zone or ambulances. And saved money is directed exclusively to improve the country's security. And to the representatives of Fatherland, I wanted to remind them what theirs was.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I will now put to the vote a return to the consideration of Project Order 5048. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Colleagues, we have an army to support not only on air, not only in our propaganda performances, but our direct work, our work in the hall. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Amendment Order to paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Further Measures to Strengthen the Defence and Security of the State. I would like to vote in favour of the return to the vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:07:13]] For 225 One voice, I see, I see. One vote, colleagues. Please be in the room when making decisions like this. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to go back to voting for the 5048 draft regulation on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the state. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. [[11:08:02]] For 234 We're back. Now I'm re-voting Bill 5048, "On Additional Measures to Strengthen the Security and Security of the State." At the invitation of the committee to take a decision as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:08:41]] For 235 It's been decided. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving military service (5337 and 5337-1). At the invitation of the committee, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please consider the simplified procedure. Vote. [[11:09:27]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u50	Dear friends, may I have your attention? At the beginning of Russian aggression, we had a strong volunteer movement. And when our soldiers came to the military, they signed contracts before the end of the special period. Regrettably, so far this situation has not been settled, and part of the Ukrainian territory is still occupied. But there was a legal conflict, where, in fact, people who have served for more than two years on an advanced course can't even plan their lives, they don't understand when a special period ends. You and I adopted a bill a few months ago that regulates these rules. But in the course of this bill's report, contrary to the Rules, it had rules that had been blocked, and the President vetoed it, and this bill was returned to the Hall. A new bill has been registered. On the committee, it was decided that all those who wished could sign it, which is fully in agreement with the General Staff, with the Ministry of Defence and whose purpose is to do the following. Soldiers who, under a contract whose operation has been extended beyond the established periods of time until the declaration of demobilization, have lasted at least 18 months from the date of extension of the contract (those who have entered into a contract in peacetime) for 18 months. And the military officers who made a contract until the end of a special period or before declaring a decision to demobilize and served at least 24 months of military service (those who made the contract during a special period). In fact, these two standards fully cover the problem and address the issue. For reasons that are not clear, there is an alternative bill that repeats the bill, which we are currently considering, which is where the End Positions, instead of two years, have been inserted one year. There's a denial of the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u52	30 seconds? And this rule will once again bring the President's veto. I ask you very much, this is our duty to our soldiers to mobilize and adopt this bill now. Moreover, the committee requests that the hall accept it, taking into account. That we accepted it and there are no great differences, accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Please also put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u53	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Alona Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u54	Good afternoon, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, really, I'm going to remind you of a little bit of the history of this bill. We have people who have volunteered since the very beginning of our activities in the ATO to protect the Fatherland. And they actually gave a loan of trust to all the new authorities, based solely on its possible future achievements. Now they've served more than 24 months, they have a contract until the end of the special period. Well, the president calls it a special period, we call it war. And they don't know when they're coming home and if they're coming back at all, if the war is going to last, God forbid, a year, two, ten years, they're never going to have a contract. Colleagues, we passed with you almost six months ago a bill under number 4689. All the halls, the whole committee backed him up then and we gave them the opportunity to rearrange their contracts if they want to continue their service, or break up if they don't want to continue their service anymore. Unfortunately, the president made a commitment to the bill. And, colleagues, I don't want to talk about politics today, I haven't really talked about it in six months. But we have to realize today that it's a matter of the reputation of our army, of the fighting spirit of our boys, of the trust of our boys who serve there, of the authority that doesn't let them go and let them go, because they're just afraid that they won't be able to either get new ones, or they're afraid of those guys who are about to come back from the front. Colleagues, this is an abnormal situation where they protect their homeland and trust the authorities, and we don't trust them, and the President doesn't trust them enough to give them the opportunity to reorganize these contracts on their own. What Mr. Pashinsky's bill is now proposing. He offers to enable them to terminate contracts, but for two years they will be determined how and when they will be released. That is, not from the time of the termination of contracts, not from the time of the entry into force of the law, but for another two years, i.e. 24 months plus another 24 months. I think that one year can be enough to develop this order to actually identify and recruit new volunteers or recruit new people on a contract. And one year would be a compromise. We are ready to vote in favour of any bill, but we cannot support this rule in the Final Positions proposed by Mr. Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u55	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u56	That's why we put in an alternative bill to bring this up for discussion and say that we can't make the boys wait another two years after they've served 24 months and they want to leave. We can't keep people there who want to go, colleagues, it's insane, it's immoral, it's wrong and it doesn't raise patriotism. Let's let go of the 15 percent that we've actually expressed today that we want to go, and we're going to bring in the others, and we're going to protect the country, just like we've been doing for the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Please record: two for, two against. The People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. He's handing over Auntie Blackwall. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u58	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u59	Aunt Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u60	The idea of the bill was born because of an objective situation in the country. The point is, when military aggression began, people went to the front of life in peaceful occupations, but they went to protect the country. They were forced to sign the contract by the end of the special period. And that's why we, as the Supreme Council, would now have to give them a chance to get out and continue their military professions, and that's why this bill was initiated. But unfortunately, for almost a year now, we can't pass this bill through the Supreme Council, because there are manipulations to block passages to raise resentment on the front, so there are all sorts of rules that are additional, all kinds of alternative bills now. In fact, they would have gone home for their peaceful professions four months ago. But why didn't this happen? Because the Self-Help faction and some of the Fatherland representatives in this bill have implemented standards that no longer make it available for 20,000 volunteers, but for 70,000, including professional military personnel. That's why the Ministry of Defense, Genstab worked, found compromises, immediately came up with this option, and it doesn't just spread to volunteers, it spreads to professional military personnel who signed the contract before the beginning of the special period, and again, they're now freed if the contract is over. But why do all the manipulations rise again? Why did a year come instead of two? These are very important technical issues, all of which have arisen to undermine the adoption of this important law. The point is there can't be an alternative for two years, I'll explain why, because by the end of a special period, the contract is now signed by the military. It is signed because it keeps a permanent place of work, saves wages. And so, according to the body of the law after the last contract is signed, the military officer still has 24 months to serve, which is why two years are prescribed, not one year. If we change two years by one year now, we'll just technically break everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u61	Please finish 30 seconds. Finish, finish 30 seconds, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u62	We're just going to break this bill legally, systematically, and again, we're going to have to veto it, and again, it's manipulations to just tear this vote down so that the guys don't get fired so that the volunteers don't get fired. I'm asking everyone on the front to pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u63	Thank you. By "Fatherland" Vlasenko Sergei. He's handing over Cugel Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u64	I understand Tetjana's pain, because she's right, and this is the man who stood with us from the first and the last day and on the Maidan, and gave away the most expensive war. But, Your Honor, these guys who signed these contracts are volunteers who went to war when they promised to end the war in two months. So they signed the treaty by the end of the special period. We think they should be treated humanly. Now think about their children, their women and their mothers, they've all made a request, give them the right to decide for themselves. I remind you, Mrs. Tetjano, that the first bill was prepared by Alona Skrum, and you know that the President vetoed it. Which, thanks to you, was voted in this room, but the President was committed. Unfortunately, we are with you and Mr. Pashinsky, and we are again preparing new bills to solve this problem. But I want to point out that in Mr. Pashinsky's two more years these guys have nothing to lose their goodwill for, and we're proposing as a maximum of one year that they be determined and have the right to voluntarily or sign a contract to continue, or to return to their own families. Please support the Bill of Tyre One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u65	Kishkar. It was called a last name. Replica, one minute, Pashinsky, then Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, this whole show is about one thing: that the law that our volunteers are waiting for is now solemnly under the screams and shaman dances will be broken. This law, once again, I want to emphasize, agreed with the General Staff, with the Ministry of Defense, round tables have been held. There are people sitting there who are demobilized and who are now here to support their boys who are serving. I'm talking to all the soldiers. You're about to see such a necessary bill broken cynically. I'm asking you to support everyone. You'll be feasting on other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u67	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I really agree, Sergey Volodymyrovich, that the law can never be broken. In no way can this law be broken. But it turns out that people who spent 2.5 years on the front, in front of them, today are going to have to stay in line for two more years. If you don't mind. if you let me change the number one. Two years for one year, no questions will arise in this room. Listen! At this time, the deputy minister is, this time is enough to carry out the mobilization and to move normally, and to involve new people for the population in the ATO area. If not, tell us why you are not enough. You're so cleverly reporting that 64,000 people are involved in the service. Let's change, put this amendment out of the voice and vote. I'm sure all people support it. Sergey Volodymyrovich, one year, if you please, and that will clear all questions. Guys, is that how you're gonna do it? So I'm asking you very much to support this bill in any way and to make an amendment out of the vote for one year. Who? Ivan, you're gonna talk, right? Then let John Winnick read the amendment out of his voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u69	Thank you. I'll give the word to Winniku, I'll give it to you later. It's Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u70	This bill we've been waiting for a while, as promised last time, when we couldn't beat the veto. The committee promised us to consider this Sunday. And we are all equally grateful that they have just handed it over. Indeed, both bills need to be voted on so that at least one can pass. But I do urge you to support the bill with one. That's it. He's more fair to a soldier. Please, everyone, if there is any possibility of making changes, and no, vote on Bill 5337-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u71	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Mosiyczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u72	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Today, on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we have no moral right to break this bill, because it will be a spit from Parliament, as we say, a warring country in the face of our Ukrainian soldiers. So I urge you to make changes now, find compromise and vote this bill, because if it's not voted, then the Armed Forces, the Ukrainian soldiers, the Ukrainian volunteers, who went to fight and defend the country on the first day, will think that it's not the parliamentarians, it's the neck-leiqa and some kind of barrier. So we're looking for compromise and we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. Please come into the hall. I'm going to give a representative of the committee a speech. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. And I would also like to stress the importance of this bill. Today, it is popular to speak on behalf of volunteers. I can tell you that the volunteers went to the front not because someone promised them something, or whether in two months the war would end, or in two years, but because there was no one to fight at that time and there was no one to take up arms and actually go against the enemy. These boys, thousands, tens of thousands, have fulfilled their duty to the country. And our responsibility today is to enable them to determine whether they continue to serve on a contract or return to civilian occupations. For almost six months, this bill can't be adopted because we're having discussions, which are more political than debates, which would predict thought and pain for those guys who are ahead. I'm counting on us to find a common ground and come up with a positive solution. I ask the representative of the committee to express a position that would unite the entire room so that we can go to a successful vote. Please, Mr. Winnick, make a proposal from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, what the discussion is about. We have two categories, two categories. The first are soldiers who made a peace-time contract, and the second is volunteers who, at will, in time of war. The first category, if they have served 18 months during a special period, is entitled to terminate the contract if they no longer wish to remain in the ATO. The second category is 24 months of volunteer service. That's what the discussion is about. There is an appropriate paragraph in the Ending Positions that the release of such military personnel from military service is carried out at the request of military personnel within the terms and limits defined by the central executive authority, which, in accordance with this law, directs military formations, no later than two years from the date of entry into force of this law. What does that mean? Well, of course, the logic here was not to impose a total of 25,000 military personnel leaving the service at the same time, exposing the front, the idea of setting up two years of application of this law. But I agree with my colleagues at the Fatherland faction that this term should be reduced to one year. So from the committee, I'm putting under the transcript, "not later than two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u75	Please, just a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u76	From the day of taking effect by this law" replace by.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u77	I asked you to wait a second. I'm adding one minute, and you make a clear proposal to our law under the transcript. And I'm asking you to let me know if with this right we can vote in general. Please give me a call. Your microphone is on, you have a minute to make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u78	In paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions, the last paragraph, which now reads as follows: the release of such military personnel from military service is carried out at the request of military personnel within the time limits and limits determined by the central executive authority, which, according to this law, exercises military leadership, no later than two years from the date of entry into force of this law. Replace the last part: no later than one year from the date of entry into force of this law. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Now the author of the second Alona Skrum bill, do you agree with this right? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u80	Friends, thank you for such a constructive discussion, I'd like to withdraw my bill. And really, let's vote first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Colleagues, and I want to ask the committee and the hall: can't we vote for it in general? We can. With this right. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It's a responsible vote, a responsible bill. I ask you to call to the Hall and representatives of the factions and representatives of the Apparatus. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the order of military service (number 5337) with the right to be read under the transcript by a representative of the committee, MP Winnik, on the basis of and in general, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:29:33]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed. Thank you for the constructive discussion. This was an important step that Parliament had taken. And symbolically, it took place on Armed Forces Day. So, honourable colleagues, let's move on to the next draft of the law -- 2,504a (deputy), this is the second reading. This is a draft of the Law on the Single Register of Military Obligations. The right is not a large number. I'm asking you to stay in the hall. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Shepherd Taras Timothyovich to report. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the committee’s bill actually takes into account any amendments made to the Hall regarding the limitation of databases relating to cross - border crossings relating to the databases of the Ministry of Education, according to the Ministry of Health. A number of technical amendments have also been introduced, which we believe will in principle significantly improve the bill. And he is unanimously supported by our committee in the form that you are given in the hall today. So please support. And I'm ready to give you answers for amendments that have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, thank you. Let's go to the right. But, Mr. Taras, tell me, how many rights have been rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u84	It's about 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u85	I'm just not marked. All right, so, number 10, People's Deputy Guljav. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 11th, Levenchenko. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 12th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 16th, Walking. Don't insist. 19th, Bereza. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 21st, Levechenko. Don't insist. 27th, Walking. Don't insist. 35th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 33rd. It's written that counts 33rd. All right, 33 corrections, please turn on the microphone. Rybchin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u86	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The "Fatherland" faction will continue to vote on the second reading of this bill and suggest that it be returned to work. As long as it's not guaranteed that this register won't be the same as the resettle register, when the Ministry of Finance sold the residence records to the collector's firm. And now all of the movers, I apologize for the non-parliamentary word, "shock" simply on the full program of collectors who have an office in Moscow. And those apartments that stayed with the settlers in Donetsk, Lugansk, and all those documents, they were in danger. I'm very afraid our boys won't have the same thing. So please, as long as we don't guarantee it, the Fatherland faction will abstain from this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u87	Please comment, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u88	Well, there's the Ministry of Defense here, and I think it can give a full and comprehensive answer. That's the first one. The other one. In contrast to the military record, the very base of the military register is much more secure than the base that you just mentioned, Mr. Alexei. So, well, I'm in charge of the Ministry of Defense, obviously I won't have any guarantees here. But the question is that access to this base as a whole, as it has a complete picture, has a very limited circle of people, as far as I'm aware of the base. Well, these are the units you can count on your hands. That is, setting up each person here is much easier and more responsible. Taking such risks into account, anyone who does this will realize that this responsibility will soon take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u89	Thank you. I'll let you finish speaking to the Ministry. But one minute, Belkova, please. Turn on the microphone. It's already on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Head! I'd like to ask for confirmation of Amendment 3. I'll explain why. The Constitution clearly defines what data and in what cases all citizens of Ukraine are to be gathered, including military bounds. In the first edition of article 7, the law provided a clear list of all the information. At the same time, Amendment No. 3 gives us some unagreed position. It is not clear who will determine the order in which the data is collected. This is a danger to the constitutional rights of citizens. Thank you very much. At the same time, I support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Mr. Taras, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u92	That is why the third amendment appeared. Because personal data are clearly defined by the Personal Data Protection Act. And to duplicate this list of personal data in another law, we think it's inappropriate. Because if changes are made to the Personal Data Protection Act, these changes will automatically have to be made here. So we went in a more uniform form. And we think it's going to be both legally correct and more sound in this law. We can leave this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u93	So you insist, you insist on voting and confirmation. The third amendment was counted or rejected? It's accounted for, supported, for confirmation. Dear colleagues, I'm putting in a proposal for a national deputy in Belkovy: 3 amendments for confirmation. The committee requests that the amendment be supported and left in the text of the law, a colleague. So whoever supports the committee's position so that the 3 amendments remain in the body of the law, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:36:19]] For 106 The decision is not made. And we're actually done talking about the revisions. I now give the floor to the Deputy Defence Minister of Pavlovski Igor Valentinovich for clarification. Please turn on the microphone. One minute, please, the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Thus, the Ministry of Defence has carefully considered and worked, made proposals for appropriate changes to legislation. The Ministry of Defence fully supports the bill and asks the national MPs to accept it. Why? Because we see what principles military commissioners are working on today. Everything else that has just been expressed by distinguished national deputies is governed by another law. And the data on which the application is made is all that is necessary to determine the military required to appoint him to the appropriate position. This corresponds to the account data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. In fact, all the amendments made by the people’s deputies were taken into account. This bill is supported by the Ministry of Defence. The committee carried out quality work for the second reading. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for a decision, to support the Ministry of Defense, to support a profile committee. So, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? I put to the vote the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Bindings (number 2504a) in second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:38:55]] For 184 Colleagues, I can put a second sentence on re-reading. There's a very big gap. I'm going to put the second reading again, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues. There's no two for, two against, that's a second reading. We're just looking at amendments, colleagues. Do you support the second reading again? Do you support "the will of the people," "the rebirth"? Colleagues, please concentrate and come into the hall. I propose that a second reading of the draft Law on the Single Register of Militaryly Bindings (number 2504a) be sent to read again. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. So that we don't lose the work the committee did. [[11:40:20]] For 203 203, colleagues. Let's do the factions. Turn on the factions. The factions. "Block of Peter Prashenko" – 85, "National Front" – 62, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 14, Radical Party Laska – 13, "Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 8. Colleagues, do you say we have the potential to make a decision? Make an offer, please. One minute, Kishkar, let's give it to the military. And one minute, the coast. Give suggestions on how we should act. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u96	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. The suggestion is very simple: ask the chairman to invite "self-help" in a corridor that supports both ideologically and on any side of the bill. The first person in the drafters of this bill is Taras Shepherd, who is highly respected and loved. And please, and Tarasa, and please contact Self-Help, let them return to the Hall and support the law necessary for the State to provide the army with the mobilization training necessary to speed up the victory on the front with Russia. Do you understand? Therefore, please contact them with a normal, human request to enter and perform your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u97	You've just turned around. Please, Bereza. Turn on the microphone, Yuri Berez, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! This law, the adoption of this law, opens up horizons for us to create a new mobilisation system of the state. This law makes corruption impossible in the military commissariats. This law will allow us to make the right use of all the habits of military personnel in previous years. This law will prevent untrained boys from being sent to the front line. And you know, I'm addressing all the national MPs right now. If we don't now adopt this law, we're pushing back the army reform, primarily the mobilisation reform that our army needs as air right now. Once again, we take the moment and influence of the military commissioners to go where the state needs to serve.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u100	And so, honourable national deputies, of all the factions that are now in the buffets, in the towers that give interviews, finally return to the hall! This law is needed by the Ukrainian army! Don't embarrass yourself! Today is the day of the Ukrainian army, it must be voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, in a minute, I'll make an offer to return to the vote. This is the time when all factions can invite deputies into the decision-making room, and I hope so. In a minute, there will be a decision, a minute is given to Sergey Melniczuk, and please invite everyone to the hall. Please, one minute, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u102	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Dear colleagues, the law is essential. I had to deal with this on my own when the district trooper gave all the bank cards to the separatists, and I had a problem getting the databases of the locals, and that was a problem, and I couldn't call local citizens. Therefore, the creation of such a database is essential for a normal mobilization process. I urge everyone to return to the hall and vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u103	Colleagues, we've heard our military calls, in fact, those who volunteered in the first wave to the front. And I'm asking you, out of respect for all the boys on the front desk, to go back to work. Colleagues, please, everyone, please take your seats. I'm going to put a motion to the vote now. I'm going to go back to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm putting a motion to vote, to go back to voting for the draft Single State Register Act. I'm going to make an offer that you've made. On the one national register of military bounds (number 2504a), the proposal to return to the vote for the bill. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Support me. [[11:46:17]] For 231 Decision taken. We're back, colleagues. Colleagues, now I can make another proposal to the committee, I ask everyone to return to the hall, colleagues. I'm going to re-read it, I think that's the only way we're going to get votes, colleagues. Yeah? The committee, the second one again, so we don't fail? It works, doesn't it? Come on, Sergei, I'll put it once or twice as it was. First, I know, you don't vote, first, for the committee, then for the second time. Two votes, everyone, please remain seated. I make the first proposal, the committee’s proposal, the draft Law on the Single Register of Military Obligations (number 2504a) to be adopted in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please, we vote, we support our military personnel. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:47:32]] For 217 And I'm putting the next proposal on re-reading. Everyone, please concentrate, come into the hall. The draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Bindings (number 2504a) for re-reading. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:48:05]] For 236 Decision taken. The Law was sent for rereading. Colleagues, we now have the section "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." I'm asking you to focus, stay out of the room, it's going to be a short five to seven votes. You all had a list of them. Now I'm asking you one thing at a time, so that we can get through them, and for which there's room support, we've incorporated into the agenda. I ask you not to leave the hall, there will be seven votes now without discussion, and I will put them to the vote in stages. So the first 5336 and 5336-1: draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Colleagues, I ask that you only support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5336 and 5336-1 sessions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:49:25]] For 218. I can do it again if we feel like we can mobilize. Please come into the hall, please prepare, I'll put 5336 and 5336-1 in the agenda. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support me. Vote. [[11:50:06]] For 229 Decision taken. 5425: Draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary allocations for the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (5425), Colleague. Please prepare for the vote, please support. 5425, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please. [[11:50:50]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Next, 5445: draft Law on Demonopolization and Market Principles for the Functioning of the Spirit Industry (5445). Anyone who supports the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:51:24]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Promote Capitalization and Restructuring of Banks (to improve procedures for simplified capitalisation and restructuring of banks). [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not a discussion, it's an inclusion in the agenda of the session. Discussion during the discussion. Now we're just putting or not putting into the order of the day session. Colleagues supporting inclusion in the agenda of the 5388 session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:52:20]] For-187 The decision is not taken. 5222 is next, this is the draft of the Act amending section VI, paragraph 33, of the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for the expansion of the experiment on financial security for reconstruction, the current repair of the roadways of general use of state importance in Ivano-Frankivsky, the Zakartat region and the continuation of the experiment in other areas), colleagues. 5222, just for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, 5222 support, colleagues. Vote. [[11:53:18]] For 209 I'll put it again if there's any reason to think that the votes will come together. Thus, 5222 are included in the agenda of the day session, colleagues. Please support, please vote 5222, please support. Please vote. [[11:53:58]] For 206 The decision is not taken. 5350: Draft Decision on Measures to Protect National Interests, National Security, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine, Countering Terrorist Activities (5,350), Colleagues, please concentrate, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session, 5350 please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:54:49]] For 199 I'll put it on the vote again, colleagues. 5350: Draft Decision on Measures to Protect National Interests, National Security, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity, Combating Terrorist Activities. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support, it's just getting into the agenda. It's not a decision, colleagues. I ask you to vote, I ask you to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:55:32]] For 196 Thank you, colleagues. Next. Let me finish, two to go, and then I'll give you my word. So the next is 5428: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose property is located in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. 5428, colleagues. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5428 session. Please vote. [[11:56:47]] For 214 214, colleagues. I'll do it again. Please consult. Because, I see, all the factions are backing up, we're just missing the physical voices. Colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs. I will once again put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose assets are located in the ATO. 5428, colleagues. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please support me. [[11:57:42]] For the 220. 220, colleagues. Six votes missing. I don't understand. We didn't make it, yeah. I have a question about whether there are political warnings or if there are just no voices. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Mobilize the hall, committee! My colleagues, I'm putting it to the vote again. There are literally few votes missing. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings, which are located in the ATO area (5,428). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please be disciplined. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[11:58:48]] For 222 The decision is not made. Next, last, 5482: Draft Act amending the Law on the State Budget 2016 (for subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies). Integrating the agenda of the day session, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, 5482, for the agenda of the session, please support. [[11:59:32]] For 217 Colleagues, 217. I'll put it to the vote again. Now I'm just asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. 5482, colleagues. 5482. Once again, I propose to include in the agenda a decision on Ukraine’s State Budget on subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies (5482). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please, colleagues, please back up. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:00:33]] For 224 Two votes. Please come into the hall. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. I see. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'm voting again. The MPs have come to the hall. 5482 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, come into the hall, please. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:01:16]] For 221 They're gone. Dear colleagues! I'm going to continue the session for literally a few minutes. One minute, Knyazevich, please. A bill of judicial reform will be important. And then one minute to Irina Heratchenko. And we're finishing our meeting. Take a break. Please, Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u104	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to thank you for making a very conscious decision to include two bills in the agenda of the day, one of which has been designated by the President as urgent, the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine. But at the same time, the next bill under registration number 5425, which is also recognized by the President as urgent. And we can't help but react. Because it is a direct constitutional imperative that requires us to include them together in the order of the day. This is the next bill that provides the financial basis for the work of the Constitutional Court. So, if you please, I would ask this bill, which is of a purely technical nature, it should be part of the Constitutional Court Act itself. But you know that according to the law, changes to the Code of Budgets cannot be made in a law other than the law amending the Code of Budgets. So we had to break up these two bills. But the first bill without another bill will not work properly. So if we really want to make a serious reform of the queen’s constitutional jurisdiction, we must do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u105	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u106	These two bills are to be considered together. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, 5425 would be required to include it. Because then there's no point in looking at this important piece of legislation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u107	Mr. Ruslan, I can put in 5,425 now, right? 5425, if you invite MPs, including your faction in the hall, I have the right to reposition it. And I'm asking all my colleagues to take up jobs. I think everyone heard the suggestion and request of Ruslan Knazevitch. And I'm once again proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of Law 5425. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5425 session. Please vote. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[12:04:00]] For 184 The decision is not made. This is the position of the hall. This is the discipline of deputies. Now, colleagues, one more minute to announce. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, December 3, the world celebrated the Day of Disability. On this occasion, two exhibitions take place at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the third floor there is an exhibition on the occasion of the International Disability Day by the All-U.S. Disability Organization, the Union of Disabled People's Organizations of Ukraine, with the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATOs and People with Disabilities. And it's organized not only by an exhibition, but also by the possibility of acquiring such works of decorative art, including those made by children with disabilities. On the second floor, there is an exhibition organized by the Health Committee, together with the Ukrainian Association of Disabled Persons, participants in the ATO. And it's going to be sold like this, the Unaccelerated book, and it's going to raise funds to rehabilitate the victims in the ATO area. We invite all of you to attend these exhibitions now and perhaps join in the gathering of these funds. Thank you for your attention and ask for a break to use to attend two exhibitions on the second and third floors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u109	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue our work at 12 o'clock, 35 minutes. Please be advised to arrive at the hall at 12.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and get ready for work. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that we have the next ones in the day-to-day issues of local self-government. I want to remind you that tomorrow is the Day of Local Self-Government, and the Committee and the government have recommended that we move some of the issues of local self-government to Tuesday, because Wednesday we may not be able to see them all. And three bills were tabled today's plenary day. And now we have two bills of second reading 4676, 4772, which are very important for us to be able to organize the legislative field before the elections are held in local communities. And I'm asking you again to invite a colleague into the hall. And I announce the move to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary integration of the territorial communities (4676). Please prepare the amendments for discussion. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovic. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u111	According to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, more specifically, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered, at its meeting on November 2, 2016, a statement and proposals that came from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Law of Ukraine to amend certain legislative acts on the conditions of regional change in the voluntary integration process of the territorial communities (registration number 4676), submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Boykom, Fedoruk and Kuril, and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine following its consideration in the first reading on September 8, 2016. For a second reading of the bill. I'll briefly remind you of the essence of this law, what it is, its basic idea. It is designed to allow territorial communities to unite within one area, but they are located in different areas. To consider the bill, a second reading of 13 national deputies offered 25 suggestions, six of which were proposed to consider, seven to be edited, three to be taken into account in part, and nine to be rejected. The Committee's general discussion concluded that it recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, recommend a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the conditions for the change of the boundaries of the regions in the voluntary integration of the territorial communities (registration number 4676) as a result of the second reading to be adopted in the second reading and in general. The final draft of the bill is organized with the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, and we propose that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government be entrusted with the preparation of it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, with the technical and legal development of the bill. I suggest we support him and move on to the revisions. Yes, the report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to the right. And I'm asking a colleague to invite the deputies into the hall. So, number one, People's Deputy Dentist. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 3rd, Odarchenko. Is it insisting? 3 repairs, Odarchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u113	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, for many months now this so - called voluntary union has been going on, and we see that the goal is not decentralization but, in fact, megacentralization of power and the creation of conditions that will not allow the rural councils that now exist in Ukraine to develop further. Everything is being done to destroy the settlement network in Ukraine. And I'm convinced that it's a conscious policy today to destroy villages and villages in Ukraine, but it's all covered up by these kind of beautiful slogans that have to do with creating good conditions for Ukraine's development. This law cannot be accepted at all because it destroys the system of local self - government. I suggest that the MPs be very thoughtful and not vote in favour of this bill. It's not my job, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u114	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm sorry, I just had another table. Let's move on. 2nd National Deputy Mishchenko. Is it insisting? I would like to remind you that we are considering Bill 4676, the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities (4676). Next. 11th National MP Gusak. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u115	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Head! The title of the bill refers to voluntary unification of communities. This seems to be such a mistreatment of those who are united. Because the vast majority of the promising plans approved for the submission of district government administrations have nothing to do with people’s thinking. What is more, no one usually asks the opinion and no discussions are held. In my amendment, at least it's about changing the boundaries of the districts that we were having a public discussion about. And so we all have decisions about this one way or another for the head of the district administration, a reminder that is assigned to Kiev. And what local self-government, what decentralization are we talking about? I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Mr. Mikolo, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u117	The thing is, there's nothing to do with the decision to change the boundaries of the districts being made by some administration. The change in the boundaries of the regions according to the Constitution is accepted by the Supreme Council, that is, we are with you, and the proposals are made by the relevant authorities. Without the decision of the Supreme Council, there can be no change in the boundaries of the districts. So there's a proposal to reject the amendment. It's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment and did not support it, but the national MP, Gusak, insists on voting. So whoever supports the 11th amendment of the people's deputy Gusaka, please vote. Please vote. [[12:50:03]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 14th National Deputy Mishchenko, does he insist? No, it doesn't. 16th People's Deputy Tooth. Don't insist. 17th National MP Odarchenko. Is it insisting? He insists, doesn't he? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, in the near future -- the 11th, the 18th -- elections will be held in united communities throughout Ukraine. And there are a lot of ideologists in this room who represent both the People's Front and the Peter Poshenko Block and other parties who were ideologists and inspired, so to speak, supporters of this process in general. I want you to see what candidates for the MPs are out there in the united communities. No representative from the People's Front has nearly no representatives from the Peter Prashenko Block. These parties do not put candidates on the floor; they understand the consequences of this program, these changes to legislation, this is a union. They realize that this is aimed at destroying the settlement network and therefore do not want to take responsibility. "Paternality" does not explicitly support the process of involuntary, forced union of communities, and that is why we are behind this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u120	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u121	Basically, it's a fix. The author proposes to send into the airless space the settlements that are located in one area or another. And with regard to political participation, your information does not correspond to reality. The People's Front is taking part in the election of the united territorial communities, and I'm responsible. Do not mislead the public and the people. Therefore, please do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u122	Do you insist on voting? Thus, Amendment 17 of the Odarchenko People’s Deputy, the Committee does not support it, but the National MP insists on voting. Whoever supports the amendment of the 17th People's Deputies of Odarchenk, please vote. Colleagues, please support. Oh, please vote. [[12:52:40]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next, the 19th Amendment of Odarchenka. Is it insisting? Yes, please 19 amendments, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill completely destroys the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. He suggests that a united community be allowed to exist in several areas at once. I have a simple question: To what jurisdiction will the district court refer to disputes in such a community? To what district council will they choose their representatives? What district government will they subordinate? It's ruined, I want to emphasize again, it's totally destroying local self-government here. We have in the local council elections district councils elected by constituencies, which are calculated according to the population, and by principle: at least one member of the community. The bill suggests that even after an interdisciplinary union is formed, the members of the district council remain the same. In fact, we're going to have MPs who don't represent anyone. It's moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u124	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u125	Proportionality of territorial representation is affected. So let's not chase horses. All interdistricts should enter into force only after the elections in the appropriate district councils, in turn, or out of turn. Where are we in such a hurry, tell me? Would you like to move to the market for land sales by destroying the rural population and destroying the village councils? That is what you should call your goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u126	Please, Mr. Mikolo, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u127	The point is, where the issue of jurisdiction will be resolved. Decisions will be made where the center of the newly created united community is located. If it's in that area. Read the law carefully. You're not speaking at all in the essence of the law. And if we wait for another election, we'll be doing these reforms again, I don't know how many, decades or centuries. And for that. Therefore, the proposal does not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I would only urge the next time to speak on the substance of the amendment that has been made. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 19, People's Deputy Odarchenka. The committee against her, he rejected her. Who supports the 19th amendment, Odarchenka, please vote. Please vote. [[12:55:43]] For-55 The decision is not made. 24th, Odarchenko. Is he insisting? 21 amendments, please. 21st, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u129	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, he's back from Vinnitsky County, Rajrod. Four communities are being brought together. And they ask me, "What's going to happen at school in New Tours?" There are two schools of the same kind. And I say, "Didn't those who advocated unity tell you?" How can we heat up? And today these communities are paid not only for utilities, but for maintenance, for administrative personnel. They cry and howl. And I realize now that of those people who promoted decentralization reform, they couldn't find candidates from their parties. Do you have any idea how much Peter Prashenko's Block from 180 communities has delivered directly from his party? Up to 15, five of them are in the Vinnitsky region. You don't have to say to the community, "Yes, MPs, yes." There are no deputies or leaders from the People's Front. Colleagues, one thing I ask: Either make a decision and do not deceive people into believing that it is a voluntary union, accept and do this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u130	Now I'll give you a line and then Mr. Mikola. Dear colleagues, you have once brought me the Rules and showed me that if there is a faction that the faction considers offensive, the faction is entitled to a replica. And that's why I'm giving you one minute to give Maxim Burbak a speech, and then, Mr. Mikola, you have to comment. Please, one minute, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, this bill needs to be supported in view of the fact that December 11 and 18, elections will take place in the newly formed united territorial communities. And to colleagues from Fatherland who are doing everything they can to stop one of the brightest reforms of local self-government when we gave up budgets when we gave local taxes, when we now grant them authority, we won't let you stop it! Everything you do, you want to stop the reform of decentralization of power because you want to get to it and then strangle the people. Give them the authority! Give people the opportunity to unite! They believed that. And to you, former politicians, they will not believe. Give them the opportunity to be responsible for their lives, to form their budgets, to form schools, to the hospital, to their municipal police, and then to do so. Give them the opportunity, and do not get in the way. And don't lie like you always do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u132	Mr. Mikolo, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u133	I have nothing to comment on. Because he said very well, Maxim Yuriovich. I can tell you that. Again, it's not true, to put it mildly, that they don't participate in the People's Front in these elections. He participates in both the positions of the heads and the positions of deputies. So do I. So do colleagues from another party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u134	So 21 amendments are requested for confirmation. What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u135	What is the correction for confirmation? I didn't hear, I didn't hear. Deputy Yvchenka's speech did not have an offer regarding it. What kind of correction? What amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u136	21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u137	21st. The committee does not support this. It insists that this amendment be taken into account. This is the Central Election Commission's decision to appoint the first election.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u138	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of 21 amendments. I would like to point out that the committee supports this amendment. 21 revisions. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and vote. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u139	Another argument about why we need to support this amendment. Practice shows. For example, in one region of the Chernivecki region, a decision was made to unite the territorial communities. But at the last moment, if we follow the logic of our esteemed colleague, we had to change the boundaries of the areas. But at the last minute, they refused to unite. What if changes were made to the boundaries of the districts, what would happen next? So we have to do the election first, and then change the boundaries of the areas that the Supreme Council will take. I'm saying it out of my life. It's not from the ceiling, it's from life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u140	Thank you. So, colleagues, the committee supports 21 amendments. It's about confirmation. And I ask all those who support the committee and support the amendment to vote. So 21 amendments for confirmation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, vote, 21 amendments. [[13:01:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we have two adjustments left. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. In a few minutes, the decision will be made. 24 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 23rd. 23rd, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like us to be with you either constructively and understanding that this is not a voluntary union. If you've raised funds from all rural, rural and district cities, and you've been doing two years so that they can't develop their communities, you'll listen to those mayors, the mayors of small towns, villages and villages, you've tricked them today by informing them that it's going to be the development of rural areas. Many communities that have already joined together have rejected the council’s election of seniority. I'm leading to the next one. If there is political will today, accept other laws and do not fool people. I am for the truth, not for the injury promoted by the pro-dominant coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u142	I would like to stress once again when a statement is made on the amendment, I ask you to speak on the amendment, to speak on what warnings are there for the amendment. Otherwise I'll just turn off the microphone. Mr. Mikola, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u143	It is the 23th amendment that the deputies of the appropriate district councils continue to exercise their authority to obtain the authority of the deputy district council, except in the case of cases. the laws that have been appointed. [[B in m in s a l in]] District deputies for the next election will continue to carry out their duties. You want to deprive them of that right. I understand that. I understand that one of the political forces, they're opponents of reform at all, and that's their question. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u144	So, your honor, I'm going to ask for confirmation of the 23th amendment, it's supported by the committee, and the committee is asking everyone to support the amendment. So, colleagues, I'm asking for confirmation of amendment number 23 of Fedoruk's National MP. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please. We vote. [[13:03:59]] For-140. The decision is not made. Twenty-four repairs to Odarchenka. Is it insisting? Yes, he insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the fact that communities that have decided not to unite until election day can change their decision because there is no such mechanism today. I want to. Dear colleagues, what was going on. In 2014, the government, which was then, changed the Budget Code and taxed the village and village of individuals. In fact, he knocked out their funding to their communities. Then, after they took away their taxes, they declared these communities incompetent when they took away their tax base. And because of this inability, this union began to be organized. The Fatherland faction insists that all the village councils be preserved, that they be given back the sources of their funding rather than the formation of such circuits, mechanisms that are actually destroying our country's territorial system. Did you hear what you were saying? You're telling me to deputize the district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u146	Please, Mr. Mikolo, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u147	The committee does not support the amendment of the Odarchenk People's Deputy because it goes against the logic of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote Amendment 24. Odarchenko insists on her vote. Whoever supports the amendment of People's Deputy Odarchenka Number 24, which the committee has rejected, please vote. Please. [[13:06:04]] For-72 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the final amendment to the 25th People's Deputies of Kulinic. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Colleagues, that's how we finished discussing the bill. I would like to stress that this is one of the key bills to promote community unification. The reform of decentralization is one of the biggest reforms we've ever undertaken. And now I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm counting on it very much that despite the debate in the room, there will be enough discipline to enable us to make a decision. That's why I'm asking you to ask the deputies to come into the hall right now. Can I get a signal, then? What? Let's vote the alarm, then what? No, it's not me who fails, it's those who don't go to the session and don't work. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'll be with you in a minute. Please, one minute, Elena Boyko, one minute. No, no, I've already given the word Boyko. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall for this moment. Please, one minute, Boyko Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Please support Bill 4676 as one that is urgent and necessary for today to continue the reform of local self-government. During the year, the Central Election Commission, without legal basis and with its own opinion, refused 28 territorial communities that had merged within the various districts in the announcement of the first election. In this regard, the committee clarified and did not see the reason for the refusal. Instead, this bill 4676 is that we propose to those communities that have merged within different regions to hold elections and then change the boundaries. This bill awaits one and a half million people who are already united and waiting for our decision. Support the process of decentralization and do not say, please not true, 667 dollars is the figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u150	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u151	667 dollars is a year’s increase in income per person in the united territorial communities, and this is the success of the community, and do not tell the truth. Maintain your actions, and look into the eyes of everyone who waits for that decision, and have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u152	Colleagues! So once again, I ask everyone to come into the hall, we move on to making decisions, colleagues. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. Colleagues, this is an important law for the development of self - government; it will help create a new voluntary union; I ask you to support and please vote, colleagues. Please do not leave the hall, but come into the hall, please vote. [[13:09:55]] For 168 The decision is not made. Can we go back to second reading, colleagues? Let's re-read the second reading. My colleagues, I remember how hard it was for us to go through our first reading. I ask you to support the second reading again. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Will you support the second one again? Let's do it with motive before that. Let's give the factions a minute, each of the factions per minute will be able to address this issue, each faction. Please, Igor Gus, one minute, explain how we should proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u153	Goose, 19th constituency. Dear friends, shame, shame! Because I'm a major MP. Mr. Odarchenko, where he is, I'll take you to the county for a skit. I have a community, Ovadno, which year cannot unite because it has joined a small village in another area. They ask me on our knees, allow us to unite because this law is for us to unite from two districts. You're embarrassing me! That's what I do. I drive around these communities because I'm a major MP, and they can't unite for a year. Two villages from two districts of the same area. That's the law on it. Do what you want, the tariffs and so on, but this law needs to be voted on. There's no politics here! Come to me, I invite you, come with me on Saturday, look these people in the eye. They cannot unite for a year. The village of Ovadne Volodymyr-Wallin district. It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Now for the line, Odarchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind my colleague that I'm also a major MP and I'm in the district too. I have absolutely clear information and conviction, and I have such parliamentary orders that today, as if it were a voluntary union, it is being carried out everywhere under the authority of the administration. There is no village. [[B in m in s a l in]] which would like to be brought together voluntarily, because everyone understands that today the unification of whole areas into one community will lead to the destruction of the infrastructure of these villages, which will gradually be destroyed in these villages, which will be joined by the great community, by the school, the house of culture, the health institution. And all the people who live in rural areas. In rural territory, we believe that this is genocide in the village, that today's predominant majority is doing everything to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u156	Please, from Peter Dustock's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u157	which shall be received, they shall be accepted only for the sake of the great congregation: for there shall be most of the deputies. That people living in villages who seem to be voluntarily united will eventually lose their school, their home of culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Lucnyak Mikola. Please. Lucenjak Mikola, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u159	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th constituency, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, do you have a conscience? There are hundreds of such examples in Ukraine. The town of Horostkov wants to join the village of Big Govilov, which is two kilometers from it, to Terebovli, about six miles [16 km] away. So why do we take away their rights? These are hundreds of cases that people want to form their budgets. Do you know what the conclusion is? Who does not benefit from decentralization? The one who wants to return to central authority. Give communities the opportunity to develop today, and do not get in the way. They beg you and beg you. And remember, they gave us this mandate to the Supreme Council. Please support and vote. Thank you. So by factions. From the Radical Party of Lazko, from the Radical Party, Lazko. The People's Front already had a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, our political power to make local communities strong and self-sufficient. But I want to remind you of the story when the Kiev Russia was destroyed: when it was divided into adversarial principalities, and the Tatars, the Mongol Tatars, destroyed it. Today, when we reflect Russian aggression, there must be iron power, clear centralization, full control, discipline and governance in Ukraine. When a bard is covered in the word "democracy," we destroy the country. That's why the Radical Party won't let anyone destroy the country. I'm surprised when the President is to appoint heads of administration after the competition. That's his vertical! If I were the President, I'd appoint someone without asking. And that's what government in the state should be like. Or everyone wants to choose and choose. They chose that there was no state and there was no power!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u161	From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u162	Dear friends, you know, we've heard of unsuspecting villages near Stalin, near Brezhnev. Now you're going to figure out which villages are promising, which ones are unsuspecting? We won't let you do it! The only way, if you want to develop a strong country, all taxes should go to the village, the village, the city, and not to any imaginary "units united". That's what Fatherland stands for. We won't let you "clean" the village! Do you think you'll be able to determine where to close the school, where to close the hospital? You can't do this! I'm sure all conscious communities know, until all taxes remain in place -- in the village, in the village, in the city, there will be no state. And "non-perspective villages." Go to Stalin and Brezhnev and learn how they destroyed the Ukrainian village without giving a passport to the Ukrainians in the country without allowing them to develop. You won't get away with it! Good-bye!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u163	From the Opposition Block, Gusak, Deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u164	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, the Opposition Block supports the real development of local self-government in Ukraine. But in that bill that we're discussing right now, that's not what this is about at all. I've already said that the particular word "voluntary" in the title of this bill is harassment. For example, in at least half of Ukraine, I can say: Donetsk, Zakarpatsk, Odessa region, those promising plans that were developed or approved by the district government, they have nothing to do with people's minds. People didn't ask at all. What are the boundaries of areas where self - rule is common? This law confers authority on the district administrations assigned from Kiev and conveys the authority to Kabmin to actually prepare the appropriate decision for the Supreme Council. You can't vote for him!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u165	Thank you. Colleagues, since the factions, Burbak. Colleagues, colleagues, stop, stop. We've already made our appearance. Colleagues, let's go to the vote in a minute. There's already been a performance from the faction. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, in a minute, but please. Attention! I ask you to recommend how we can proceed. I'm asking you, maybe we'll focus on the proposal: on the second reading again, if there's a general position. I ask not only to give political evaluations but also to suggest how to act so that we do not lose the bill. Perhaps a suggestion: A second reading can unite the hall, and we will be able to study and discuss these issues in our discussions. But I remember how hard it was for us to go through our first reading. I wouldn't want us to be working as a big team, many specialists wouldn't bury us at one point by rejecting the bill. So once again, I ask you to join all the deputies in the hall and ask for a closing date. Maxim Burbak, Maxim Burbak, please. One minute is the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Maxim Burbak, 204 District, Chernovići, People's Front. Now everybody's telling us how they feel about the village, about the communities, and I'm going to give you little examples. The Montenegrin district, the head of the district council, is the representative of "The Fatherland" Ivan Muntyan. What did they come up with? One area is one community. This is what they put into the context: they want to change, not reform -- just change the sign. There's a community in the area. The second question. December 18th election. Throughout each district to the community, they registered their candidates. Why are you telling us the truth of life? What are you talking about genocide? Again, you're lying! There's nothing else. I can tell you this: Communities will unite. You're going to object or you're not going to, it's a process that's irreversible, because there are still communities, you've shown success. In particular, the Grand Duchy community (Storozinetsk Region, Cherniewec Region): plus 7 million dollars for the infrastructure budget – and built the road. These are life examples. You can sit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u167	Please, 30 seconds. Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues! I'll give you a line. Colleagues, let's define now. I can give a general discussion, a common one, just so we know what the logic is, what the process is. I ask for suggestions on how we can be united. So far, I'm sorry, just a political discussion, not an offer. I can give another 15 people a performance, and we can talk about it in the afternoon if we see the logic of getting out of that question. Let me give you another speech for the BP, you'll figure out which one of you is going to vote. It's 141 deputies, but you're going to be able to figure out who's going to act out of three. Fatherland's Replica, then another performance from BPP. And let's go to the vote, colleagues. Two speeches, and in two minutes, we move on to the decision-making process. Which one of you will it be? Who? Cool. One minute, Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u168	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, especially our TV and radio listeners, voted in second reading for this bill was 168 votes, along with those satellites from the former Party of Regions. This is a testimony to the fact that there is no coalition. You don't have to give up on Fatherland. Take a look at the fact that you are unable to gather people in the hall. There is no coalition, neither actual nor legal. And it is not a problem of united communities, but it is a problem of inability to enforce the laws that people really need today. That's the real problem. And we will continue to defend the interests of the Ukrainians, to see which communities can really unite and are self - sufficient, and who are forcibly driven into a pool. And we see this now by election in 184 communities. In those communities that are violently driven, unable to form budgets, and who really can't survive under today's conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u169	Thank you. Colleagues, the closing act is Demczak. And then I'm going to propose a second reading proposal. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please, one minute, Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, there is such a united community in my district that joins the village with one another, and the area does not match. The second time they've submitted documents to the CBC, they're asking us, they're asking us to adopt this bill. And I want to deny that, not due to promising plans, but contrary, and this is exactly the initiative of these united communities to make them, they have already taken the initiative. And according to the Law on United Communities, they have already been created. All we have to do is give us legal status so that they can change the boundaries of the area. I have this proposal: given that there may be no votes now, and the bill is very important, I ask you to put it to a rating vote, and today to finish the discussion, now to finish the discussion, and after lunch to vote it when there are more deputies in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, there is no such mechanism. There is no such mechanism, unfortunately. There's a mechanism for talking about factions and asking why factions are smaller, a little more than half present in the hall. This can be done. It may be possible to ask the committee why the committee is proposing the matter before the decision, and then not all the members of the committee are even present in the room when it is being considered. These are the mechanisms that we can activate, and these are the mechanisms that we can act by raising discipline in the hall and accountability. Because I'm telling you honestly, this bill, to my deep conviction, is one of the most important to support local self-government, where we allow local communities to decide for themselves. Not from the top, but to decide for themselves how to unite, to give them a mechanism to connect. We really need to support this bill right now. And that's why I suggested in the presentations that we come out of this situation instead of just dealing with each other's excuses. I hope that now we can come up with a positive solution to the second reading proposal. So at least we'll save the work and work of the big team that worked. And we can shorten the deadline when this bill can be in the agenda again. But in order to do that, we need to invite the deputies to the hall. And in order to do that, we need to agree with each other so that we can support the proposal. To read again, colleagues. That's the next proposal I have to make. If it doesn't pass, I'll have to declare the bill rejected. But what I'm counting on is that the proposal to go back to second reading will find support in the hall, colleagues. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Please give us a chance to have another discussion and make a positive decision. Colleagues Ready to Vote? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to re-read the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. — No. 4676. I'm asking you to back up the offer for second reading, colleagues. So the second reading is back to 4676. Colleagues, I ask you to support me, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:28:17]] For 217 Colleagues, I'll wait. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I see, yes, it is only necessary to be in the hall not only when you speak, but also when you need to work and vote. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, we're short a few votes. Now I'm going to make an offer to go back to the vote. I'm asking you to call a colleague. Colleagues, please come in. I propose to go back to voting on Law 4676. Please support, please vote back to the vote. And I'm going to put the second one again, and I'm going to make this proposal. Now it's just to get back. Please support: 4676 return to the vote. Please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Careful! [[13:29:46]] For 216 Please include the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 100, People's Front – 72, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 0, Father's Day – 12, Radical Party Laska – 9, Rebirth – 2, Will of the People – 6, non-fractional – 15. Guys, I'll put it back on. If we don't support it, the bill will be rejected. But I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I repeat my offer to return to the vote in favour of Law 4676, and I ask your support, colleagues. Please vote, please support 4676 to return to the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:30:59]] For the 220. Guys, I'm gonna put it again, this is gonna be the last time. Colleagues, I'll put the last one on the table, then the bill will be rejected, and we'll move on to the next bill. So, colleagues, I propose to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the condition that the boundaries of the regions change in the voluntary integration of the territorial communities. — No. 4676. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:32:15.]] For 219 The decision is not made. Draft Law 4676 has been rejected. Thus, colleagues, we gave a gift to the local communities until the day of local self - government. Colleagues, the next draft of Law 4772, ask the authors to withdraw from consideration the same as 5247 for further consultations. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, author of the bill, asks to be removed. And we're going to move on to the next block of questions. The next question block. Project 5127: Draft Act amending Chapter XX, subsection 2, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the supply to the customs territory of Ukraine of materials (tissues) for the manufacture of special means of individual protection. This block is made of tax and customs policy, but it actually refers to the issue of national security. And here it's suggested that we can withdraw the tax on customs products for materials, for special means of individual protection. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:33:57]] For-161 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Denisenko Vadim Igorevich, please. Denisenko Vadim Igorovich. Let's give a report first from the committee, the Committee on Tax Policy. Denisenko's coming. Please report. Please. Denisenko Vadim Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! In 2014, the Tax Code introduced a standard according to which, for the duration of an anti-terrorist operation, there was a tax benefit for the added value of special means of individual protection, such as for Kevlar helmets. The aid was foreseen for the purpose of costing the ammunition purchased by the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations at the expense of state funds. At the same time, a lack of clarity has led to the fact that the material from which such helmets are made, or Kevlar itself, is not exempt from taxation. That is, as a result of imperfect legislation, the production of colossus helmets in Ukraine, which meets all military standards and the basic objectives of the Ukrainian military doctrine, is artificially complicated, as it increases the cost of the ready-made value added tax. Furthermore, imports of prepared helmets do not face this problem, which creates non-competitive conditions in relation to the Ukrainian manufacturer and makes it unfavourable to produce quality defence products in Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is thus to exempt Kevlar from VAT, create competitive conditions for Ukrainian producers and reduce the costs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. I would like to point out that the need to make the proposed changes has been directly supported by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The bill does not contain any corruptive factors, nor will it have a negative impact on the conditions of competition in the internal market. Thus, the adoption of the bill is an important step in raising the level of defence of the state and will have a positive effect on the development of industrial production, high-quality defence products in Ukraine. It is particularly important that we adopt this law as a basis and as a whole on the 25th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor. Please invite the committee head of the committee, Mrs. Yuzanin, to report to the rostrum on Bill 5127.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to extend the exemption from tax on the added cost of import operations to the customs territory of Ukraine and the supply in the customs territory of Ukraine of paraamide fabric classified in the goods subcategory 5407100000 according to the OCTS for use in the manufacture of helmets. The current edition, the standard that we have already adopted with you, provides for exemption from VAT on these tissues to make them in the making of armored vests. Therefore, the drafters made a proposal in addition to parapararamid tissue made an additional proposal on the need for exemption from VAT on high-strength yarns classified in the commodity subcategories 5402110000 according to UCTZED for use in helmet production. An active editorial that is now active only uses the aid in making armored vests. National deputies, members of the committee, supported the proposal. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 5127 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals of the committee that I will read under the transcript. Chapter I of the bill will be drafted in such an order. In paragraph 2, paragraph 32, subsection 2 of section XX, "Transitional positions" of the Tax Code of Ukraine, the word and digits "barriers for the manufacture of vests classified in goods subcategories 5402110000 and 54100000 according to the UTZED textiles for the manufacture of vests and helmets classified in goods subcategories 3920108910, 3920610000, 392196000 according to the UTZED replace the words and figures "strings and fabrics classified in goods subcategories 3920.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u175	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u176	3920108990, 3920610000, 3921990000, 5402110000, 5407100000, 5603141000 and 6914900000 according to the UCTZED for the manufacture of armoured vests and helmets. This is to correct the text essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Fatherland, Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u178	Please give it to Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u179	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, this is one of the groups of bills that relate to the defence complex that our faction will support. Unlike a lot of other people, where the codes are completely blurry, where you can use any kind of defence value product, including televisions and anything. It's by this bill that, in our view, both the committee and the drafters of the bill have submitted a very clear codification, and that's why our faction will support this bill. But I was asked about the work of the Kiev customs office, which refused to those companies that made armored vests and helmets on the basis of the codification that is now mentioned in this bill. Why? Because, you see, our Kiev customs office has been blocking supplies for almost four months because they've come up with a codification that doesn't match the European Union's codification of where these components come from. Four months of fighting ended by admitting that the Kiev customs actually blocked supplies of the most important substance for the manufacture of protective helmets and armored vests. No one was responsible for this. I am very grateful that others have found the answer to these questions in this bill. But there is one question. We ask the Ministry of Finance to ensure that after the cancellation of customs and VAT, this product is not more expensive than it is. Customs and VAT have been cancelled, and it should be cheaper to produce this amount. That's why we're going to support it with this particular one. With such a specific warning to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Peter Prashenko's Block, Denisenko Vadim Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u182	Please pass the word to Kudlainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the faction of Peter Prashenko will support this bill unanimously. It is supported not only by our faction but by the many deputies in this room. I'd like us to mobilize when we make this decision, and his decision is supported by the Ministry of Finance, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and also by the Committee of Profiles. First, what do we get? We will provide our military personnel with the necessary means of protection more quickly. And not only the military but also the law enforcement forces and the anti-terrorist units. Secondly, we create jobs that are no less important for today's economic situation than the security and security of our soldiers. Once again, since the adoption of the bill, we have strengthened Ukraine’s security. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction proposes and calls on the MPs to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u185	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear head! The opposition block faction will not vote in favour of this bill. But I would like to pay attention to the following. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you just removed two bills. Last time the bill was taken off the table, that's what it was. In order to confirm this, you were voting in the room. I realize that what is written in the Rules has no meaning, but let us somehow be consistent. Second, we voted five times last time to return to the question when it was clear that there were no votes. Then we'll probably vote to continue the session to work another week, another week. Let's start by organizing our own work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u186	From the Radical Party Lasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u187	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support a bill that will allow for the loss of individual remedies for our military personnel. An important question. But, dear colleagues, Mr. Head, in order for a powerful army to exist, there must be a powerful economy in Ukraine. Economic growth, creating new jobs, overcoming unemployment is the guarantee of a strong and powerful army and our Armed Forces. To have a strong economy, we need to support a national producer. And that's why we're asking, hands off our forest, not to remove an unprocessed roundwood from Ukraine. Instead, I ask you to immediately submit to Parliament our legislation with colleagues from the Radical Party on the abolition of import duties and VAT on new woodworking equipment. Work and pay to the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u188	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the decision room. We have a block of questions where the taxes on military materials are taken out for the security block. It's actually a matter of security and defense. I very much ask that there be a high level of responsibility in these matters. Please come into the hall. Now one minute is Victor Pinzenic. We'll go to the vote in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I would not object to the adoption of such a law if it applied to import duties. I'd vote in favour, but it's VAT. Taxes on consumption of goods are independent of whether they are Ukrainian goods, or whether they are imported goods. The law that is proposed offers to exempt imports from VAT. Under these conditions, Ukraine has no chance of ever producing its own product, as production of Ukrainian goods is being discriminated against. In addition to Ukraine, I don't know any country in the world that pursues a policy of tax discrimination against a national producer. Because the national manufacturer has to pay VAT, the importer has to pay VAT. Second moment, would you please tell me how this is going to affect the tenders? The tenders are done, do they have VAT included? Of course, the price is fixed. Now you're fired. you're freeing the contractors of the orders, giving them an extra profit. So I support the decision to cancel the duty, but VAT -- no direct tax can be cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u190	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u191	Otherwise, it discriminates against the national manufacturer. And I'm asking you to take that position into account when we adopt appropriate other laws, because unfortunately, we don't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I'm going to give you a minute from the committee, because in the discussion, the committee claims, there have been some data that doesn't match the reality. Before the vote, let the chairman of the committee explain all the nuances of the bill. Turn on the microphone: Eugene. And please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I want to explain to you that it is the paraaramid fabric and thread that we're talking about that is not produced in Ukraine to make helmets and vests. So they can only import. And this rule is exclusively for the period of the ATO, an anti-terror operation. We are very careful about this on the committee, too, and we do not want to distort the payment of the import VAT in general. Therefore, the exclusive norm for lowering the government budget costs, because this is an import VAT, has to be paid off immediately when imported, i.e. from one pocket to another pocket. And all the action that the committee is currently directing is only about raw materials or corkscrews that are not produced in Ukraine. Therefore, there is no basis in this law for a Ukrainian producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m0.u194	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. The discussion demonstrated that most of the political forces supported the bill. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XX, subsection 2, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the supply to the customs territory of Ukraine of materials (tissues) for the manufacture of special means of individual protection (number 5127) on a basis, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please support the army, the security and defense sectors. Vote please, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. [[13:50:06]] For 196 The factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 57, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 13, "Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 14, "Rebirth" – 3, "Will of the People" – 4, "non-fractional – 18. Now I'm going to put a second sentence to the vote, return it to the committee for further work. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll make the next offer. Draft Law 5127 is to be sent to the committee for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:51:19]] For-198 This, colleagues, has already been a gift to local self-government, and now we are giving our military a gift to the forerunner without supporting these bills. But it is the will of the hall, and each faction makes its decision. I'll make the final offer. This is the return of the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to further work. Colleagues, please. Come into the hall. It is possible, Mrs. Alexander, to call the faction members to be in the hall on such an important matter. It's a nice mechanism to call back. I'm ready to wait a minute or two. You can call me back, invite those factions that don't exist into the hall. And any faction can do that. I'll wait a minute. I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to invite MPs into the hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Now I'm going to make the next offer. Return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Ready to vote? So, colleagues, I'm making a proposal, a draft law amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the supply to the customs territory of Ukraine of materials (tissues) for the manufacture of special means of individual protection to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:54:03]] For 197 They're demanding factions. I'm going to read by factions so they know how Ukrainian national deputies work on the front. So, Peter Poshenko's Block is 90, the People's Front is 54, the Opposition Block is 0, Self-help is 0, the Father's Day is 11, Oleg Lachka's Radical Party is 15, Rebirth Party is 3, Will of the People is 6, non-fractional is 18. Thus, Law 5127 is rejected. Dear colleagues! We will no longer be able to get to the next issue of the day’s order. So I'd like to do the announcements that came to the fore. In particular, the announcement by the national deputy of Ukraine Razwadowski to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Volodymyrovich, Paris. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the MP group "The Will of the People". National Deputy Razwadowski. This is the only announcement that is currently in the foreword. This concludes the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. At 16 hours we will continue our work on the issues needed for the adoption of the budget. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you.
