ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time allocated for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for work. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, once again, I invite everyone to the hall, as well as the factions, to their secretaries, so that at 4:30 a.m., there will be a maximum presence of deputies. We're going to be discussing the arrest of judges -- one of the most important issues we need to respond to today -- very quickly and effectively. And so I ask that factions' secretaries maximize the faction's special composition to participate in Parliament's work. I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the start of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are opening an evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please, fellow citizens, we take our seats. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. Let's register, colleagues. [[16:13:01]] 348 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We are moving on to the agenda and the first question is 3739 – the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the features of the licensing of economic activities for the provision of financial services. National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergija Rybalka, as appropriate, prepared by the Committee. Well, please, Your Honor, report. Please report by general procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u3	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act to amend some of the laws of Ukraine that are regulated. regulation of the features of licensing for financial services. One of the priorities for the financial sector in the development of the non-bank services market. Last year there were 2,087 of such financial services and institutions. And the total amount of their assets was 9.4 percent of Ukraine's GDP. The general problems for these markets remain the lack of sufficient supervision, inefficient regulation and the need for a fundamental strengthening of the system of protection of the rights and interests of consumers of such services. The Law on the licensing of commercial activities that took effect in June 15th did not take into account a number of features of regulation of these markets. In addition, its adoption has led to a number of conflicts between its rules and the Financial Services Act and the national regulation of financial services markets, as well as other laws governing individual financial services markets. In the view of the committee, the introduction of the legislative changes would contribute to deregulation of individual markets in financial services, the removal of conflicts between laws and create more transparent conditions for the provision of non-bank financial services. First of all, it is proposed to reduce the number of services licensed from the 20s to the 4ths; to define the characteristics of the licensing of economic activities for the provision of financial services for compliance with the basic principles set out in the Law on the licensing of economic activities. The bill also provides for the elimination of conflicts between the rules of this applicable General Licensing Act and the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets, as well as other professional laws. They're all brought up in the same terminology. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets, supports the adoption of this law. Ukraine’s National Regulatory Service makes specific comments that we will certainly take into account after our first reading. Considering that the adoption of the law is urgent, because the number of disagreements in the current legislation creates problems with the regulator's licensing work, and in some cases blocks it, the professional committee at its meeting on 26 January 2016 reviewed the draft Law No. 3739 and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on the basis of a shorter deadline for preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u4	Thank you. Please have three questions for the reporter. Please sign up for the question. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please ask questions. Canceled. Thank you. Please take your seats. Is there a need for factions? Please write the factions down for two minutes, if you wish. There are no wantrs of factions. People's deputies, please. Three performances two minutes from the National Deputies. Please, National Deputy Shurm. None. Matthew also canceled the talk. Okay. Dear fellow national MPs! We have concluded our discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the regulation of the features of licensing for economic activities for financial services. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, 3739 is a proposal for the outcome of the discussion to adopt a decision as a basis. Signal vote. Please be determined. [[16:19:23]] For-129 There are 129 Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council. Okay. We'll go back to the vote. 3739 – discussed. 2456 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. Please read again. Ruslan Demczak, please. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please be sure to review the bill with a reduced procedure. Short-term review procedure. [[16:20:50]] For 116 The required number of votes did not come in. Please, Ruslan Demczak, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Today, however, we are adopting economic laws, in the financial sector, and so weak is the focus. Your opinion is proposed by Act 2456d, the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. This bill integrates European directives, consumer lending practices. And it will allow you to restore consumer lending, structure, and, most importantly, restore consumer lending in Ukraine according to European principles. The draft was completed by a working group at the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets according to the proposals and comments made in the previous review. The main scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus was the comments. We counted them, we worked them out. Including the comments of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as those made at the previous meeting of the Supreme Council, when we considered this bill, Ostap Semierak was also noted. We got them in writing and integrated them into a completed project. The amendments to the Civil Code were excluded when the bill was drafted. It was also developed in such a way. The terminology of the bill has been clarified and agreed upon. Excluded standards that can be interpreted and regulated in ambiguous ways by the Ukrainian Civil Code. The ability to conduct electronic documents between the creditor and the consumer is taken into account, as well as the rules on the filing of lawsuits in the interests of an undetermined group of persons, i.e. a large group of persons. It was good money, but it's not yet integrated into our Ukrainian legislation. It'll be early. At the same time, the bill preserves its focus on creating an effective system for protecting consumers' rights to financial services, eliminating gaps and inconsistencies in the current regulatory and legal system for protecting consumers' rights. I would like to remind you that this bill is being introduced in conjunction with the draft Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (registration number 2455). It was already adopted as the basis for December 9, 2015. This bill is practically ready for consideration for second reading. We were just at the committee meeting yesterday, and we've already discussed it, the revisions, the second reading. And these two laws -- 2455 and today's 2456 -- they have to go in parallel. And that's why we have to vote on it today as a basis. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends by its decisions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (registration number 2456-d) to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u6	Thank you. I'm asking you to stay in the rostrum. Reporter, please remain in the rostrum. Ruslan Evgeniovich, I urge you to return to your workplace. Now, according to the Rules, we have a question-answer for three minutes. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question-answer. Please record. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u7	I have the following question. As settled in this bill with consumer credit to an average citizen, so that no more cases like this happen, people come in and just throw them out of their apartments, for example, by taking a TV set, and then they throw it out of their apartment completely, they're unique cases. How has this been resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u8	A new norm has been introduced to structure the restructuring of this loan. If this loan is unreturnable, the standards are set, it can be restructured by 3 years. Above all, such a possibility is considered that there will be no more than 35 percent of the total family income for restructuring payments. That is, if then restructured, they will look at the material potential and income of the entire family, and they will not go beyond 35 percent. This will enable you to structure the work between the credit institution and the borrower who has spent the loan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u9	Katzer-Buchovska Natalija Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u10	Dear colleague, thank you for presenting this bill of acceptance. The explanation, please, will be the responsibility of financial organisations, particularly banks, because the main essence of this law is to strengthen their responsibility, which can affect the banking system, including the cost of loans in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u11	Such influence may be such as recognition of consumer credit agreements as worthless to the lender. If they put in consumer lending contracts unreliable information, for example, they will say that consumer credit will cost, for example, 20 percent of the annual loan, and the real rate will be higher. And we know that consumer credit now in Ukraine, sometimes credit rates go up to 300 percent of a year. Yes, if the information is not correct, then the consumer has all the legal rights to demand the termination of the contract and to require the conditions that were set out for him before he entered into the contract. And to that end, we've developed an appendix to Bill 2455 even a customer credit passport, where all the information is recorded and this passport is formed before the consumer credit agreement is concluded. Thus, financial institutions and their responsibilities will be affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u13	Thank you. Kugel, Fatherland. While I emphasize that this is a very positive bill, it is important for me to hear from you whether there is your support for a complete change to the second reading (it will be crucial for us) of such questions. First of all, you haven't changed the order of payment of consumer credit claims, which first runs out of interest and then the body. It's very dangerous. And because how much we communicate with our citizens, who are still standing, that is a very principled question. There is no possibility of collective lawsuits, second question. In my opinion, the very great powers of Nazbank, but not of their own, are given. And here's a note of our system of support for reforms, a package of reforms. They say that by supporting our colleague, it is about breaking the contract with a natural person. Your answer is not valid, because when a person took a loan, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u14	30 seconds, please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u15	Finish it. Thank you. The dollar was 5 bracelets, and now 24-25, then he showed that it matches him. That's the amount of his earnings. And in that way, they're just going to break up any relationship with them, and we're going to leave a man vulnerable again. Is it possible to correct this for a second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u16	I want to, there were a few questions, to start with, first of all, out of turn. Ms. Alexander, we've taken this into account: first, there'll be interest, then there'll be body, then there'll be percentages, then there'll be body, and then there'll be punitive sanctions. What we put on the fifth row of fines allows us to break this circle when credit institutions are said to have literally put credit consumers on the counter, so this is already counted. With regard to the termination of contracts, this does not apply at this time to those loans that have been taken, that is to say those that will be granted in the future. And now it will be forbidden to issue, already forbidden, consumer loans in currency, only in national currency. There will be no monetary risk here. With regard to the possibility of a breakup, the bill provides that even during the 14 first days of the consumer’s life, even after receiving a loan, wars can break the agreement and bring the money back. If he sits down, consults with a lawyer, with a lawyer, and they read a contract, some moments where he can't financially pull out, or he thinks there's going to be some moments that have been wrongly proved to him, he can break the treaty for 14 days, it's also taken into account. As far as collective actions are concerned, I'm also concerned that it may have been possible to file collective lawsuits, but unfortunately that's contrary today, and we've worked with lawyers, as it were, this rule of civil law, the Civil Code. Regrettably, we cannot change, just as other MPs have pointed out that this cannot be done. So these are the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u17	Thank you. Question time's up. Spent time, association, and so on. Now we're going to the next chapter, this is actually a faction statement, and I'm asking my colleague to record a statement from the factions. Please record. Silantiev Denis Olegovich, Radical Party. A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction will support Bill 2456d because it protects the legitimate rights of users of financial services, consumers of the financial market. It's very important, because you know, there's a lot in this room, and especially in the Cabinet of Ministers, they're talking about deregulation. So what I want to say is that if we study with you carefully the best world experience and, above all, the experience of the United States, we will see that the root of economic success is not in deregulation, but in effective regulation, in establishing transparency in both systemic and hard state policies. Because you know that Roosevelt was also starting a policy of rigid, effective deregulation, and then there was a gradual weakening. For Reagan, a massive deregulation continued, both at Clinton and at Bushi’s Jr. What did this lead to, I think, is very well known to everyone, what did the United States of America come to because of deregulation? And it's very well known that after the 8th crisis, in the 9th year, this trend was reversed and taken care of to establish strict and clear rules to control business in order to protect consumer rights in order to ensure transparent operating conditions for financial institutions. So today we need more than just to listen, sorry, to some sent foreign advisors who tell us that the main state is to move away from the field of play. No, we need to look at Roosevelt's experience, we need to look at the experience of those state actors who in other countries have provided economic development and protection for their own society. So this bill is meant for financial service users to know the real conditions that financial institutions offer them so they don't cheat through some secret commission, some extra payments and so on. And they knew that if you took a 30 - percent loan, 30, not 70, which you would then pay, it was not clear how it happened. So this bill certainly needs to be supported as an element of effective regulation, an element of ensuring the protection of society's interests. So please support me in the first reading. Of course, there are a number of comments that should be included in the second reading. But the concept of the bill is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u19	Salovy Yuri Igorovich, from the Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u20	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, it is very nice to note today that virtually all the bills that are in the order of the day apply either to the financial system or to the Ukrainian economy, because these are the issues that concern Ukrainian citizens in the first place today. Let's face it, as long as we don't have the work of the banking system, until the human system returns, and the company capital, we don't have the right, and we don't have the ability to talk about the development of the Ukrainian economy. The banking crisis that arose in 2008 and worsened in 2014 is, including the result of imperfect Ukrainian legislation, legislation that did not properly regulate the relationship between creditors and borrowers. The law in force is designed to correct those mistakes of the past and to correct those mistakes of the present, and to make sure that the relationship between banks and lenders is governed, systematized and regulated by legislation so that there is no such thing as that the bank in a unilateral order, without informing the borrower, is able to raise the bank's stake, but that it is as it is in a civilized world, so that the borrower gets all the relevant information and that the information is regulated by existing legislation. So I'm talking to my co-legislators to support clearly in the first question. First reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u21	Thank you. Meduna Oleg Viacheslavovich of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u22	Dear friends, the financial services market in Ukraine is extremely regulated. Today, for example, we have discovered and the whole world of democracy has lifted sanctions from the Republic of Iran. Ukrainian business is now going to Iranian markets, for example. But the cost of the bank guarantee is on average 5 percent for commercial transactions with the country and not just with it. So the adoption of this law, which, I want to emphasize, is consistent with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank, and with the Professional Committee, and the comments made by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council, is extremely important. The People's Front faction will support the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u23	Thank you. And from the Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u24	Dear friends, to say that this market is regulated, I think that every single one of you who communicates with the electorate knows the opposite. Most of all, there's no financial services in this market, there's no consumer protection, there's no people. Unfortunately, today, banks, insurance companies, credit institutions today leave a completely defenseless end consumer. Look at the contracts they make. There are important points to be read with a bulwark. And so, in my opinion, the bill needs to be submitted not only to the institutions that the National Bank and the Commission want to do, but also to the institutions. Which one of you is still on the subway, they're probably reading, "We're loaning out no bets and no interest." These are apherists all over Ukraine. As long as we haven't written to the Nutzbank or the State Commission, no one wants to do it. We need to put in a bill that protects people in part of receiving financial services. And second of all. When we talk about the possibility of breaking the custody contract without clear criteria, which will be exclusive to breaking the contract, it's very dangerous. Therefore, we feel that it is necessary to write clear criteria for the second reading of financial services contracts. The Fatherland faction will vote in the first reading if these questions are included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u25	Thank you. Thank you. Oleg Lavrick is invited by the Self-Help faction. He'll be out of town talking. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u26	Oleg Lavrick, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, we have considered this law once before in this session hall, and we have read it for the first time. And unfortunately, there weren't enough votes at the time for this law to be adopted in the first reading. This is probably the lobby of the financial sector and banking institutions, insurance companies and other institutions that are so large in Parliament that we haven't been able to protect the final consumer. To the second reading. At the time of the first reading, the law was further elaborated on the committee, and all the amendments that were then made in the hall were introduced. In addition, we have voted today in the first reading of the Insurance Act, and many of the provisions of this law have already been introduced. So I urge everyone to vote in the first reading and to support it. The Self-Help faction will also support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u27	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk. Please. Turn on the microphone. Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u28	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The authors of the bill also ask you to include the position of the end consumers, those who took part in it. On the front and especially those whose families are left with breadwinners. That is, if a person was involved in the family and died or had a disability, the State would have to take these expenses. It's a request to include it in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u29	Thank you. The factions are finished. I now ask you to record a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please record. Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to answer even those lines that were relevant to this bill. First. If they violate the rules of the Civil Code, the criteria for breaking the treaty are clear. That's the main thing. I think to the second reading, if we have to make some more standards, we can add these proposals in right-hand mode. What about the ATO warriors? I also suggest that you make a change to the second reading, and in the section "Restructuring" we can predict such norms. That's why I'm waiting for you right. As far as this bill is concerned, I have two more minutes. These two bills have already been adopted and worked by us for the second reading – 2455 and 2456d – allowing them to issue consumer credits according to European standards, this is the basic levitative, basic and line that these bills are currently running. We already had consumer loans in Ukraine. And what do we see? We have borrowers standing under the Supreme Council, right? So it didn't work. Let's integrate the standards that are in the European Union, so let's take this already invented bicycle, and not stick to anything that doesn't work at the moment. In addition, these two bills prescribe the structure and information of the contract and prescribe the conditions that must be included in the contract and the advertising requirements, what Alexandra Kugel said today is that the subway is zero. Now we give our regulators the opportunity to influence if such advertising is noticed, influenced and applied. And that's very important. It can't be implemented now, because it's already going to be a violation of the law, it's going to be a crime. We also prescribed a restructuring that could be, because everything could be in people's lives and they did. It could be like an economic situation right now. Even if this loan was in bracelets, the family could not handle it, we prescribed clear standards of restructuring, including. And the responsibility of credit institutions, and the responsibility of consumers, if it happens that they can't pay off the loan on time. So I would like to support a very important bill that will allow for the restoration of consumer credit in Ukraine. And to break this node is not a pay-per-view node and a peer of economic imbalance in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u31	Thank you. My wife, Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u32	Please pass the word to the deputy Golovek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u33	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs! Indeed, protecting our consumers is a major task, primarily of the people's advocates, MPs from the aberration of bank criminals, who are unfortunately unrepentant. Today’s banking system, many are dishonest market workers who still abuse their positions. Most importantly, we see them robbing ordinary Ukrainians who gave them credit, now moving them out of their homes. This bill is, in principle, right. But, of course, it is a shame that you took the collective suit to allow people to unite against the illegality of banks, against their mafia and together to stand up for their rights. So this norm, the one that you've ruled out, is very unfortunate. And yet I propose before the second reading returned it, to this bill. But unfortunately, we do see that Parliament is still more concerned with legislation that deals with the protection of banks, not consumers, not ordinary Ukrainians, their citizens. We see how the restructuring has been going, in recent years almost 189 billion dollars have given restructurings to state banks, I'm sorry, banks of which almost 110 have not been returned to today. Yeah, that money was taken off the grid, practically stolen. Rather, we do not see concessions to people. Unfortunately, to this day we have not passed a bill on bankruptcy of natural persons. For it is possible that a person has either paid or not paid the loan, that he has paid the mortgage, that the bank has taken the mortgage and they continue to force them to pay this cabal for the rest of their lives, this eternal debt, virtually, their slavery! And that is why we still need to adopt a bill in Parliament on the bankruptcy of natural persons in order to be able to still, according to European countries, as is the case in Western countries, to protect the rights of consumers. Regrettably, a bill of 3555 was passed in Parliament today, providing a mechanism for tax evasion. Again, it's for the banks! We see that, once again, billions of dollars are allowed to write off debts to banks, and instead, simple consumers, ordinary Ukrainians, no one can write down! Instead, they are thrown out of their homes, taken away from their homes, and driven away from poverty. They were able to create such conditions by giving them first the currency loans, virtually lowering the national bracelet, and they picked up the thread. Therefore, our task as parliamentarians is to protect consumers and such bills to support and still protect our Ukrainians and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u34	Thank you. Sporeš Ivan Dmitrovich is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, when preparing the bill, it should be said that very serious mergers of experts were involved, and a serious working commission was set up, resulting in a rather serious bill. And we, when we looked at it and voted it down to the first reading, we considered that this is where there's a pretty serious argument about the regulations that we're proposing to change in legislation. So I'm going to offer my colleague support in the first reading, and we're definitely going to take your opinion and we're going to prepare for the second reading no less and we're going to be as serious as we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u36	Thank you. Please, Mr. Lozova Andri Sergiyovich. Lozova Andrew Sergiyovich, focus, join us. Are you going to perform? You're with us, please. Removes the word 'Losova Andrew'. So we finished our discussion of the bill. Is there a need for authors, reporters, coreporters for the final word? There's no need to say the closing word. That's why, dear fellows, we're moving to a vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that a vote will take place in one minute. Please take your jobs. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. We're getting ready to vote. So, are you ready to vote, colleagues? The committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. So I'm putting a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights of consumers of physical services (number 2456d). Anyone who supports this proposal, Your Honor, please vote. Take up jobs, we vote. Anyone who supports the proposal as a basis, please vote. Please vote. [[16:53:27]] For 226 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill. Welcome to the committee for the adoption of the bill. Dear colleagues, we have been approached by a Supreme Court judge and it is our duty to consider important draft decisions relating to the release and granting of consent to the arrest of judges. In particular, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a submission to the Supreme Council, an order to order the detention of the judge of the Malinov district court of Odessa Bourán Alexija Mikolayovic. There was also a motion for an arrest under the custody of the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Burana, Alexia Mikolaiovich. The committee held its meeting and, given the emergency situation, made an expeditious and responsible decision, and we must now consider the matter in full procedure and make the appropriate decision in one way or another. To answer the question, I invite the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mihajlovich Romanyuk, to the Supreme Council for answers to questions raised by members of the parliamentary factions and groups of people's deputies. I remind you that according to the Rules, the answers and questions take 30 minutes. So I ask the MPs to be careful who wants to ask questions, you can write it down. And I ask my fellow deputies to record a question to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please record. The question is given to Vlasenkov Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u37	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! In fact, we all know about the situation that has arisen with this judge, the information about these shots, the shootings in all the media. But it wasn't surprising to me that I just didn't want to characterize my feelings when I heard the President of the Council of Judges, Mrs. Simonenko, that everything was good, that nothing bad was going on, that the representatives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau were doing something illegal. Unfortunately, we see a completely circular message in the hands of judges. So the simple question: how can you comment on this situation is this one time. Second of all, what is it? Why, unfortunately, can the judicial system not perform self - cleansing? What's going on? What does the Supreme Council need to do to ensure that the judicial corps does not have to clean up so that we do not have to have such decisions so that we do not have the judicial system that we have? Unfortunately, your rhetoric is that you're good, and these are isolated cases, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u38	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u39	Sadly, your rhetoric does not match the reality. Odystic judges such as Tsarevich, Kitsuk, all undergo re-testing and continue to work in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u40	I would like to ask you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, a noble man, to inform you of the substance of this matter in your answer to this question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u41	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Court of Ukraine received the submission of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the director of the specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of Nazar Holodnitsky, which focused on the issue of the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to arrest and arrest the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Burana Alexija Mikolaiovich. The submissions indicate that Judge Buran, on the basis of his prior agreement with the mediator, demanded and, in the following, obtained an unfair advantage in a particularly large way for the approval of an interested court judge in a civil case of debt collection. During a search of the premises of Judge Buran. Judge Buran tried to escape the employees of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau, which according to the author of the application suggests that while he was on his own, he could continue to avoid the investigation and the trial. In doing so, he also used firearms, which give rise to the assumption that he poses some social danger while on the loose. And considering that he can influence a mediator who, together with him, demanded and helped to obtain an unfair advantage, as well as a person in whose interests the crime is actually committed and who is now also on the stand, remains at large and cooperates with the investigation to prevent it, the Deputy Attorney General requests that the arrest and arrest of the judge be granted. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, I, as Head of the Supreme Court, supported this submission and brought it to your discretion. With regard to the answer to the question of the respectable Sergey Volodymyrovich, it seems to me that the answer is not words, but works. Since the incident took place yesterday evening, but as the Chief of the Supreme Court, I supported the submission of the Deputy Attorney General and brought the matter to Parliament yesterday at 12 o’clock in the afternoon, and today the matter is being considered in Parliament. So it seems to me that such steps actually show that the judicial system has no intention of coping with such disgraceful cases and is trying to fight them in every way by condemning such incidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u42	George Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u43	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Your Honor, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Court, you're saying that the judicial system is self-cleaning, at the same time, you've left the head of the judicial administration who, in accordance with the Law on the Cleaning of Power, would not be in charge of this office. That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me before this Anti-Corruption Bureau specialty, did they contact you for appropriate authorization? And it was very embarrassing to see when they allowed a judge who was running out of a second floor window to actually escape, that is, instead of detaining him. And I understand that in order to detain him, there must be sanctions, your consent and the authorization of the Supreme Council, according to detention. So are these the unprofessional actions of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau? Is it a long time for you to give proper consent and a corresponding appeal to the Supreme Council? Please give an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u44	The Honourable People’s Deputy, authorized by the Solomian District Court of Kiev to conduct a search in the office and in the house, the residence where Judge Buran actually resides, was granted. For the concern of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau, if I am not betrayed by memory, March 25, or early. Further action, events, in fact, took place in such a way that anti-corruption bureau detectives expected when, in fact, it would end when an unfair court decision would be passed on to the judge and it was only then that this operation, which became an acquisition of publicity and which everyone now knows about. So it seems to me that there is no reason to blame the Anti-Corruption Bureau detectives, whether the courts are unprofessional or delaying any investigation. As for the answer to the first half of your question, it seems to me that it lies beyond the scope of a specific submission regarding the arrest and arrest of a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u45	Didic Valentin Volodymyrovich, please, Didic Valentin Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u46	Please pass the word to the People's Deputies in Vitalia Cooperia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u47	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I've been meaning to contact you, and I'm going to support your submission, which you represent. But I would like to draw your attention to the work of such a judge, Mr. Chaus, of the District Court of Kiev. We remember Korban’s case when he conducted court marathons, not allowing people to receive medical attention, people suspected of having committed crimes. And today, this judge is simply exonerating court cases, original court cases from certain judicial institutions, administrative ones, in fact violating the constitutional rights of people to defend their interests in court. I think it's not just. I know you're a decent person. Not only should voting as a member of the High Council of Justice be, but perhaps another reaction to the actions of such judges, who continue to violate the laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u48	Dear Vitalia Mikolaiovich, I think this question lies again beyond this submission, which is now being discussed in the plenary room. And by continuing to answer the questions of the previous National MP, neither the Anticorruption Bureau detectives nor the court decided on the question of the detention of a judge, since the judge was using judicial immunity. And in fact, you people's deputies have the right to deprive the judge of this immunity. After that, if the authorities of the pretrial investigation see the grounds for the law and the need to do so, they will initiate the matter before the court of detention and arrest, and in fact the court will decide the matter in a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u49	Please, National Deputy Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, these disgraceful cases, when in fact every day or day we see the arrest of judges, and they're already starting to shoot themselves, it clearly tells us that the judicial system is completely corrupt and cannot self-clean. And the fact that the NABU, the NABU detectives and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office are working effectively to detain these judges is that they have been properly created, regulated legislation, personnel selected, managers and continue to be taken away by detectives. But what I'm saying is that directly public activists, anti-corruption centres, the anti-corruption group of the Reanimation Package of Reforms have taken part in and participated actively in this activity, not that we have effectively self-cleaned judges. What do we see now? The political persecution of these public activists and these organizations, which is totally unacceptable and shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u51	Leo Podlisecki, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u52	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u53	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u54	Your Honor, there are no questions in Parliament regarding the granting of an order to arrest this judge, but there are other questions. First. Can you, as a lawyer, explain to Parliament and to all citizens what they should do, what rights the law enforcement officials have when the arrested judge starts shooting at them? And the second. Today's news. Judge Tsarevich, who we have agreed to arrest for your same application here, has successfully been re-evaluated under the Fair Court Act. Questions. What can society do?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u55	With regard to the answer to the question of how to act to law enforcement officials, when a judge who is not even tried to arrest but searched his home uses firearms, I think it is quite clearly regulated by the relevant legislation that regulates the activities of law enforcement officials. I hope that, too, in this case, law enforcement officials have acted in strict compliance with the requirements of law enforcement. As far as the other's concerned. The answer to another part of your question is, again, I think it lies beyond the scope of the decision to make a specific application for detention and the arrest of a particular judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u56	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u57	. District, Cherniewec region, Ivan Rybak. Well, I still want to go back to Judge Oksana Kravevich. And if that's true. That she's already claiming to live, because it's really a concern for society today. A person who has actually committed crimes against the terrainrs, those who have fought for the dignity of Ukrainian society and people, today decides the fate of others. Please give a more specific answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u58	Before deciding on the election of Judge Zaljevic and any other judge to serve as judge on an indefinite basis, the judge is obliged to proceed with the procedure of the so-called primary qualification evaluation. Judge Tsarevich is actually going through this procedure right now. The Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine should conclude, and in the future you, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, should decide whether or not there is a legal basis for the election of a particular judge on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u59	Please, Maxime Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u60	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Good House.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u61	Dear Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, I would like to know if you know that there is such a judge in the Pecher Court. I'm sorry. Please tell Judge Burney of the Pecher Court, who has taken the arrests out of the accounts of Arbusov, who has returned his money to the sister of the Odysian Priest. He continues to pass judgments on behalf of Ukraine. Are you going to respond to the fact that such odinous court officials and judges continue to work and decide? And they're currently being prosecuted, and they're still in their posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u62	Dear People's Deputy! In the event of disagreement with a court judge’s decision, he may be charged with a higher court. And if a judge sees a disciplinary offence in his actions, such as a violation of the oath of a judge in a particular case and a specific court decision, then the relevant authorities responsible for the disciplinary practice, that the court of first instance or the Higher Qualifications Commission should decide the matter also if the violation of an oath by a judge is confirmed to initiate the matter through the Higher Council of Justice on the dismissal of such a judge from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u63	Thank you. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u64	I ask you to pass the word Alexia Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u65	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u66	Your Honor, Your Honor! Of course, the decision we're going to make about this judge is clear -- we support it. And there are no questions. But the question is different. Why did he have to wait until he started shooting at NABA detectives so that we could finally consider the issue of responsibility? Everyone knew that name in Odessa! I can call you some more. cranel, the Black Sea City Court of Odessa, many others in the district courts of Odessa. What are we waiting for? What are we going to be shooting at law enforcement soon? I'm asking you to organize a proper job so that the judges can be judged. I want to remind you, there are a lot of courts, judges who have made decisions, who have been accused before the European Court of Human Rights, and there is already a decision by the European Court of Human Rights, why we are not even such judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u67	Dear National Deputies! According to the materials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the law enforcement authorities were aware of this fact at the end of February of a citizen’s statement. And the law enforcement agencies have actually taken a whole series of measures necessary in this case to record and prove the fault of a particular judge. If such cases take place in other judges, and if their guilt is proved again, they certainly should likewise be drawn to the legally prescribed responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u68	Please, Abdullin. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u69	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! I want to continue with the question I asked at the beginning. It refers to this particular application, this particular conduct. Your position understands that in one day you have responded as the head of the Supreme Court has reviewed the application and submitted your application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are no questions. The question is different. In that the highest body of judicial self-government, which is the Council of Judges of Ukraine, which, in principle, reflects the position of the judicial corps, publicly stated that this judge was not guilty of doing anything, that the judge did nothing, even though the whole country saw that he had been shot, shot at the employees of the NABU. It all just describes the situation that exists in the judiciary. So I ask you, you have already expressed your disagreement with this decision, with this position of the Council of Judges, by filing a case-by-case motion with the Supreme Council. That's understandable. But the question is this. The signal from Mrs. Simonenko was given to all the courts and all the judges, and now they're going to start defending theirs as they were protecting the King, just as they were protecting Kitsuk, just as they were protecting other judges, totally ostentatious, those who were public.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u70	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u71	All those judges for whom the Supreme Council has arrested and arrested, who have not been detained and arrested, who have committed crimes in public. So the question is to you. How can we respond, and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u73	Sergey Volodymyrovich, as I understand it, the address of the Council of Judges of Ukraine was that the judge was trying to escape, using firearms, calling for the abolition of full judicial immunity. In fact, this prompted the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine to make a public statement in which to express his objection that it was impossible to appeal for the removal of full judicial immunity. As far as I know, in her public address today at the briefing, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine expressed her gratitude on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Authority of the Council of Judges for its operational work and for helping to clean up the judicial corps from those who disgrace the judicial system. Furthermore, it seems to me that it is in the Ukrainian Act of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on Justice that the question of the removal of judges from full judicial immunity and the preservation of only functional ones to which the consent of the relevant body will be required.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u74	Thank you. Alexei Rybchin. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u75	Cool. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u76	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I don't think anyone in this room has any questions about the need to give consent to the criminal responsibility of this judge-in-law Buran, or a shot fired from the police. In this connection, I have a proposal for the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Let's stop the discussion because we're wasting our precious time, and we're looking at a bunch of questions, and it's clear. And I have another suggestion: finally, we have to stop this practice when we're looking at the hours of one judge. There is crime, there are facts, and let them answer to the law and bear criminal responsibility. And the time that we should use here is for people to adopt the laws they need. My offer is to stop the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u77	Thank you. It was an offer, and we have a few more speeches and questions from Fatherland and Self-Help. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Sidorovich Ruslan, do you insist? Vote? Okay. Dear colleagues, thank you to the Chief Justice. Please take your place. Please report to the committee head, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will be as brief as possible. If you'll excuse me, I'll start by saying that yesterday the Supreme Council received a hearing from the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the application of the Attorney-General concerning the granting of detention and the appropriate submission of an order for arrest under the custody of the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Bourán Aleksija Mikolaiovich. The Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council gave an appropriate commission, and yesterday, at his meeting, the committee actually unanimously decided to support the submission and to address the Supreme Council accordingly with the relevant conclusions as well as draft regulations. The draft regulations were registered yesterday, and you have them under review. If very briefly, I will remind you that according to article 220 of the committee’s terms of reference, it is exclusively, as it were, to observe and evaluate the procedural part of the matter in the sessional room. Since the committee at its meeting established the fact of receiving the Supreme Council from a proper subject, i.e. from the Head of the Supreme Court, supported by him in turn, signed by the Attorney-General, and taking into account that the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee, participated in the meeting yesterday, apart from the Supreme Court, in addition to the Chief Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Nazar Holodnicki, who reported the situation on the case, I must point out that, in accordance with article 221 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, today, during the consideration of this matter, there are those present at the meeting, except for the Head of the Supreme Court, who has just reported from the Chamber of Parliament and answered questions of the National Deputies, also the Deputy Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Vladimir Krivenko, who has just reported to the court on the matter. In addition, by exercising its right under article 221 of the Supreme Council Rules, the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa, Buran Aleksei Mikolaiovich, who, in accordance with the law, Mr. Glavo, has the right to express his position, is present. People’s deputies can also ask him appropriate questions. In order not to delay your time, I would point out once again that, on behalf of the committee, two drafts of the Order have been submitted accordingly, and in turn the Committee has acknowledged that it meets the requirements of article 220, part 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and that the submission of the Attorney-General's Office may be supported and that the Supreme Court has approved the arrest and arrest of the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Bouran Aleksija Mikolayovic. Please support the relevant two draft decisions made by the committee and give the floor now to the judge so that he can express his position. And in case there's a need for a deputy director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u79	Please, we have Judge Buran Aleksei Mikolayovich present, he asks. How much time do you need to explain? How long does it take to explain? Five minutes? The judge is asking for an explanation for five minutes, please. Please, you have your word, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't speak in Parliament every day, I can worry. But what I'm trying to say is that you're watching. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm worried, and when I'm worried, I move on to Ukrainian. Russian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u81	Respectable, so what the media is showing is interesting, I didn't come here to prove my innocence, I'm not going to prove here, there's a court and the court will say that it's my fault or not my fault. But the evidence provided by the workers does not correspond to the reality. And when I do. done to the media that I got the bribe right away and in everything when the documents that you did. Procedurally consistent with the fact that the granting of the bribe took place in several stages. Although the media shows that I got them right away. So it's about now. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] So listen carefully. The circumstances of the case on 29 March. I was in the basement of the house, at the time I heard the children scream, broken glass. And my neighbor calls me, says, "Alexey, you're under armed attack." When I went upstairs, I saw people running around in masks, and I couldn't figure out who those people were. Nobody showed me anything, but they just started breaking doors. And I took it as my family's protection. First of all, there was no bullet in my gun, this time. First of all, what was fired is not confirmed by what. It was the one bullet I accidentally shot in the office, but there were no bullets left, and I didn't shoot anyone. But in order to reflect defeat, it was necessary to intimidate the enemy, which is why I tried. I tried to do it with that kind of macaroni. After that, I'm in. I cut it. I'm not a suicide, but the facts are that I took bribes, that I'm a suicide, and that I am. I don't think that's right. So it's a po-po. I'm asking, please, so let's give it a chance. What's all this for? In order to suppress my will, so that I could tell you everything in detail when I was brought to the hospital when I arrived because my arm was cut, I was handcuffed, I wasn't allowed to leave, I wasn't allowed to say, I wasn't given a lawyer. You know what's going on? There is a violation of the law again with respect to the judge. No handcuffs, no lawyers allowed. Please, please. It's up to you to see if I can continue to collect evidence against me in accordance with the rule of law. To participate in this process. The judge's in touch, you can take it off, but it won't help. in the fight against corruption and in the fight against the restoration of the truth, because I am currently under pressure to suppress my will and. You're sorry that maybe I said a little emotionally. But when armed men come at you, and there are two children in my family who were in the house, and you don't know they're people. In what camouflage and who it is. Those who have not explained what they are doing. The procedural documents that they have drawn up have already been drawn up — I have already learned — not at the address, not at the address, not at the person. You see, in order to activate, they did everything they could to take me, to catch me, they were afraid that I would do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u82	Time. Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u83	We found it. I went to the hospital, I could be searched, no one took me to conduct these proceedings without a judge. Is that legal? I don't think there should be, we shouldn't, we shouldn't. You're building a new anti-corruption system. At present, the court is humiliated, very humiliated. Yes, we have our flaws, but I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to make it legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u84	Dear fellow national deputies, the explanation is complete. We've still got the factions on the table. Please, I think it'll be an appropriate minute from the factions who have desires. And groups. If you don't want to, you've already decided not to. Please sign up in a minute, please. One minute from the factions. And calm down, please. In a minute. Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u85	Soboljevo, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u86	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! I'll be right back so there won't be any speculation. Our faction has decided to vote in favour. But. Big buts. Doesn't that surprise you? I'm surprised that Deputy Vojtsicka, through the court, is forcing a new body that we've created to open a criminal case to investigate why 10.5 billion U.S. dollars is not being paid to the budget. The MP is forcing it, not the NABA, but the MP. So we want the anti-corruption prosecutor here right now to give information about whether there really were bullets in the gun, and let this judge, the judge's grief, prove it in court. It has to be the same as any citizen, so that he feels the same way when he's given his approval by the decision of Ukraine, where people are. But this is going to be a demonstration moment for us. We created new organs for the sea. I'm the only one who's got to get an NAB through court to open criminal proceedings at 10:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u88	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u89	10.5 billion dollars, I don't have any more words. We vote for this because we want judges to have the same rights as ordinary citizens who come to them and in whose name they decide in courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u90	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Today, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of removing the intrusiveness of the judge and bringing him to justice. Because now let him prove his innocence in the most fair, just judgment. And now let's go back to the debate on which judicial reform should be. Do you believe he won't pass the test or what? Therefore, we believe that judicial reform must radically change everyone, the entire judiciary. We'll find 9,000 people who will judge by law, not tell us here that there were no bullets in the gun. We take off the touch and prove it in the fairest, fairest Ukrainian court.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u92	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'll be back in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of bringing the judge to criminal responsibility. The only way to really clean up the judiciary system is to remove all the inviolability -- once, release all the judges -- two, and get new people -- three. Because everyone who comes to power wants to have a hand-delivered prosecutor, a hand-to-hand judge who will run them. As far as a specific case is concerned. Look at what the judge is doing. You see, he's being accused of taking the full amount of bribes, and he's only taking the pieces, and that's why, he said, he's not responsible! Oh, my God, I'm sorry! What did you parasites build in 24 years?Oh, my God! What have you led the country to?Oh, my God! No judges, no prosecutors, no power, no state! The Radical Party proposes to stop this mess, start building a country! Order the iron order in our home country!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u94	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenka's Block, one minute's notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Clearly, I don't think anyone will be in the session room right now who supports the question that this judge should stay with immunity. There's no questions, we have to take pictures, he has to go to court and answer all the questions. As he had his mansion in the best area of Odessa, he thought it was the robbers who had come. The NABA detectives finally came to him, he didn't even think they could come to him, and he shot him there. But it was clear to the judge. The point is that Mr. Buran's speech here is a diagnosis of the entire judicial system of Ukraine. We need to accept the changes to the Constitution as soon as possible if we don't want to hear the disgrace that we're hearing here. It's separate from the NABU. We want the NAB to work so effectively and qualitatively that we do not have to hear about their mistakes and how the judges run away and then they find them there. And that's why we want quality work from the NAB and we want constitutional changes in the part of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u96	Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-help. Please wait a minute. Yegor Sobolev, minute of regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u97	Self-help will vote for this decision. On behalf of the entire faction, I want to draw attention to this very important speech by this judge. He speaks of justice. He says that when he was detained, violations were committed. He says that he is afraid not to get justice in his case. In fact, this applies to so many people in this room. That's what we've been having big discussions about over the past year and a half. Everyone needs justice. And people who think they're above the law, that they can be guided by the principle: friends -- everything, enemies -- the law, then they end up under the law. Therefore, Your Honor, we vote in favour of your arrest. And we want to tell all the judges and officials who are in Ukraine to get justice, we need to create justice first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u98	People. The hammer, the will of the people. Jaroslav Moskalenko, "The will of the people", a minute's notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that we should undo the intrusiveness of this judge and not waste our time discussing it. With regard to justice, indeed, we are building a country of law, and this country by the Constitution and by all legislative acts must protect the rights of these people. And until their guilt has been proved in court, this person must have the standard of everything they need to protect him. And that's why I want to go to the DA's office and the DA's office: you have to work professionally and to the extent that you don't have the opportunity to then direct your actions against you when you're violating them in search or detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u100	One of the non-faction minutes. No record? The stock market? Please, Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are the law-makers, and right now we are agreeing to arrest this judge. But understand, the KPC clearly prescribes and provides that arrest is solely a home arrest. And we have to keep him, give him a stay and take him into custody, sorry. So I want to say, mastery, every time we hear a bribe judge say that he has either one bullet or he's a carnivore, we get a challenge from a judicial system that we can change. But you don't have to talk about it, but you have to change it! So let's finish with these judges, let's send them home, or to the liquor store, but let's clear the courtroom from the bribes that are sitting there now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u102	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Ruslan Knyazevich one minute to complete, and we're preparing for the vote, and we're about to vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u103	I thank you, Mr. Head, I would like to make a procedural point, because the last speech and several others may have misunderstood the national MPs. Guys, we're going to be voting on two rulings right now. The first decision is to grant a stay, what you're talking about, and the second order to arrest. Of course, no judge is going to be arrested right now, because only the court can authorize it. And it's the right of the prosecutor's office to apply, and the relevant investigating authorities to the court, they can take advantage of that right and not benefit from it. But we will arm them with such a possibility if the judge fails to properly perform his procedural duties, which are still provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code. However, if he properly executes them, it is the right of the investigator to determine the measure of precaution and the extent to which he is to approach the court in a precautionary manner. Parliament is currently not arresting this judge, nor should the session hall be manipulated here. We're just giving this opportunity to go to court and get a warrant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please ask all members of the national parliament to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a decision. A vote shall be taken. Draft decision to order the detention of Judge Malinović of the District Court of Odessa Boron Aleksija Mikolaiovich. Draft regulation (registration number 4340) to be adopted in general by the draft regulation 4340. Ready to vote? Please, 4340, as a whole, draft decree. Vote, please. [[17:39:21]] For 255 Actor's been approved. Next. Draft Decision concerning the granting of an arrest (in custody) to the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Burana Alexija Mikolaiovich (4341 registration number). We're voting in general. [[17:39:52]] For 247 Actor's been approved. Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. Dear fellow national MPs! We stopped by to discuss the draft Law (registration number 3739). 3739, we listened to him and discussed the draft law, reported Sergey Rybalka, if you remember, and we did not have enough votes. Colleagues, 3739: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the characteristics of the licensing of economic activities for the provision of financial services. Please, Your Honor, vote on the basis, 3739, on the basis, please. Based on the base. [[17:41:06]] For 236 The law's been passed. This is what was discussed earlier. Yes, we still have two laws to adopt. inclusion in the agenda and decision-making are 4281 and 4210. This is a day's work for decision-making -- defense two, remember? We couldn't find it either, there were no votes. 4281 and 4210. One minute. Oh, sorry, 4288. 4288 and 4210 are two projects, please include in the agenda for decision-making. That's two questions 4288 and 4210. Please include in the agenda, a proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please vote 4288, 4210 – inclusion for decision-making. [[17:42:36]] For 211 Dear colleagues, these are laws that you and I have not included in the agenda. 4288 is about the specificities of purchasing goods, jobs and services to guarantee the protection needs (4288) of the Law, Ivanchuk. We vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision 4288, for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. [[17:43:18]] For 215 No votes. 4210 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others. We vote inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, we vote. [[17:43:45]] For 203 Same position, no votes. Colleagues, 4,060 of us had a decree on the city of Kramatorsk and the city of Slavyansk. The People’s Deputy of the Ephesians. There's an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote, summary procedure. [[17:44:16]] For 199 The decision has been made. Please, Maxim Efimov. I think if we agree with her right now, we won't discuss it, we'll go back to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, were released on 5 July 2014 from 2 cities in the Donetsk region: Kramatorsk and Slavansk. They were in fact the first cities where terrorism began to spread in Ukraine. On that day, the inhabitants of the cities sighed with relief that the threat had finally gone away. Under the authority of terrorists from February to July, everyone experienced the feeling of war and terrorism. What is powerlessness, lack of ability to protect ourselves, their relatives, and their land. Daily shells, shells that entered homes and homes and homes of civilians were killed and maimed, and the nightmare survived the city as hostages of the occupying forces. Together, this has completely changed the attitude of people, and today none of them want to be under the authority of the so-called "LNR" and "DNR". On 5 July, more than thousands of Kramatarians gathered in the city's central square and fulfilled Gymn Ukraine, thus demonstrating their clear position. As is known, on 2 February 2016 Parliament adopted a decree to celebrate commemorative dates and anniversary in 2016, but unfortunately these important dates were not taken into account in the document. Days of liberation of the city of Kramatorska and Slavyanska. That is why I ask the deputies to support Decree 4060, which complements this list with dates such as 5 July, two years from the date of the liberation of the city of Kramatorska and Slavyanska from terrorists. These cities have the full right to honour, at the official level, the memory of those killed during the 2014 terrorist attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u106	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss, colleagues? 4060, we had a few hours. Do we vote on this decree 4060 as a whole? Please concentrate. 4060, please stand by. Ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! It is recommended that the draft Decree 4060 be voted on as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u108	I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:47:03]] For 238. The law's been passed. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we still have two rulings, listen carefully, this is an IT recommendation, reported yesterday by Alexander Danchenko all discussed, to support parliamentary hearing recommendations for the development of information technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u109	No discussion, they're discussed yesterday, let's say. Let's support 4198 as a whole. Do you understand? IT sphere, colleagues, please. Come on, I'm asking you to support a total of 4,198 -- information and communication technology reforms and the development of the information space of Ukraine. This is a very serious document, and we're voting, in general, please. 4198 please all support, we vote. Please support everyone. Vote. Please support everyone. [[17:48:11]] For 226 On the edge of the foll. So look at 226 who didn't vote, we have to turn off the Internet, the one against information technology, right? Okay. Thank you. Honorable colleagues and the decision on displaced persons, but not discussed, have not been discussed. No discussion? Wait a minute. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira, one minute after the decree. We turned it on 4273, a minute from the rostrum. Was it discussed? 4273 — by displaced persons. Let's support it, too. And let's move on to the cars. 4273. 4273 as a whole. By displaced persons. Let's all support it. Please, vote. 4273 as a whole. A decision under discussion. Let's support it, colleagues. [[17:49:36]] For 219 Again, colleagues. The question of judgment on displaced persons. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, go back to this decision, we've run out of votes, and support this decision. Do you understand? 4273. To return. Concentrate, take your seats. Colleagues, 4273 per person displaced. It's a decision, too. Please support her, everyone. We're voting for a return to 4273. Colleagues, please support everyone. By displaced persons. I vote for the return. Please be supportive. Come on. Vote! This is a return to the consideration of this decree. [[17:50:52]] For 226 Yeah, no one's going anywhere now. We're voting 4273, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, come back. 4273, we are voting on the draft regulation as a whole. Every voice is important. Vote, please. Vote! By displaced persons. [[17:51:23]] For 229 Actor's been approved. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. There is an offer, Ivanchuk, Andrew Ivanchuk, 4288 and 4210 to include in the agenda, but do not make the decision to continue to work with the author. 4288. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 4288 just put it in the agenda. 4288. That's a different offer. Vote! Put 4288 and 4210 into the agenda. Keep working on the defense issues with the authors. Vote. Please be supportive. Integrating in the daytime. Please support everyone, please support. Well! [[17:52:30.]] For 215 It's just getting into the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do this one more time. This is the inclusion of these two laws in the order of the day. I'm asking for your support: 4288, 4210. Vote again, one last time. Please support, we vote. Just getting into the day's work. [[17:53:03]] For 213 I see. Thank you, fellows of honor! There are no votes needed. The next law. In fact, we have 22 minutes left. Draft Law registration number 3046 and 3046-d. Robert Gorvath. Short-term in the first, first reading. But please report on the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u110	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u111	Wait, wait, wait. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. For a short cut, please support. Under a reduced procedure, 3046. [[17:54:00]] For-174 The decision has been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u112	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Robert Horvath, Majority District 68, town of Uzhgrad, block of Petra Dustenka. My colleagues and I have registered a bill of 3046 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stimulate the market for used goods, which is aimed at creating in Ukraine a civilised market for the sale of used goods, primarily the market for used cars, called trade-ins. During the drafting of the bill, there were proposals from the DFS and the Minfin, which we worked on at the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, and introduced a revised draft of Law 3046-d. So I'm going to report exactly on bill 3046-d that worked on the committee. The main reason why there is no normal functioning of the market for used means of transport in Ukraine is the ambiguity and presence of a coalition under Article 189 of the Tax Code. Today, there is a danger of recalculation of VAT at full cost in purchasing and selling the same vehicle. For the first time, there is a complete VAT on the sale of a new vehicle consumer by an official dealer, and for the second time in the re-implementation of a legal person (a dealer) of the same, but already used means of transport that was previously purchased from a consumer of a non-performing VAT. This double taxation blocks the development of the civilized market for used vehicles and drives them into the shadows. That's why we're proposing. First. Excluding the concept of uniformity in Article 189 of the Tax Code. What's that? In practice, conditions of uniformity cannot be met. For example, a car dealership must sell used vehicles for one year of release, one manufacturer, one designated business reputation, for which the sellers pay VAT at the cost of a used car, not from marginal income, which is actually double VAT. The other one. Expand the circle of entities that may be involved in the transaction of the sale of used goods by applying a special tax base rule in accordance with article 189 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Today, it is possible to purchase used goods for further realization only in natural persons. We are invited to extend this right to all persons who are not VAT payers: individuals and legal persons on a single tax, consulates, embassies, and so forth. These changes only bring Ukraine’s Tax Code into line with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u113	30 seconds, complete, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u114	to the requirements of Directive 2006/112 of the EU on a common system of value added tax. Dear colleagues, please support the draft Law on Amendments to Article 189 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (to encourage the development of the market for used goods). I would like to stress that we need to support Bill 3046-d, which has been developed and supported by the committee on the basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u115	Thank you. The committee is headed by Nina Petrovan Jujanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, the author has just reported that after he introduced the draft Law to the committee, a revised version has emerged. In view of the fact that the authors proposed to exclude from article 189 of the Tax Code and the standards to be left behind, they are essential, including the order in which the price of the goods used is determined. That's why the exceptions that were made further by the authors, we ruled out in our draft legislation, which is that they remained in the current code of the Tax Code in order to really bring the market for the sale of used goods into line with European standards. Therefore, when considering the bill on the committee, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a law elaborated in the committee the draft Act amending article 189 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Market in Used Goods (registration No. 3046-d). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two for, two for against, please sign up. I continue my session, colleagues, until 6 p.m. 15 minutes. Oleg Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u118	Aunt Ostrikova, please. Aunt Ostrich, please give me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction calls on everyone to support this bill, because today, through the dollar exchange, it is virtually impossible to buy a new car for an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. As far as this bill is concerned. It allows more efficient sales of used cars, because today, because of the extremely poor standards of the Tax Code, it is not possible to put your car on the board at the dealership. This bill also solves the problem of allowing not only the purchased machines to release VAT, but also those who will appear on the commission, in which case only Delta for the dealership will be taxed. So we urge everyone to support him. And notice that we still have a very pressing problem to solve is the problem of a car on a foreign registration. That's why we, in co-authorship with other MPs, passed a bill that makes amnesty for all cars on foreign registration, and also reduces, reduces excise duties considerably, and makes cars more accessible when dissipated. So we urge everyone to support this bill. And we're really looking forward to a bill on auto for amnesty for a car with a foreign registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u120	Please, Dmitri Saints, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u121	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that more than 460,000 cars have been used in Ukraine in the past year. Because of existing laws, the vast majority of cars were sold in the shadows, that is, through copyrights. The All - Ukrainian Association of Automobile Importers has repeatedly called on the tax authorities to clarify what similar goods are. But I didn't get a normal, smart, rational answer. So this bill is useful, it needs to be supported in order for this huge market to come out of the shadow of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u122	Yuri Solovay, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u123	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, in the end we've come up with issues that concern not one person, but issues that concern me, I'm not afraid of that word, millions of Ukrainians, it's about the market of used cars. And in the end, I'm sure today, we're going to be able to get past the auto-importers' lobby, who for years have not allowed Ukrainians to buy cars from abroad at prices at which they can actually buy today, and to overpay the customs and excises that made these cars more expensive. So I urge everyone today to support this and the next bill not only on the ground but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u124	Thank you. Ivan Rybak, please, "Peter Dust Block" and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill, and if we have enough time for the next 3251 bill, as they will really solve the problem of used cars. It is no secret today that in western Ukraine people will choose citizenship from other countries so that they can travel to Ukraine by car with foreign registration. So, honourable colleagues, we are voting today for these two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Draft Law (registration number 3046-d) on the basis of a signal vote. On the ground, a signal vote. Ready? 3046-d on the basis of a signal vote. We're voting on the basis. [[18:03:28]] For 216 216. 217, 218, 219. It was a signal, it was a signal vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to the vote again. Does everyone support the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your support. Now I'm going to ask you 50 times: come back, don't come back. Okay, please give me a 3046-d. Signal on the base, please. [[18:04:27]] For 212 No, I get it, don't I? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there any point in discussing 3251? None. We'll look at it together. Dear fellow national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a deal. Ladies and gentlemen, on April 2, the entire world defines the International Day of Information on Autism. On 3 April, colleagues, 2016 The Association of International and All-Ukrainian Social Protection Organisations together with the Football Federation of Ukraine plans to hold the first charity match of the parliamentary cup. Teams include a national team of Ukrainian MPs and a collective team of journalists. Which will take place at 2 p.m. at Vannikov Stadium at the address: Lab Lane, 7a. The goal of the match is to help children with autism. The sum of $200,000 raised is for educational programs and special sensory rooms at the Primavera Coordination Centre, which provides children with autism. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support this action. Thank you, Your Honor. He's going to announce it. Announcements, distinguished colleagues. I am reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine is a Euro-Atlantic space!".. Irina Vasilovna Frez, the leader of the interfractional MPs, was elected as the national deputy. The unification is Ukraine’s national deputy Shepherd Taras Timofiowiovich. Welcome, noble fellows. On this, my fellow dignitaries, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow morning's meeting will begin at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your work.
