ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, ready for registration? Dear colleagues, we're taking up seats, preparing for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:04:41]] There are 274 deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the government of Vladimir Borisovich. [[Applause]] I would also like to announce that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Victor Ivanovich Vuka. We welcome our national MP. [[Applause]] We have a rule from 10 to 11 hours is an hour of questions to the government. Please come into the hall and prepare for the government's hour of questioning. Dear colleagues! On the third Saturday of May 2003, the European Day is celebrated in Ukraine. It's a special day for the Ukrainians. Two years ago, during the Dignity Revolution, the Ukrainian people proved that Ukraine is an independent European state. We are a nation that stood near the origins of European civilization, Ukraine and was one of those states that created Europe as a phenomenon, as a civilization space. And I want to thank everyone: both MPs and experts, and especially European friends in Ukraine, who are doing a huge job to improve Ukrainian legislation and bring it closer to EU standards. Despite political obstacles, despite the Russian Federation's military aggression in Crimea and Donbas, we are moving quickly towards European integration. With a holiday! Ukraine is Europe, as we talked about in Maidan. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, traditionally in the morning at the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was an application for a recess from two factions, from the Radical Party and the faction of the Fatherland. But this time, two factions agreed to replace a half - hour break with a tribune. Who will have the word? I'd like to speak to Oleg Valeriovich Lyashka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! I'm sure you're all seeing and not blind, that the Radical Party faction in full two weeks in a row is blocking the parliamentary rostrum. We're not asking for anything, we're asking for what the Constitution gives us, and it gives us the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies. We ask that we be given the opportunity, as an opposition parliamentary force, to exercise our right to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate corruption by senior officials of the state. You're depriving us of this right, you're not giving us the opportunity to create this commission to investigate corruption in the actions of the President of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the finance minister of Ukraine Daniluk, the business environment of President Prašenk. We've been standing here for two weeks, I'm sorry, but there's no truth in our feet, and it's not easy for us to stand here, and you don't care. You're apathetic, you're initiativeless, you're actually part of a corrupt government that robs Ukrainian citizens. So we have no choice but to step up the protest. You see, we brought the schedules here, it's the schedules, because we're going to start the night here, if you don't immediately give the team to the Parliamentary Secretariat to register the draft order for the commission of inquiry, the three leaders of the opposition factions -- the Radical Party, the Self-Help and the Fatherland -- we signed a draft order for the commission of inquiry two weeks ago. It's still a draft decision, not registered. We demand that you be instructed to register a draft order for the creation of a commission of inquiry into corruption and the offshore of the state's senior officials and consider this ruling in Parliament. 150 votes is required to create a commission of inquiry. At Yanukovich, the opposition had the right to create commissions of inquiry. Today you're telling me, you have a democratic coalition, and you're depriving us of the possibility of investigating the crimes of power! Billions of them are moving abroad, not paying taxes, not stealing people! Last night, 40 bracelets were raised to the minimum wage! If we didn't steal billions, if we paid taxes, we'd live richer than in Germany or Switzerland. Therefore, the opposition faction of the Radical Party requires the registration of a draft decision to create a commission of inquiry, to create this commission of inquiry, and to investigate the corruption of senior officials of the state. And with the opportunity, we're asking the government to pay the citizens the price of gas in terms of consumption of 1,200 cubes. Stop robbing people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u3	Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm going to study and see if there's any legal basis for the registration. And if my camera responds, I'm going to give you a proper assignment. Dear colleagues, from 10 to 11 o'clock, we have an hour of questions to the government. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the procedure for holding an hour of questions to the government, as defined in article 229, section 4. I remind you: 30 minutes -- answers to written questions from MPs and groups and 30 minutes -- questions from national MPs to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's the MPs, not the factions of 30 minutes. And one minute on each question, two minutes to answer. And today we invite you to address the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Ukraine's first minister of agrarian politics and food, Taras Viktorovich Kutov. I'm asking the camera to turn on Tarasa Viktorovich's microphone for the performance. Please, Taras Viktorovich, we are waiting for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, it's so good to see you all. If you can, the next slide. I would like to present today, after the general presentation of the Prime Minister of that activity that we are planning to carry out within the Cabinet of Ministers, that cluster of priorities that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food today puts before us as urgent and that we will focus on. The development strategy is called: three plus five. There are three main ways in which we want to consolidate, that's the first question of land reform, that's the launch of a transparent circle of land, and I'll explain in detail what this is all about. Our second priority is to reform support and focus on small and medium-sized farmers. The third is corporate reform, increasing their profitability, increasing efficiency, and privatization in cases where we see that this is the only fair and effective way to develop. Do. These are the three key aspects on which we are oriented, five additional aspects. Please use the next slide. These are the main directions related to the development of rural areas that are closely linked to the support of small and medium - sized producers, the expansion of markets, above all, to value-added markets, organic production and low - quality crops, irrigation, and the safety and quality of food products, namely, the launch of efficient maintenance. Here's the next slide and the next one, please. A block of land reform, colleagues, what are we talking about in the context of the earth’s circulation? The thesis that the Ministry wants to offer me as its minister, which we discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers, is related to the possibility of selling leases to land and to the bank’s lease to land. It's very important to explain in this incision that we're not talking about selling land, but we're talking about actually a derivative tool that, in turn, will allow strategic investors to have a long-term horizon for their investments. This, in turn, will allow natural persons – the owners of the pies today to have constant rent payments from those who rent. And we're not taking this position because we realize that today it's one of the main sources of filling the family budget in the country. And this will also allow the banking sector today to lend fully to the sector. Do you know how it is today? In fact, these rental rights are now being sold through an enterprise sales mechanism, but the owners of the pies have no real bearing on pricing or on the actual possibility of doing so. In the context of banking lending, the problem is that today, when the enterprise actually becomes bankrupt, the bank, when it comes to the company to collect assets, the pies that were leased, which were actually the main asset of this enterprise, are signed into another new enterprise. And in fact, those properties that are in one village or another are left without a land block, and they are actually becoming uninterested. And the same bankers then buy it for 10-20 percent of the same bank value. Accordingly, this has happened so many times in our banking sector today, in fact, the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises has ceased. Today only large businesses are being credited that can mortgage those assets of substantial value that cover those credit needs of the enterprise. So let me stress and repeat: it's about selling lease rights to land and it's about the possibility of bank mortgages on these leases. What's important about this incision is to say that, in fact, if we successfully implement this reform and allow this right lease to be realized, we're very important, I want to stress that it's the small and medium-sized producers that are the priorities for the ministry today, that they will be able to consolidate those small volumes, 100-150 hectares needed today at the level of the family to do the farming. There are a few aspects that I'm going to focus on, but the key questions are shown on this slide. What is also important in the context of the start-up of the lease? We're going to have an indicative estimate of this lease right. And when one of the critical points today is that if the open market of the land and the valueless land is sold, if we have the right to rent, we're going to understand the already indicative premium, that's the price that theoretically in the case of sales between natural persons and natural persons by the Ukrainians of these pies, which they can theoretically have. And by focusing on these indicators, the price when they are closer to European indicators, perhaps at that very moment (possibly!) We'll go back to the question of the next phase of land reform, but I think at this point what we're proposing is enough. You know, there's a bill in the Supreme Council that we're looking at that actually provides for the transfer of land from the state authority, as it is now, to the local authorities, and I think it's also a component that will be important in cutting down this land component of our ministry. There are also a few points that have to be settled in parallel with this, but this is going to be considered in the block. That we will likewise propose from the Ministry – that all outstanding land issues related to the launch of this component be consolidated into a single bill. We work with public organizations in the context of uniting these efforts and forming one legislative act that we will present on the committee and in the Supreme Council so that it can be voted on. We think that the result that can be achieved through this transparent circle is the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because they will have a limited capacity to consolidate the ranges of 100 to 150 hectares. Because when big businesses are being sold today, it's usually 3-5 thousand. And the little ones have nothing to do with it. If possible, the next slide, going to the question of state support. And then there's the next slide. You know, very long times and very large amounts of resources were supported by agriculture. But if you ask the average farmer in the village today: Is there really support and was it? The vast majority of people will say that there was no such support. Yes, the programs are mentioned by the netizens, and the programs for gardening are mentioned. By the way, we have the debt of the budget under these 722 million dollars, these are the people, these are the money that people in the courts today are willing to pay back to themselves on previously approved and validated state programs. So in the context of support, these answers about the fact that there is no support, because first of all, this support was for everyone, without guidance on the quality of the borrower that took the money, not on the quality of the borrower, but very often, and you know that, within the corruption scheme, these funds were being spent, and many of the people who received these funds at the start realized that they didn't have to pay back, and they just took them in their pocket and shared them with the officials. The second aspect is the minimum amount of this support. This support did not allow for growth and a radical change in the overall production relationship for farmers, it was only and always part of the work capital of these farmers, it was not an opportunity to push. What do we propose? We suggest that support be given to groups of farmers and small players so that the amount they support is sufficient to allow them to finance some of the major assets in these groups. For example, Poland's experience tells us that singles were not supported by groups, 5-7 farmers are united, and within that support for 5-7 farmers they have the opportunity to place a small drought, a small elevator, some transport aid to have for their integration, and this makes them competitive. Today, farmers, due to technological characteristics, cannot be competitive with large volumes, they cannot use large-scale techniques, they cannot make anhydrous ammonia, they have no power supply at the right time to sell grain, they can dry this grain, and they can be much more effective accordingly. What can make them competitive today? This is, first of all, state support, once, but it can't always be. And going into the niche spheres. For example, a large holding company will never engage in organic crops. Today, organic crops in terms of production in Ukraine are 0.2 percent of the total. In terms of money, it's less than 16 million euros. This is at the same level that Ukraine itself generates about 16 billion in the cove. So this is the niche where farmers can be successful. To do this, they need to be helped to get certified, and they need to be given the kind of support that will logically enable them to reach those markets. The infrastructure of those state-owned enterprises, and this is going to be the third block that I want to talk about, and it has to be used to support small and medium-sized enterprises, not to serve as actually an additional source of labor capital for large companies and actually their additional assets. Therefore, with this in mind, we believe that direct support should be tied – we would propose to do so in the section of the Agrarian Support Act – should be linked to the extent to which agricultural production has been implemented in the previous period. This should not be every year a marathon, believing that it is necessary, as it should, and so forth. For the next year, we proposed this strategy for 1 percent of this support. To compare: in the United States it's 10 percent, in Europe it's 20 percent. In monetary terms, it's 3 billion dollars for the next year. This year, we are also planning for the direct support of small and medium-sized farmers to make the 450 million changes that I hope will be voted on by Parliament. And if they're used, and we're planning on using it in a concentrated way. And for this to be used, a very important moment, please pay attention to this, was used and distributed, not by commissions, as it is today, but by farmers' associations. To be open - minded meetings of these farmers’ associations, where they, knowing each other, will determine who can accept this aid from the State. As an example, I'll just tell you. During this month, the Ministry was able to hold four selectors with areas. Totals when asked, "How many farmers do you have registered in the area?" Averages from thousands to 2,000 farmers. When an additional question is asked, "How many real farmers can you show that you can go to tomorrow and show them their experience?" The answer is usually 15-20 farmers. That's the real percentage of where we have farming today. And why is this direction of support selected as the key, and I'm also going to give one example. The first days at the Ministry I had a meeting with a delegation from Denmark, the Prime Minister came to Ukraine, you know, ministers and there we discussed. In Denmark, it processes 2.6 million acres [2.6 million ha] of land. We're doing an average of 26 at least. The bill of sale of our agricultural product is $14.6 billion. Denmark, with ten times less land, has 24 billion euros: more than 50 percent more, with ten times more land. This is the path that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Less. This is the way to go. I realize that it is important for me to see that the shaft in the state is tied to the weather and is not attached to additional jobs. So if we can overcome this philosophical change along with you, I think we're going to have visible results for the next six months, given the budgetary changes I've been talking about today. If you can have the next slide, please. Reform of state-owned enterprises. While still on the committee, my colleagues and I listened to the state - owned enterprises under MinAPK. During the previous reporting period, the losses of these companies amounted to 3.6 billion dollars. We're always talking about that there's an extraordinary potential for development, but unfortunately, all the time, Ukraine's independence, except that there's an extraordinary potential for corruption, nothing has been demonstrated. Nowhere in the world has the state been an effective owner. These assets must have a real effective host. And in this context, I'd like to say what's going on with Ukrispirt. By the end of the year, we want to go out with a final vision and hand over to the State-owned State Enterprise, Ukrispirt. There's a lot of debt there, but there's a general concept: first, all the factories that are in the state enterprise should be launched today. They have to demonstrate their effectiveness, not the way 5-7 companies work today, all the others that can even work stand. And this is done to make that black side of the matter more valuable. Everyone understands that, and that's what you have to do. And the second. Within the framework of the state-owned enterprise itself, by the end of the year, we need to come up with a clear, clear model of privatization and do so. These should be 5, 7, 10 clusters in Ukraine, investors who buy assets that buy licenses and the Ministry makes regulations in the context of licenses and conditions. Everything else is the work of law enforcement. We have to put a dot on those terms. I'm not talking about other businesses, there's a lot to explain. But one small moment that I'd like to pay attention to. Privatization isn't always the whole enterprise in the hands of a new investor, we sell 25-30 percent with the opportunity to buy an extra 30.40 percent. But this extra-purchase auction only comes true if an investor is doing an investment program, it reaches financial values so that it doesn't buy what an investor buys.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u5	Please, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u6	Thank you. He's not running the program. And in fact, we have enterprises that stand and there are no extra jobs. Yesterday on one of the airs, I was asked when will a milkmaid in Ukraine have a thousand euros to pay as in Europe? My fellow milkmaids are long gone in Europe. It's all mechanized, automated. If we're going to Europe on that old train, we're not going anywhere. Modernization of the means of production, new approaches, and then only we will have the results and the model that Europe has today, and the United States. For a very short time, with very little time, if any of the following are possible, the five key points can be moved to the moment. I'll be out of presentations now, just what I'd like to focus on. I wouldn't want the agrarian branch, which today shows good indicators, to be and to be looked at in the rest of the way. The key word here is product. In the agricultural sector, the success of the industry relates only to what is needed today in the countries of the world: both in Egypt and in Iran and in Saudi Arabia is our grain. And that's all that brings out the industry, not that we've made some extraordinary achievements there. Achievements are made only by private companies that have built the infrastructure that allows these grain volumes to be exported today. That's all that's been done, and if this element, we're going to stop at it, we're not going to be able to have any further steps in the growth of the sector. So, colleagues, those successes that are today are our God-given positions and successes of those enterprises that have been able to develop logistics and open up to themselves, including markets, and have the additional resources that they have today. These resources, through the stock exchange, because of the capital participation, are not available today in small and medium-sized players, and the state itself should give them this opportunity. The average farm size in Poland is 8 hectares [8 ha]. And we have more than enough opportunities to have the same successful model as our neighbors. Because, I'm sorry, I'll give you an example: today, Ukraine imports apples for tens of millions of euros. Can we even close this primitive segment? Today, Ukraine has an imbalance in Greek and it is quite easy to close, having the right program with small and medium players. I believe that we can do this, we really need the support and support of this right under two key laws. The first law is the Law on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands. And the approach that we see in it, I briefly described today: there are no critical points that would harm Ukrainian citizens today. And the second is the Act on State Support for Small and Medium Players. It will be called the Agribusiness Support Act. But I want to focus again: we're choosing a vector for small ones with added value, and that's what Ukraine will be like with a multiple farming method in a village that will allow us to preserve both villages and the population that lives in the villages today. Thank you so much for your support, and, God forbid, you have succeeded in your hard work. Believe me, with the experience of comparison, I understand that it is really very difficult for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Taras Viktorovich. And I give the floor to the head of the National Agency of Ukraine for the Service of the State of Constantine Alexander Vashchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! The questions that were raised with the government, in particular the members of the People's Front faction, relate to the implementation of the State Service Act. As you know, since January 1st in Ukraine, we have a new law that has defined principles, legal principles, the provision of public, professional, politically impartial, effective and, above all, citizen-oriented public service, which functions in the interests of the state and society. Both the previous government and today's government has done everything in their power to prepare legislation, which is about 30 acts of government, orders from ministries and authorities to ensure the implementation of this law. By May 1, 15 government decrees had been adopted, 10 orders registered with the Ministry of Justice. And I can report that to date, all the normative principles that are necessary for the effective implementation of the new State Service Act to begin are created by the government. In the list of documents that you have, there is a complete list of those bills and government projects that are more loyal to government decisions. In addition, the government is taking steps to create effective services for staff in ministries and departments, which should, in fact, be a key tool for reforming, training for public officials, well, and other organizational measures are being taken to ensure that they are as clear and accessible as possible, and for the managers of ministries and departments, including local executives, human resources workers, to be able to use and know effectively, and to own the tools that they have developed. Another issue that concerned the government was the legal basis for the activities of officials of local self - government. As you know, officials in Ukraine divide into two groups, such as those working in government and those serving in local governments. I would like to say that, until now, the work of officials of local self - government bodies is governed by a law that has been passed for quite some time. And today the issue of liberation, appointment and promotion is regulated by this law. But to date, the government has introduced a new Law on Service in Local Self-Government, the registration number of its 4489, which is now being prepared for second reading, into the first reading by the Ukrainian Parliament. And I would like to take this opportunity to ask the MPs to support this bill in order for us in Ukraine to have a single public service system that operates on the single principles, principles, approaches involved with the introduction of competitive selection for all posts, clearly defined issues of dismissal and appointment of officials. Individually, we need to regulate the activities of those officials who are elected by local authorities. Similarly, establish a transparent model of pay, which should depend on the economic development of the territorial community. In fact, this is one of the money. If the community develops successfully, there should be an appropriate incentive for officials who serve the appropriate functions of local self - government. In fact, the bill creates the capacity to reform local self-government and decentralization in Ukraine. And another question that is one of the priorities for the government and about which honourable national deputies have asked their questions. This is about developing a strategy for reforming government in Ukraine. This is a basic document that we work with experts from the European Union. This is about the principles of change in the organization of the government system in Ukraine. This strategy consists of several key blocks: it's a change of approach to policy-making and decision-making; it's a reform of the government itself and of the central executive bodies; it's a reform of the public service, administrative services, electronic governance. That is, a sufficiently complex document, one of the purposes of which is to obtain financial assistance from the European Union for reform of government. As of today, the new government has already identified the leader of this reform, this is Vice-Prime Minister Klimpush-Cincadze, who has, in fact, led the process of furthering the strategy. All the key issues today are agreed with both Ukrainian experts and representatives of the European Union. A plan of action to implement this strategy is being developed. And I'm sure she'll be considered and taken up at the Cabinet of Ministers in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u9	Thank you, dear colleagues. Please get ready. It'll be here in a minute. will start recording questions to the government. Please, Your Honor, a question-and-question report is being made for the entire Cabinet of Ministers. Starting recording, please. Thank you. First question from Peter Dustock's Block. National MP Nemirowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u10	I give the word of Melnichenko Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u11	Please, Melnichenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u12	I would like the APC minister to clarify the situation surrounding the two agricultural funds of Ukraine. Honourable Tarase Viktorovich, on May 17, the head of the NABU, Artem Sitnik, stated that he had been arrested by the deputy prosecutor of the Kyiv region, who had been involved in the theft of government sugar for 30 million dollars, for the theft of state sugar in December 2015. The Head of the Agrarian Foundation appealed to the Agrarian Committee, then with you in charge, to intervene with the deputies in this matter. From this rostrum, our colleague, Chekita Hennady Leonidovich, addressed the National Deputies, who made several parliamentary appeals to the President and the law enforcement authorities. So after the statements by Artem Sitnik, we can say that the process is moving. But there was information on a number of occasions: former Agrarian Fund leaders Alexander Kiruk, Vladimir Dranj, and their team were involved in this theft. At the same time, we have information that you want to return this team to the leadership of the foundation, and one of its members, Mr. Nečanov, has already headed the state institution of the Agrarian Fund. We know Mr. Radchenko, the head of the Agrarian Foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Please turn on the minister's microphone. I just want more colleagues to be able to ask questions. Minister of the APC, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. In fact, in fact, during the committee's leadership, we have repeatedly addressed law enforcement agencies, and I think that the result of our appeals is the successful implementation of the NABA developments that they have demonstrated in recent days. As far as the manager's concerned. At the Agrarian Fund, the Agrarian Fund -- what's relevant to the state budget -- there's no manager at the moment. In the context of events that have taken place, Mr. Lipovy, the acting director, is removed from these responsibilities. With regard to the PAT "Agrarian Fund", there is the previous leader of Radchenko, who is responsible for his actions, analysis of his activities, and so will decisions. But I would like to point out that the APC Minister cannot appoint these persons, because the competence to appoint these persons is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. So the Cabinet of Ministers will make the right decision, and then we will analyse its effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Deputy Velitchovich of the People's Front, your question. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u17	Please turn on the lapina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u18	Lapin Igor, 22 constituency. I have a question for the Minister of Education. Please tell me a number of questions. First question. Today we've seen in the social media, like a bastard, is Alexander Fursov, the director of one of the schools in Kharkiv County, so he beat up the boy for a Ukrainian hairstyle as an "inhabitant." And there's bodily damage. This is, I'm reminding you, the I-III public education school has graduated from the Dergachev District Council of Kharkiv Region. That's the first question, that is, when this bastard is released. I think you'd have to take it. Take action. And the second question. In the town of Uzhgorod there was a KNZ, where the school was replaced. The date and time of the resuscitation of the test have not yet been reported to parents. Not enough, they won't publish the testicles. So two questions: Kharkiv district and town of Uzhgrad Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, on the question of the city of Harkov and the case of this school. First of all, this should also be the subject of an investigation – this is the situation itself. And according to the results of this investigation, of course, such a person will not be able to work. We're going to decide that question. It's about Uzhgrad. The children will no doubt receive an attestation. I don't understand where this information is that they're not going to be tested. It's gonna be okay. They also have a resession in which they are supposed to compose the NPPs of those who need to enter universities. Those who do not go to universities will be making a public summary test again at school. And they're going to be tested. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u20	Thank you. Please ask me the next question from the self-help MP of Kiral Sergius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u21	Yegor Sobolev will generalize. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u22	Please, Sobola's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to speak to you personally. The point is that my correspondence with the Ministry of Internal Affairs proves that the Ministry is not going to quickly implement the very important anti-corruption law that you and I passed in this video camera room on the road. You remember the idea of automatic video cameras recording all the violations, not the Dashers. And there's a working group that's now being formed, and a regulatory framework has begun to be developed. Judging from their answers, they plan to do so for 20 years. In fact, the law was passed last spring and is still not implemented. A huge request: taking it under personal control, that's what people will feel, that's what will save a lot of lives, and that's what is really a resistance to corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u24	Egor Viktorovich, thank you for your question. I will certainly pay attention to this question. And in road safety, the government's business plan is separate, because we're just an extremely large number of people losing our lives on roads, and this issue needs to be resolved, obviously, and including the auto-fixing of all the traffic offences. We will certainly pay attention to this and give you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u25	Illenko Andry Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u26	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the government, because I think it's very important and it's about the safety of our citizens. Quite alarming information, which has been available freely, that since early 2016 there have been nine accidents in the operation of nuclear power plants in Ukraine because they are working at maximum capacity. Clearly, the current energy situation is that we need to compensate for all of these problems that we now have, to produce electricity. But, please tell me, what measures are being taken now to make us feel together and all Ukrainians feel safe, and we understood that all our nuclear power plants are now operating in absolutely normal mode and without any threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u27	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Illenka, a few words. First of all, I agree with your thesis, and I have to say, even now a stop in South Ukraine has passed literally 30 minutes ago. Of course, these flaws, they didn't occur in a month or 10 or 30, are the result of the wrong work, let's say for the last year and a half. I'm more than convinced that we're going to change this trend, and we want your help, including. Especially for more than six months, like the accounts of the NAEC "Energoatom" are blocked by incomprehensible debt. Following this debt, the Ukrainian Security Service was directly involved in the work, other authorities that criminalized it. But so far, Ukraine's executive services are all blocked without excluding the NAEC's "Energot". And I don't understand the reason for this blockage. I think that this blockage of accounts and the inability to pay for those who fit into the NEC by Energoatm is, creates a danger for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u29	I have a question for the government. The holiday season is about to begin. And for thousands and thousands of citizens of Ukraine, the issue of internal rail movements will become relevant. The thing is, the Crucifixion has a very uncomfortable logistics for today. And it seems that not only does it not promote internal tourism but it only slows it down. This refers to the tourist attraction of our country. So, I have a question: is the new minister of infrastructure going to make a modern and effective logistics system? Does he offer new directions? So many interesting directions that connect cities, such as the south and the north of Ukraine, simply do not exist. The previous minister kept saying that these directions were not profitable. But there are specific examples when the Belarusian Railway started its trains in the same direction, and they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Government, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. That's a really interesting question. First of all, when making decisions on opening new connections, the Ukrainian Railway has to study the economic efficiency of making a decision. And we're really working in that direction. And I think we're going to learn this question and answer it separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u32	Let me have a few words. The D.A. replied so, I didn't even realize what was going to happen to the Crucifixion. Dear colleagues! I think the Crucifixion needs a whole new approach to management. And one of the important decisions that we've made, personnel, is that after a public competition for the appointment of the head of the Crossroads, the government has taken a decision after the nomination committee has made this proposal, to appoint a sufficiently high-quality expert as the head of the Crossroads, and it has the task and renewal of the operations of the Cruising Crossroads and the development of the entire economy. I believe that the new management will bring new quality to the work of Cruises and, in particular, the transport of people and passenger transports and freight. So I think in the near future we're going to be presenting a new management from the Railroad, a very clear program. On May 15, the new leader of the Crossroads began to execute. comes to the fulfillment of his duties. And we're going to see that plan that's going to be presented, and then everyone gets the answers to the questions about the development of HlV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u33	Thank you. Melniczuk gives the word “Dove ” for a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Vladislav Golub, 197 constituency, Cherkaščina, faction of Peter Prashenko. I am. Well, first of all, I want to thank the government that we see on the next Friday how effective the mechanism of cooperation has settled between the government and parliament, and this is really very happy. And also, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like to address you one moment in the sense that we are now looking at the possibility of changing the Rules and it would be very appropriate if we also invited the heads of the district administrations on these days, because there are a lot of issues that we can take away during this cooperation. But the question to the government. On July 1st of last year, there was a great tragedy in the city of Cherkas. Unfortunately, there was a fire in, let's say, the famous Mecca Cercas in the theater. This theater is still unrenovated. I think it would be very possible to predict the allocation of money from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund for the reconstruction of this cultural city of Cherkasa. I. Considering that Jamal, for example, won Euroworking, would be a very important victory for both Ukraine and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u35	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u36	It would be a very important victory for both Ukraine and the city of Cherkasa if we looked at the possibility of having, for example, Euroworking in Cherkasa, and at the same time, we would really restore the only, I emphasize, the only godless Mecca in the city of Cherkasa is the local theater. This is a matter for the government. And also, Hennady Grigorovich, unfortunately, I have to speak to you again about the activities of the State Architectural Inspectorate in the Cherkas region. Because, for example, a socially responsible business that is located in the Cherkas region at its own expense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u37	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u38	By not using the state budget at all, it converts the heat from the Central District Hospital, for example, in the city of Złotonosza to alternative sources of heat. And now the State Architectural Inspection is coming and putting in some sort of violation. So I have a question: we're doing energy efficiency or we're doing some kind of corrupt scheme that, I can guess where the legs are coming from. But I would like you to take another look at the work of this body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u39	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u40	This question was on a previous question to the government about the work of the State Architectural Inspectorate. Has there been any change to the best side or not? The person you told me about wasn't assigned, she's not there, and that's normal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, yeah, that would be fair. Well, let's deal with this project and this object. What does the head of the district government do there? Where is he looking? Gennady Grigorovich, please clear up and inform the national deputy by the end of the day if it is necessary to make personnel decisions. Thank you. Oh, about the theater. Absolutely. A problem that needs to be solved. Now all you have to do is figure out where to get the sources to do it. Thank you for asking. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u41	And by the way, we took it to the government, we brought it to the theater, it's for the government, I took it. And in fact, they just had 146 million "out of the sky" there, and you can see they want to do the long-distance. And I think it's not a historical building at all, and there's a 250-seat modern room, because there's 50 people going there at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u42	Thank you. I'm on my own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u43	I'm the only one I'd like to add. I'm sorry, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u44	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u45	Under budgetary decentralization, all cities, including Cherkas, now have sufficient financial resources. And I think that this question could be solved, including through co-financing of these tasks. It's more of a responsibility and it's a more efficient use of government resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u46	Thank you. In turn, Mr. Head, I will reply that the changes to the Rules that have already been registered yesterday provide for three hours of debate with the government. And I'm sure this will increase our cooperation dynamics and the question of just studying the document and supporting it in the room. Now the question is given to Yuri Derevyankov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanco is a political party called Will. I have a question for the Prime Minister and Minister of Energy. Tell me, what are the ingredients of the new tariff on gas, which was just recently raised, given what the previous government called it "reasonable," and now it's about four times more than cost. That's the first question. And the second question. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, this is the case with the authorities of local self-government. The Ministry of Statistics, the State Bureau of Statistics at the beginning of the year improved the so-called "household book" in every rural and village council. As a result of this improvement, all rural and rural heads have been demanding a return of that form for 4 to 5 months because all data related to farm accounting has been lost, which relates to the calculation of people who are not members of the individual agricultural sector. There is no way, including taking into account the characteristics of property for taxation and everything else. And for four months now, there's no movement on the part of the Ministry of Statistics. Please intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u48	Thank you. As for statistics, the First Vice Prime Minister's assignment, he'll figure it out, and what we can help decide, we'll decide. As for the price of gas. It's an extremely important subject and it's extremely difficult. In fact, the government decided that the price was marketable, not artificial, which could be fixed by any contract. For example, six to seven years ago, the Russian gas that was supplied to Ukraine cost $235, while the Ukrainian government fixed the price of $450, gave an order to Naftogazu and was awarded a contract of $450 per thousand cubic metres. We understand that these are tens of thousands of dollars per thousand, over 10,000 dollars per thousand cubes. This led to, in fact, threats to national security. And the past government in 2014-2015 has made a great deal of effort to move away from the cabal terms of the contract, to move from supplying gas from the Russian Federation to supplying Western importers in such a way that our energy dependency is not at risk and, in general, independence is not threatened. In fact, the price is determined by the market, the German Habi has a market price at which gas is purchased and supplied to Ukraine. What is involved in Ukrainian gas consumption? I was recently at the Shebelin gas plant, and I was looking at the state of my own gas production today. So I want to inform you that for decades, our own oil and gas industry has been destroyed, and this has been done entirely deliberately to destroy Ukrainian extraction, to have a dependence on Russian gas, and this, accordingly, would be a complete dependence on us, energy, economic, including the independence of our nation, and that was politics, unfortunately, too. From 2006 to 2013, Crushing, a state-owned company, the only one in Ukraine to obtain Ukrainian gas, was granted several permits, at a time when private companies in Ukraine were granted more than 150 permits. I mean, actually. And none of this company sold gas below market value. They didn't sell it or sell it, they sell it, commercial gas, and they sell it to other territories. Moreover, there has never been a low price for gas in Ukraine. All that was understated for the population, or 7,200, was 3,600. It was a difference that was compensated directly to Naftogazu. There was no social justice and no address, because the person who had high income had a large house paid for this part of the cubes of 3,600 dollars. And for a rich person, the government budget also compensated for the possibility of pension, salary, and so forth. What Is Done Today? There's a market price for gas, which is determined by the market. It's not an artificial contract, it's a market. German. The stock market, where you can see online, how much it costs, what are the offers, and everything else. Next. It is supplied to Ukraine and has an appropriate price in Ukraine. As soon as there's a downturn on the stock market, this gas is going to go down. If, God forbid, there could be an increase in the stock market, the prices would be adjusted accordingly. We have overcome corruption because double prices have allowed all gas users and have a bearing on gas to write gas on the population at an underpriced price, while the State budget has compensated companies, and this gas has been resold twice at an overpriced price when the state has already paid for it, and commercial institutions have also paid for it. This equipment was worth about a billion dollars a year for Ukraine. A billion! And for independence, it's 53 billion. This is a completely clear anti-corruption step. As far as we're concerned, we are. There was no self - worth in 1590 dollars for Ukrainian gas. It was a deliberately low cost of gas to lead Crushing to poverty and bankruptcy. Only last year did they suffer hundreds of millions of dollars of damage from their activities. We were in production capacity, gas acquisition equipment in 1971, and they don't have any bracelets for modernization. This is an absolute destruction of Ukrainian independence! Thus, the setting of market prices, completely open and transparent, enables corruption to be overcome, restores Ukrainian gas consumption and restores Ukrainian independence. We can get our full gas independence in four or four years. We have now taken such an anti-corruption step to significantly improve the situation of energy conservation, energy consumption reduction and renewable energy sources where we can produce our own heat. And what's more, we're going to ensure justice -- targeted assistance to those who need it through subsidy mechanisms. And what I want to stress is that subsidies are defined, and we're going to make the new grant season more comfortable, from the point of view of people getting subsidies, even if it's possible to do it electronically. This will provide an opportunity to help those in need of such support to help those with relatively low incomes. And then those who have money, pay the full market price, don't take pensioners, and those who are pensioners who don't have enough money to pay for services will pay as much as they pay today, because the state will take care of it and pay for it. All of it. And once again, one thing I want to stress is that no matter who discredits the grant system, of course, we have to fight for subsidies, we have to fight for the real income of the Ukrainians. And these incomes we can make when we're overcoming corruption, particularly in the oil and gas sector, the restored national economy and the stable macroeconomic situation. We have to ensure the stability of jobs, we have to ensure the stability of the national currency. We're starting to produce our Ukrainian national product. And we need a large-scale deregulation here, we need to bring the system in order and reform the judicial branch of government that will provide investment. This is a complex plan that was presented by the government yesterday, and I'm calling on a colleague of the national MPs today to join in his deliberations and changes to the best of those sectors that you think are necessary for us to work together with you. So once again, I want to confirm that the time has come when we have to make responsible honest decisions that are being affected, well maybe only oligarchs and corrupters, and the ordinary citizen will be protected. I'm sorry I overstepped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u49	Thank you. The shepherd Taras passes the word to Tetjana Ostrecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, we are waiting on Tuesday for the Law on Drug Deregulation, which was drafted yesterday by Parliament for your great contribution. And we thank you so much for being able to consolidate the parliamentary forces and government to work together on the Law on Drug Deregulation, which many patients are waiting for. Now essentially. The tax and customs committee heard a report by the head of the DFS on the activities of the Kiev customs office of the DFS. This is district customs, Rudchenko's boss. A number of examples have been cited when customs clearance was carried out at unreasonably low prices, customs clearance was not properly verified, customs costs were not analysed for identical or similar goods, and the necessary documents were not required to carry out mandatory customs formalities. All of these facts show that Rudchenko is not in line with his position, is abusing his authority, and is giving undue benefits to individual ZED entities. Nasirov reported that Rudchenk has been under official investigation for three months now, which he cannot possibly do without.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u51	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Rudchenk is undergoing a service investigation that Nasirov cannot complete for three months. And so I'm asking you to help Nasirov complete this service investigation and get Rudchenk out of office. This will be an illustration of the punishment of unscrupulous tax collectors. And, more than that, I ask you, the Cabinet of Ministers, as the subject of an appointment under the new State Service Act, to initiate a service investigation into the inadequacy of the DFS head of Nasirov Roman Mikhailovich and his deputy from the Bilan Tax Police. The facts are presented in a reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u53	I wanted to ask you, even though this is an hour's notice to the government: how's tax whites?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u54	Please turn on the short microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u55	Five more minutes, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, they were tax collectors, they became the former "hunters". You know that all these services work very well together. They stopped terrorizing the business, and then there were a bunch of gangs that terrorized honest importers at customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u57	Thank you. I think it's a little bit of our victory with you that the proteins have returned to the base of the dislocation. Every "white", every "white" gets its own, I can guarantee you that. It's within the power of the government. As for the district customs office of Kiev, I think the materials you have deserve a very high-quality assessment. If you don't mind, I'll be sending your materials to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office today with my accompanying address to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And with the results of this investigation, I'm willing to make any decision within our own. Under the authority of the government. I stress that the Ukrainian customs system will be updated and technically the customs will be rearmed. We have a decision and an understanding of how, from which sources we're going to do it, who doesn't block us. And we will share with you the order of Ukrainian customs. White importers will feel comfortable, gray and black will feel uncomfortable -- and this is our shared task with you. So thank you for your active participation and participation of the committee in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleague, our parliamentary lexicon is increasing. Mrs. Tetjana! Mrs. Tetjano, I ask you to prepare a handbook for the National Deputies to clarify the word "white," "ghost hunters" so that the MPs know the subject and subject of the discussion. Thank you very much. Didic conveys the word Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u59	Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon! I am addressing you with a question that is now being raised by a large number of Ukrainians. In the morning, the price of U.S.A. fuel increased by another bracelet. In the last month, I've seen it grow almost more than three bracelets. Chi. That's 10 percent of the value that was before. I can tell you that the fuel price is 45 percent VAT and excise duty and 40 percent refer to the purchase price. Another 15 percent is the cost of the AS itself. I have a question about whether I see a cartel plot or maybe you can handle it, because I'm writing a letter to the company that owns the ASA, and I'm writing to the AMC -- they're silent. And Ukrainians who can't pay that price are wondering why the government hasn't raised that question yet. It's a direct cartel plot. Almost three bracelets a month, the price went up. The dollar doesn't go up, the excise doesn't go up. Why, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. We also see that such synchronous actions may bear signs of a conspiracy to regulate these prices. Strangely, in some auto-fuelling stations, it happens almost in sync. And last Tuesday, the First Deputy Prime Minister sent a letter to the Antimonopoly Committee on Verification. I think we need to strengthen the role of the Antimonopoly Committee at all. In all matters: price issues, monopolies and everything. I plan to hold a working meeting next week with the management of the Antimonopoly Committee, independent, so that we can understand what legal tools we have for quick response to these issues, including. Because the issue of monopolies is a matter of national security and macroeconomic stability. If we don't bring up the monopolies and the different ones, there, the preferences, it's going to be hard for us, so now it's a very important question. Thank you for your questions and for your emphasis on this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, the time spent on "the hour of questions to the government" is. Sorry, colleagues, we're running out of time, and the next minute's up. I want to thank Parliament for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we thank the government, our ministers, for their fruitful work. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that there is now, according to our Rules, a reading of parliamentary requests. And I would like to immediately report that in the changes to the Rules that have been registered, we do not have to read the questions as we are today, and there will only be links to the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine where these requests will be printed. We are now operating under the terms of the current Rules, and when some say that changes to the Rules will not add anything, I stress that Friday as a working day is very difficult to do. In a new format, which is recommended, this format will actually allow for much more efficient work. And I hope that we are one of the last times that we are conducting the rule-based ritual of reading queries. But now we have to do it. And for the purpose of reading the questions, I give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. A large number of requests came in. And we may even take more than half an hour to read them. Thank you, my friends. Let us move on to reading the parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the MP's questions. And we have one question from the National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President of Ukraine. As you know, when we look at the President's questions, we need to conduct a roll-call vote first. So I'm going to read the request and ask my colleagues in the room to support this request. So we have been asked by National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President of Ukraine to remove the "no publication" fine and to repeal all of the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, and members of their families, who are calculating pensions, leaving the office of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and suspending the payment of pensions to these persons. I'm asking for support. We need to get 150 votes for this. Please vote. [[11:12:50]] For-57 57 votes, I'm afraid. I'd like to see the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I want to announce these figures because this is actually a powerful testimony to the discipline of all factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 19, "National Front" – 17, "Residential Block" – 0, "self-help" – 9, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 1, "Fathership" – 5, "Resurrection" – 0, "Will of the People" – 1. Of course, this is totally unacceptable behavior and unacceptable attitude toward the performance of their duties by representatives of all the MPs. I'm moving on to the state-of-the-art question. Groups of national deputies (Herasimova, Chernenka and others, only 61 deputies) to the Kyiv City Head on the issue of the housing situation of the six families of the Heroes of the Heavens Hundreds, who do not currently have their own housing or need to improve living conditions. Viktor Razwadowski is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of environmental legislation during the production of the Špat Children's Enterprise near the village of Villha Romanov district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski – Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomir District State Administration for Preservation from Closure in the Žitomir Region of the Golovenkov High School I-Il graduated from the Žitomir Region and the Toustjan Public Education School I-Il graduated from the Romanov Region. Vasila Petyovka and Sergey Larina – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of continuing financing the construction of a new school in the mountainous settlement of the village of Kwassy in the Zakarpatsky region, at the expense of the state budget in 2016. Alexander Abdullin is the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the violation of the right to free education of a resident of the city of Dubrovic of the Plains region of Galina Kishko, daughter of a participant in combat in the area of ATO Kizko Romana Romanović. Sergija Labazuka – to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the closure of the Lonkovetsk General Education School in the 1st grade of Volocsky district of the Hmelnicki district. Artura Martovicko is the prime minister of Ukraine for the financing of public health institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Boyka, Voropeyeva and others, only 23 National Deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on a comprehensive and objective investigation into the insolent murder of a well-known Ukrainian writer, journalist, historian Olesia Buzina; on the reasons for the delay in the investigation of the resonance case, and on the establishment and prosecution of all those involved in the abuse and misconduct of the investigation. Dmitri Andriyewski is the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and public services for the provision of official information on the state of the population's security by natural gas accounting units, which are responsible for its distribution and for the measures used to introduce full commercial natural gas accounting into the Ukrainian Law on the provision of commercial natural gas accounting. Vasila Petyovka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the Uzani National Natural Park. Alexia Poroshenko is with the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legislative solution to the problem of safeguarding the rights of patients who are in hospital care in intensive care units. Andrija Derkacha is the prime minister of Ukraine for ensuring the functioning of the market for the purchase of milk in the population. Andrija Derkača is the prime minister of Ukraine for the proper funding of a program for the rehabilitation of deaf children at the expense of cochlear implantation. Igora Lucenka is head of the Ukrainian State Migration Service for systematic violations of the rule of law and non-compliance with judicial decisions by the Ukrainian State Migration Service. Sergia Labazuka is Ukraine's minister of youth and sport on the problems of the functioning of children's sports schools in Ukraine. Igora Guza is Ukraine's Minister of Social Policy on the need to liberate Vladimir-Wollin City Employment Centre with the aim of ensuring the functioning of the Mission's Centre for Administrative Services. Igora Guza – Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the possibility of organizing and financial support for the holding of a regional chamber music festival in Novovolinsk, Volinsk Region. Mr. Vasil Janicko – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway", the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the preservation of the work of the narrow railway "Antonivka-Programme". Michael Bondar is with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting under the responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 30 November 2011 No. 1232 and the Order of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of 13 December 2004 No. 614 on powers to investigate occupational diseases in production. Visock's Sergey is to the Winnick City Head regarding the contribution of Korczak Ivan Ivanovich to the issue of land allocation for and a radical change in the situation that exists in Vinnica with the acquisition of land to ATO participants. Anatolia Kuzmenka is the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the resolution of issues concerning the restoration of lost social guarantees to former employees of the Structural Departments of the State Holding Company "Alexandriaugil" Kirovograd region. Igora Shurma is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to comply with the legal decisions of the court. Igora Shurma is Ukraine’s Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources on the inaction of officials of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, which endangers the lives and health of people living in the Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Ptashnik, Musaka and others, only 16 deputies), to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Heads of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, on the non-target use of land in the children's camp and the Sokol rest base, as well as violations of the rules on land use within the coastal protection lane. Vladislav Buhareva is the prime minister of Ukraine for the resolution of the issue of financing the only one in the district of Ohtyr district of the Suma district of the Cosmos Children's Health Institute to prevent its closure. Vladislav Buharjeva is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inadequate provision of television and radio broadcasts of Ukrainian state programmes in the territory of the Grand Duchy and other border areas of the Suma region. Olesia Long – to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets to compensate for the payment of individual categories of citizens. Victor Vuka - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the implementation of the Ukrainian law on the moratorium on the removal of green plantings on individual objects through the green economy of Kiev and the invocation of responsibility for its violation. Groups of National Deputies (Boyka, Vilkula and others, only 20 deputies) are to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on illegal and openly provocative actions by aggressive individuals during the opposition bloc's deputies on the day of Victory Day in Kiev, the establishment of organizers and perpetrators of shameful provocations, and their responsibility. Dmitri Andriyewski, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of official information on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that consumers have access to natural gas and government plans to finance the implementation of full commercial natural gas accounting. Vadim Yvchenk is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the extension of the time limit for the transfer of multi-room buildings to managers in order to preserve the rights of co-owners of housing to choose for themselves the form of house management and to prevent the appearance of fraud managers and affairs in this area. Andrija Lopushanski, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the change in the procedure for the accounting of government duties managed by the authorities of the State Migration Service of Ukraine for the creation of a new model passport for a Ukrainian citizen to travel abroad. Andrija Lopushanski is the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Finance Minister of Ukraine, on the need to reduce the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, namely: the deployment of business entities from reporting that complicates their work, and large fines lead to the cessation of their activities. The National Deputies Group (Vilkula, Galchenka and others, only 5 National Deputies) – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of adequate funding for the survival of the forestry sector of Ukraine in 2016 – increases in expenditure under the budget programme 2805060: Forest and hunting management, forest protection and protection in the forest fund" for forest management of 422 million 600,000 dollars. Sergey Larina is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the right to receive a pension and the inclusion of work experience on underground works for former workers of the Novomirgorodska mine (Novomirgorodska District of Kirovograd Region). Alexander Gerega is the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Deputy Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the return of the State-owned Hmělnické enterprise to Starokostantins of the Hmělnické Region. Alexander Gerega is acting as head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Hmelnicka district on the situation of the collapse of the Radgoslands in the Kamyanec-Podil region of the Hmelnitsk Region. Dmitry Golubov is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the laws and rights of the State Enterprise and the employees of ZAWD 410 C.A. in the performance of the State concert "Ucroprom" functions of controlling and interfering with the business's economic activities. Mikoli Kucher is a member of the Wynnick district government administration, Tulchin district council, Tulchin district government administration, on the implementation of measures to preserve the Kyrnassian sugar plant. Mikoli Kucher is a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsk Region, Tulchin Police Department of the National Police Department of the Vinnitsk Region, Nemirov Local Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsk Region, the National Police Department of the Vinnitsk Region, with regard to the provision of information on criminal conduct concerning the Kirasiv sugar plant. Mikhail Bondar is the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of the entire assets of military units A-1753, A-1523 to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. John Ribak, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of roads at the crossing points of the state border of the Russian-Ulma crossing and the Shepit-Izbor crossings in the region of Putil and the granting of international status. John Rybak is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the determination of compensation mechanisms for the cost of gas to residents of areas where natural gas is extracted. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the objective review of the cases of military personnel of Pankevitch Volodymyr Mikolaiovich and Maximov Viacheslav Alexiyovich. Anna Romanova, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the current repair of the road to the general use of the national value of R-68 Talalayevka – Ichinja – Tristanec with access to the State Historical and Cultural Reserve of Kachanyovka. Sergija Dunayeva is head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the failure of the DFS authorities in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas to implement articles 3 and 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist Operation. Taras Pastuha is the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the involvement of officials of the DNI Dniprovov district of Kiev and the Department of Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Jacob Besbach is a member of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Alexander Suprunenka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring adequate State support for charitable organizations that implement important social projects. Michael Dovbenko is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of legal acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of tourism in accordance with legislation. Gregory Timesa is the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Agricultural Inspectorate to provide information from the Ukrainian State Agriculture Inspectorate. Mr. Vasil Janicko – Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Equality State Administration for the resolution of the problem of payment of salaries to KZOC medical personnel, "Dubrovicka Central District Hospital". Jury Bublika is the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption and criminal offences committed by prosecutors and the court of the Mashov district of Poltavina V.M. and Private V.V., failing to verify their activities by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Poltavian Region and not to take appropriate action on fiscal irregularities detected by officials in the declaration of property, expenditure and financial liability. Jury Bublika is the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the misconduct of the employees of the Department of State Executive Services of the Pecher Regional Justice Authority in Kiev when deciding on the opening of executive conduct, forgivably ignoring the legal requirements of the parties to the execution and requests of the court. Anatolia Denisenka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine's view of the methodology by which gas tariffs are calculated for the population of Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a typical contract with the manager of a multi-family house for the implementation of the Ukrainian law on the specialities of the exercise of ownership in a multi-housing house. Alexander Marchenka is head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of insulin and other medicines to patients in the town of Bila Church of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka is head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the decommissioning of land and financing of the R-17 road in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Ljubomir Zubacha is the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of improper consideration of the appeals made by Ukrainian national deputies by individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina – Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure the proper energy supply of ATO sites. Vladimir Litvina, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the restoration of the full operation of the Novograd-Wallin Military Hospital in a complex with a rehabilitation centre. Sergija Vlasenka – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the clarification of the calculation of the natural gas tariff for the population of Ukraine, set at the meeting of the Government on 27 April 2016 since 1 May 2016. Sergija Vlasenka, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, is a member of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the Savchenko Hope. Vladimir Aresonkov is head of the Žitomir District Council for the preservation of the existing bed fund of the Žitomir District Psychiatric Hospital No. 2 of the Žitomir District Council in the village of Priluka, Orucki district of Žitomir district. Vladimir Aresonkova, acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the award of an additional medical subsidy to the Lugina Central District Hospital in the district of Lugini. Dmitra Špenov is a minister of education and science of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of closing schools in rural areas. Vitalia Gudzenka is the Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, director of the Department of Health of the Kyiv District State Administration for the proper provision of vaccines to maternity homes of Biloczerkowska, Voddarski, Skrirowski, Stavishtanski, Tarostian and Tetijov regions of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka is the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the gasification of the village of Burkovci in the Tetij region of Kiev. Sergija Matvienkova is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for illegal installation of household appliances for gas consumption instead of individual ones. Yurya Solovya is a member of the Territorial Administration of the DDR in the Ivano-Frankow region, Head of the Department of State in the Ivano-Frankow region, on providing some information on obtaining permits for the operation and use of machinery, machinery, woodworking equipment. Yurya Solovya is the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the financing of cultural and artistic activities at the festival of ethnic clothing and traditions "Ludinje" in the city of Kosovo of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexia Savchenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the legitimate rights and interests of the State Enterprise Coval Forest. Vitalia Barwinenka is with the finance minister of Ukraine on financing the completion of the Odessa County Children's Hospital medical building. Dmitry Golubov is the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the discharge in accordance with article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, head of the National Police of the Republic of Ukraine, Decanoidze, as a person who has citizenship of another country. Andrija Shipka is the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for preventing the breakdown of the health and rest of children in health care institutions in the summer of 2016. Andrija Shipka is the Managing Director of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons to return the contribution of the citizen Kristenko Alexi Lukić in 1931, a resident of the city of Nicopol Dnipropetrovsk. Maxima Burbak is headed by the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the legality of construction in the historic part of the city of Chernivci on 28 June, 42. Maxima Burbak is the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the financing of the City of Novodnystrovsk of Cherniewskie region's "Ukrhydroenergo" social sites. Jacob Bezbach is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets with regard to possible violations of insurance legislation. Andrija Illenka, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for information on the beating up of Kiyevrada deputies in the administrative complex of the Kyiv City Public Administration on 21 April 2016. Andrija Illenka is in charge of the head of the right district in Kiev State Administration, the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the repair of asphalt cover on Bratislava Street, 7th and 9th in the right-wing district of Kiev. Irina Sisoyenko is Ukraine’s foreign minister for foreign citizens who come to Ukraine for treatment. Romana Macola is under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Geology and Geology Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Labour Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the non-admission of violations in the field of land and environmental legislation, and for the verification of the necessary documents in the CP "Burtin Fireworks" for the purpose of further avoiding violations when the project was approved by the Land Administration for the departure of the land with a change of purpose. Romana Macola – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child by funding and purchasing a hearing aid system (SIS) for deaf children in Ukraine. Dmitra Kolesnikov – Prime Minister of Ukraine on official statements by government members and central executive heads on social networks. Alexia Ryabchin is with the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Finance, on the status of approval of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decision "On the Approval of Orders and Conditions of Provision of State Purpose Support for the Acquisition of Vocational Technical and Higher Education to Certain Categories of Citizens". Mr. John Sorish, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, on the allocation of funds to approve the construction of an underwater gas pipeline to the village of the town type Chernivka, village of Mazurovka in the Cherniewsky region of Vinnitsk Region. Alexia Lensky is the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to provide information on how and from whose direction a brilliant publication was made possible in the release of the Ukrainian Supreme Council newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" of the Ukrainian Act "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office", which took place several hours after the vote on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexia Lensky and Alexia Kirichenko are the prime minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian National Fiscal Service, the head of the National Police for the conduct of the illegal activity of the Director-General of the Union Civil Engineering and Production Union, Cimbal Aleksija Juryovich, who violates the constitutional guarantees, labour and social rights of employees, provokes his activities of increasing social abuse, stress, pardon, and the holding of numerous rallyings among employees, the use of appropriate response measures and the involvement of the results of the review of Ukraine's legislation, as well as the change of the leader with a view to normalizing the work of the company and halting illegal tools in the enterprise. Dmitra Dobrodomov is the head of Lviv City on inappropriate working conditions and disposal of dispatches at Lviv Municipal Enterprise Lvivelektrotrans. Dmitry Dobrodomov is the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, who is responsible for the responsibility of the Chief of the Vinick Regional Water Resources Management, the Head of the Vinnicko District State Administration, the Vinnicko City Head for possible violations of the actions of the Vinicko City Council in the transfer to the citizens of the land within the limits of the Vischen Lake Coastal Protection Strip in Vinnica. Groups of National Deputies (Chekiti, Melnickenka and others, only 6 deputies) – to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for the verification of corruption and the involvement of officials in the development of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have almost 30 minutes to announce requests, but there are enough of them registered. With your permission, I'll continue the time we've been given to announce the MP's requests. Is there any objection? It won't. Alexander Kodola, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for conducting a timely and objective investigation into the disappearance of missing persons in the territory of Donetsk district of the Training Centre for the Training of Young Specialists of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Savchenk Aleksandra Vasilovich. Alexander Kodola is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of hot water supply in the Chernigiv district. Oxana Sale is the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for violating the territorial legislation of the State Fiscal Service as part of the taxpayers' obligation to make an additional agreement to the Treaty on Recognition of Electronic Documents. Yurya Berezi is the head of Dniprovsky City on the implementation deadlines of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House by the Dnipropetrov City Council. Yurya Berezi is the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the establishment of the military service station B3720, Greenyuk Mikoli Volodymirovic, who carried out military service in the Aeromobile and Descent Company of the 80th Special Aeromobile Brigade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the zone of anti-terrorist operation in the Lugansk region and with which he lost contact on 5 September 2014. Maxima Savrasov is the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of construction and the use of response measures if necessary. Groups of National Deputies (Takkauka, Dustyka and others, only 29 deputies) are to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a radiotherapy complex for the Vinnicko district clinical cancer dispenser. Vladimir Parasuka is head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre on the verification of the purposeful use of certain land areas provided for the use of VAT to the Lviv Regional Fish Factory. Vladimir Parasuka is head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Lviv Region, temporarily acting as the head of the National Police Directorate in the Lviv region for the examination of the facts of illegal developments around the Javorów career in the area of the Yavorów district of Lviv. Igor Artushenko. Or we could ask for a little quieter because it's very difficult. Thank you. Igora Artushenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the conduct of an official review of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office of the Zaporozhye Region. Igora Artyushenko is head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, Minister of Finance of Ukraine with regard to the provision of tax compensation information for the added value of enterprises in the Zaporozhye region. Taras Batenka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the National Investment Project for the Development of the Lviv Roads on the road T1425 Mikolayev Komarno, which is in critical condition. Groups of National Deputies (Dubinina, Batenka and others, only 6 deputies) to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the immediate use of measures to prevent the technological disaster that might result from the pollution of the lobster rivers and the Conveyor by industrial streams of paper factories and utilities located in the basins of these rivers. Anton Kisse is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the number of mobile traffic controls and other self-propelled vehicles and machinery on the international road of M-15 Odessa-Reni. Jaroslava Dubnević is the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the payment of an adequate sum of money to the special composition of the Military Command of the City of Happiness. Jaroslava Dubnević is the Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine for the introduction of gluten-free products in Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the inaction of the central executive authorities on the protection of the rights of children affected by armed conflict. Jury Pavlovnka, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the state of the investigation of the ecological disaster on the rivers of the Baraniv region of the Khomor and Svet. Oleg Kulinić is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the Decabrists of Muraviov-Apostol to the balance of another state institution. Oleg Kulinić is the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the production of an act on the right to use the land on a permanent basis. Mikhail Golka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the possibility of restoring coal production in the Novomirgorodska mine of the Alexanderian Coal Association. Mikhail Gołka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the transfer of the Energy Corps to the factory base of the Bernardin Monastery of Bernardins, Bernardins, sorry, to the property of the territorial community of Zbaraža. Paul Rizanenka – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lifting of the ban on public officials on public criticism of the activities of public authorities, their officials and the imposition of Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 11 February 2016 No. 65 on the approval of the rules of ethical conduct of civil servants in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on State Service. Jaroslava Markevich is the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the election of the Rector of Kharkiv National University of Radioelectronics. Jaroslava Markević, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, is the city of Brovary. Vasil Nimchenk is the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of office by Minister Paul Petrenk, other officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and for the improper exercise of their duty to ensure the interests of the State of Ukraine in international judicial offices. Vasil Nimchenk is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the systematic delay in the investigation of the Dniprovov district of Kiev into the assassination attempt. Valentina Didić is the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the existence of official falsification of documents, which results in the recalculation of budgetary resources at the expense of TV "ELIT GROUP" for the capital repair of the Children's Institute No. 720 at the People's Friends' Boulevard, 20th. Sergija Rudika – Ukraine's Finance Minister for funding a European Song Competition in Ukraine - 2017. Sergija Rudika, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to increase the amount of education subsidy to finance the educational establishments of the town of Smila Cerkaske oblast. Sergey Kiwalova is the prime minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the renovation and restoration of architecture and construction sites located in the historic centre of Odessa. Sergia Kiwalova is the prime minister of Ukraine to review the amount of monthly cash assistance provided to internally displaced persons from temporarily occupied territories. Oleg Osuhovski is headed by the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the improper maintenance and repair of the M03 Kyiv-Harkiv-Dowzanski route by the Italian company Todini Kosstrucioni Generali S.P.A. Alexander Dombrovski, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Persons, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Vinnitsky region, Head of the Vinnitsky District Administration, Head of the Vinnitsky District Council, Deputy Chief of the National Police in the Vinnitsky region, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsky region on the threat of deterioration of the socio-economic status of the Vinnitsky region through the blocking of funds in the insolvent Pat Krzytik. Jury Timoshenko is the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow district for the verification of the enforcement of procedural legislation by the investigating authorities of the National Police Department in the Ivano-Frankow region in the conduct of criminal investigations. Alexia Kirichenko is the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, on the need for the establishment of a hospital district in the city of Romna Sumska district and its inclusion in the Romanian Central District Hospital, the realization of the constitutional rights of Romanians through the provision of quality medical services to primary and secondary-level residents of the city of Romna and Romani, Nedrigail, Lipodolin and Talalayev. Victoria Vojtsiecki is the head of the government of the Public Stock Exchange Society for the production and sale of hydrocarbons in 2015. Irina Suslowy is Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to preserve the historical architecture of the Crown complex in the city of Uzhgrad. John Melniczuk is the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the consideration of the unsatisfying work of individual members of the Provincial Police Department during the holding of the holding of the Special Unit. John Melniczuk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Lithuanian District Council of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Latin Regional Administration of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Vinnitsk District Administration, Head of the Vinnitsk District Council on the issue of free medical care provided by the State for children with disabilities who suffer from juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. John Vinnik is the head of Novokalovsk City on the activities of the municipal enterprises of Nova Kahovak. Roman Semenha is head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for information on the activities of the Kharkiv District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Roman Semenha is a prime minister of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to prevent the work of the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the Mikoli Lisenka Ballet. Viktor Romanyuk is with the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure an objective and complete trial of the murder of Ludmila Ohrim and the possible involvement of the officers of the P.D. Viktor Romanyuk is with the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that an objective and complete trial is conducted to dissipate the state's funds during the creation of the Cyclone-4 space missile complex. Jury Lewchenka is the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration’s Department of Public Administration for the use of urgent measures to address the grave violation of citizens’ rights by officials of the Directorate of Public Registration of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev and the facts of fraud in the territory of the institution. Jury Lewchenka is head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Commission, which regulates public markets in financial services for the protection of the rights and interests of consumers (fearers) of financial services violated by the private shareholder company EKKO. Jury Derevyanka is at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide information on the amounts of funds paid from the State Budget of Ukraine for weekly speeches by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenyuk on national channels and radio stations. Sergija Taruta and Natalija Weselova – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNB Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service – the head of the Counter-Terrorism Centre at the Ukrainian Security Service on the non-execution of the Ministry of Health of the Memorandum of Action with the First Voluntary Hospital of the Name of Mikola Pirogova. Andrija Šinkovič is the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the systematic violation of the Djgeokadastr in the Hmelnicki district with regard to the realization of the right to land by the inhabitants of the Krasiliv region of the Hmelnicki district. Andrija Šinkovič is Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelnick district government on corruption in land issues in Theofipolska. Paul Rizanenka is head of the Ukrainian Security Service, prosecutor of Ukraine. The Attorney General of Ukraine is responsible for bringing to justice the former officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Administration of the State Special Liaison and Information Service of Ukraine, the Concert Radio, Radio and Television of Ukraine, the State Broadcasting Centre, other officials involved in the conduct of a diversion that caused considerable damage to the information and defence security of the State - the destruction of RV-87 radio broadcasting facility, which had important national and defence implications. Andrija Pavelka is the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye district for the conduct of the verification of the circumstances raised in the complaint of the citizen of Oksana Antosekky and the use of appropriate response measures. Mikoli Skorika is the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of receiving State funds from co-workers at the Faculty of Justice of the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk and the direct scientific director of Baganca in the form of fees for supporting the protection of scientific work, whose writing does not take on the actual participation of the recipient of the scientific degree. Borislava Berezi is head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the construction of a sex house and the stationary treatment department in the right district of Kyiv. Borislava Berezi is under the responsibility of the head of the Righteous District in Kiev of the State Administration for the improper work of the Social Services Centre for the Family, Children, and Young People. Edward Matviyczuk is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to support creative young people from socially vulnerable families of the Kyiv district of Odessa, which is active in the "Little Dance Academy", a corresponding contribution to their creative development by the state, local self-government authorities in accordance with the National Youth Social Program 2016-2020. Edward Matviychuk is a member of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Social Policy, Ukraine’s Attorney General’s Office regarding the objective consideration of the need for an immediate response to the return of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa to Love’s doctor for non-violence in the area of family and household relations. Ruslana Demczak is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the conduct of competitive selection according to the current legislation of Ukraine. Ruslana Demczak is to the head of the Vinnick district council for the construction of the thermal power plant in the Nemirov Central District Hospital. Oleg Petrenko is head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Secretary of the RNB Ukraine for the assessment of the threat to Ukraine's energy security. Oksana Bilozer is the prime minister of Ukraine for the immediate development of a state-wide programme for the psychological and physical rehabilitation of ATO participants in eastern Ukraine and their families, as well as those who have lost loved ones in the ATO. Dear colleagues, this is where we end up reading parliamentary inquiries. I thank you once again to all the deputies who have been preparing 252 queries in the last week. And in particular, I appeal to all authorities: the central authorities, the local authorities -- to give proper answers to all parliamentary requests so that we will never receive complaints from the national deputies about the receipt of the write-offs. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes left before our traditional break. I'm so aware that we don't have enough people's deputies right now to consider the next question. And now I want to consult with you. First: we can use 5 minutes to consider the draft Decree No. 2766 is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 May 2016 on the adoption as a whole of the draft Act amending the Law on Television and Broadcasting (for the definition of European Production Broadcasts). This is a project of the People's Deputy of Sphenov. Reported by the national deputy Yuri Moroko. Is there a Yuri Moroko in the hall? Is there a reporter? There's no reporter in the room. Excuse me, Mr. Moroko, are you ready to report? Mr. Moroko? I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Moroko, please. And I suggest that we continue our morning session for 10 minutes so that we can have a look at this determination. Please, Mr. Moroko. Please, Mr. Morocco, I give the floor to his presentation of this draft order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u63	I ask the President to put the vote to a vote. There are now 50 deputies in the Hall. What kind of ruling are you talking about? You're doing this on purpose so he can't be voted on. Please put it to a rating vote, and we'll see how many people are in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that 270 deputies have registered. During the last vote, when we supported the request of the national deputy of the honourable Mr. Shuhevich to the President, it won 50 votes. But as the presiding officer, I have a formal session today, and I propose that we consider this draft regulation. Please let him know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u65	Okay. Once again, you are in grave violation of the Rules Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u66	I'm sorry, I'm in session right now. And according to the Rules, there is an order of meetings today. According to his after reading. The reading and announcing of parliamentary inquiries is under consideration for the bill. In this case, the daily bill of 2766 of the national MP of Honor Sphenov is a draft decision to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 May 2016 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft Act amending the Law on Television and Broadcasting in Ukraine. You are defined by the reporter, I give you my word. I'm following the Rules and the draft session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You're 30 people here. On 17 May, with gross violation of the Law on the Rules, Bill 2766 was adopted. We demand that this illegal decision be repealed and that a draft order be issued accordingly. How did you break the law? On 21 April, Bill 2766 had already been considered by the Supreme Council on second reading and in general. 205 people, MPs, voted in favour. That is, the Supreme Council has finally rejected the bill. But the Speaker of Parliament severely violated the law and put the previously rejected bill to the vote on 17 May. She did not have the right to vote him again. I'm not going to call on the speaker not to break the laws, I think it's useless because he's doing it consciously, deliberately and specifically. Thus, today the decree was issued on Friday, when 30 people were present. I will address the electorate and the President. The electorate must understand that the power continues to be cynical and constantly infringing laws, and the President, as a guarantor of the rule of law in the country, still has the opportunity to remedy all these violations and veto Bill 2766. The tragedy is that Bill 2766 is extremely harmful to both the television industry and the country as a whole. This law discriminates against European countries: the Netherlands, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, Greece, Luxembourg. A limit is imposed on film products from Australia, India, Brazil, South Korea, Turkey, China. Friendly Georgia, along with Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Armenia, was on the blacklist of the unfavorable. On the one hand, we ask the Netherlands to support Ukraine's association with Europe, and on the other hand, we impose a effectively embargo on its products. Where's the logic? The introduction of thoughtless restrictions on national channels and digital television have already led to TV broadcasters going on satellite television. And there, as you know, the Russian information channels dominate, it is a direct threat to Ukraine's information security. I therefore call on the President to come to the heart of the matter and veto Bill 2766. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u68	Thank you very much to the distinguished reporter. I only want to agree fully with you, Mr. Jury, that this is an unacceptable manifestation of the people's deputies today, but this applies, unfortunately, to all factions and we cannot but consider the bills because of this. Please give the floor to the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u69	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. At its meeting on 18 May, the Committee considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of 17 May 2016 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Television and Radio-communication on the definition of European Production Broadcasts (Registration No. 2766), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Spinov, Morok, Pavlenko. After considering the new submissions, the transcripts of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 21 April and 17 May 2016, the committee noted that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Television, Radio and Television (registration - 2766) had been discussed at two plenary sessions: on 21 April in the second reading, but on that day the necessary number of votes had not been received to support it, and on 17 May 2016 the morning plenary session concluded its consideration of the bill. And after the return to the vote, the bill was adopted in a second reading and in general. "For" gave their votes to 229 Ukrainian national deputies. According to part eight of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of 17 May 16 on the adoption as a whole of the draft law of the Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Television, Radiovisual and Radiovisual, registered 2766, in which it proposes that the Supreme Council decide whether to adopt or reject the proposed draft decision by way of a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record two in favour, two in favor, against those who wish to participate in the discussion, please. I'm on my right to continue our session until 12.15, please. The word is given to Musak Oleksija Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Requesting my colleague to speak to Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and above all, respected citizens of Ukraine who are watching. Of course, what's happening in this room right now, and the number of deputies present, that's just unacceptable. We're talking about Europe Day today. It's of course not European, it's of course disrespect for Ukrainian society, in general, for the institutions of parliamentaryism. And I really want to ask our people. our presidency, the head of the Supreme Council, to do some sort of rating, or signal vote or registration, just to show people who are present, who are not there, so that those people who don't go to work can at least get some moral punishment for them. Because it's really a shame. And so I think we need to react if we want to change any situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u73	Victoria Sumar of the People's Front. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I'll tell you what you're fighting for right now, the decision makers, you're fighting for Russia, for the aggressor country, for Russia, which is killing our boys in the East today, and now you're defending their interests in the Ukrainian information space. Because the law that was passed was very simple. We removed the Russian information product from the European list because it used to be in the European quota. You can imagine, we have a war with Russia, we know that Russia is a total propaganda completely directed by Putinim of the Kremlin, and we record that this is a European quota that we are obliged to show Ukrainian television channels to bring Ukraine closer to European culture. That was logic before, we brought Ukrainian legislation into line. Russia is not a European culture, Russian information space does not share the European values of freedom of speech and information society, which must ensure human rights. Russia did not commit itself to the international convention on cross - border speech and television. But your bosses, Mr. Decision-makers, have bought a lot of different concerts and entertainment in Russia to continue to make the Ukrainian people poor, so give me a chance to get people to watch all these humorous programs that aren't completely designed for development or anything European. It lies there on the canals and in order not to buy, not to produce Ukrainian TV products, so that you don't really buy a European product that should bring Ukraine closer to Europe, you're fighting for some sort of procedural nuance, and you're tired of people here, standing up for your banal Russian interest and the interest of your friends of the oligarchs who also serve the Russians. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u75	Thank you. The word is given to Moroko Yuri. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u76	I would like to draw the attention of the well-respected head of the committee of the People's Deputies of Sumar to the fact that it is now grossly and openly disincentivizing the people's deputies and voters, the telespectors and the people who listen to us. To be precise, neither in the ruling nor in the amendments that I had made to the bill was there a word of exclusion from the bill of Russian content requirements. We asked and demanded that we approach the child with reasonableness and that we, along with water, do not splash the child when European countries actually fell under those restrictions, a number of countries that were respected in the world were the Netherlands and Denmark, and Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, Greece, Luxembourg. The substance of the amendments was that. Not to make rash decisions under slogans, maybe even the right slogans, but you imposed a limit on 20, 30, 40 countries around the world. That's the point. Now, what we're talking about is the essence of consideration. You say, don't, the goal justifies the means. But if so, there are now 30 people in the hall. Andrei Vladimirović, as usual, if you are in a situation like this, you are transferring the bill to the next period of consideration, when people will be in the room and you say that it is a bill that has been previously considered and decided upon. I'm asking you not to keep breaking the rules, it's wrong, the voters see everything, they'll all appreciate it. You were standing on Maidan for what? For that. For the rule of law. You're an honest man. Why are you breaking the law so harshly?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Since I've had a call, I'll give you my word. Dear colleague, I was standing on Maidan to protect my country from the occupation of the Russian and Putinian empire. And I'm sure millions of Ukrainians were behind it, and then life confirmed that when the Russian invader went to our land, they showed their true purpose, they wanted, through the puppetic power of Yanukovich, to completely subdue and transfer the state of Ukraine to the colony. My parents had survived the Holocaust, and I knew what the weight and price of such an occupation was. And we all made Ukraine an independent state, and the invader went to war on us. And I can tell you very clearly that the melitar component in this war is important, but it's just one of the ingredients. The information war against our nation is equally important. The struggle for the minds of the people and the information war is one of the key directions of the aggression of the Russian people against Ukraine. In this bill, which was developed by the committee, which today is represented by the chairman of the Syumar Committee, all possible steps have been taken to ensure that the occupier does not have the opportunity to sow hostility, hatred, death, and blood through our Ukrainian television channels in Ukraine. And that's why I, like all patriotic MPs, voted in favour of the bill, and that's why the regulation is now in the order of the day session. And I want to remind you that yesterday I rejected IMF laws when they didn't have votes. Overruled. I didn't transfer it to the section "after the discussion," it was yesterday, and everyone saw it. And so today, as in all other days, we're going to be doing the same thing under the Rules and by the way, I don't see many representatives of your faction who could vote for the decree. We will follow the Rules and we will conclude our consideration of the matter by making a decision as we have it every day. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u78	Now we're all thinking, how did it happen that the Crimea, part of Donbass, became and don't become ours every day? The obvious betrayal of the leaders of the state, the previous defence ministers, the heads of the Security Service is clear facts. But what's very undervalued and unaware of us is the huge influence of the Russian M.I.A., the Russian culture of imperialism aggression as a "pecnasus" as a hybrid war method. Indeed, many Ukrainians in Crimea and Donbas welcomed and welcomed the occupation. So Self-Help will consistently support all the limitations of this imperialist aggressive media on Ukraine. The opposition block initiative is just unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all factions have already come forward. I'm sorry, by the way, there's already been a performance. Did all the factions take the word? Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. And now, one minute, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like to thank the speaker of the Supreme Council, Mr. Paris, for his compliance with the Rules in this case. Because according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, similar rulings have been made on what the MP proposes to cancel, adopted yesterday, the law, until it is signed, has to be put on speaker immediately. And it is in this case that the Head of the Supreme Council, unlike so many people, shows his deep respect for the present Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so thank you, Mr. Head, and I ask everyone to consider this. And we're going to the vote, as you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u81	Thank you. I see the deputies are in the hall, we're ready to make a decision. It's gone in. Well, what are you? Kodola came in, look, it's a simple victory. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that who, in support of this decision, can allow the adoption of the Television and Radio Act to be prevented. Because whoever votes in favour of the decree actually votes against the law. Therefore, I would like to request the correct orientation of all the deputies in the room. And I emphasize that the position of the committee is to determine how to vote. I'd like you to take a good look. Did everyone hear me right, guys? "For" "The Opposition Block" stands out, the Patriots speak out against it. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 May 2016 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft law amending the Law on Television and Broadcasting (as regards the definition of European Production Broadcasts) (No. 2766). Two). Whoever supports this draft regulation, please vote. Please vote. [[12:13:25]] For the five of us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Five men in favor. The decision is not taken, the order is rejected. Maybe there's some potential in the room? Maybe a return to the vote? Dear colleagues, I'd like another minute. I want to talk to the members of the Opposition Block now. I was in Lugansk in the first days when the Ukrainian Security Service was captured, and I want to tell you that with the same hatred your representatives were thrown out of there and completely corrected by foreign intelligence in this operation. Don't think you'll find your electric support there. Don't think! They hate all Ukrainian citizens, no matter what political parties or factions they belong to. The purpose of those services, by the way, there was Oleg Lazko, alone, to sow death and blood. Even those local guys, they didn't want blood, they didn't want death. Representatives of the Russian intelligence services who went there in groups deliberately provoked the opposition to start killing each other, Ukrainian citizens. And you have to make a choice for yourself and determine that we're not all enemies, because they all hate us the same way. We must together, shoulder to shoulder, protect Ukraine from the Russian invader and the aggressor who brought blood and death to our lands. I hope you heard me, I hope you understand my position. Thank you very much, dear colleagues! According to the Rules, a break is announced until 12:45 p.m. At 12:45 p.m., I'm asking you to meet me in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Groups and columns, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to let you know one more time, and I'm going to do the agitation again. The Rules, the amendments to the Rules worked with the Cox Mission, with the European Parliament, which I have proposed and registered, provide for an increase in plenary weeks, but the plenary days in mixed weeks are Tuesday and Thursday. Wednesday is a full day of committee work and Friday is a hearing. And listen to the logic here. People come from all over Ukraine for hearing, and it is easier for them to come on Friday than it is for Wednesday. And instead of Wednesday -- parliamentary hearings -- we'll do them on Friday, and on Tuesday and Thursday we'll have plenary days. Society, I can honestly tell you, it will increase our efficiency, improve our effectiveness. The shame we have every Friday will not be. It won't, because it's going to change the format itself. And so I'm asking you to read the bill, it's registered, it's four factions, and it's supported. I think the next plenary week will be delivered on the first reading. And we're going to take the format that today leads to what I and many colleagues have to be. You just have to blush in front of our citizens. [[B in m in s a l in]] By the way, yes, electronic registration is a complete fraud, it's a complete fraud, I agree with Lord Parasuk. Dear colleagues, I just held a meeting. It is good that there is the head of the Regulatory Committee, Mr. Paul. He held a meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] And there is a head, and there are members. Dear colleagues, you know that we have been asked to create a temporary commission of inquiry. According to the Law on Rules, all factions are given time to submit their members to a temporary commission of inquiry. I remind you that those deputies who are already on another interim commission of inquiry cannot participate simultaneously in the two commission of inquiry. We were able to correct all of those who were violated in the decision that was proposed. Unfortunately, not all the factions have submitted their candidates to date, and this has created some obstacles to our registration, created some obstacles, but we have agreed, we have agreed that we will leave quotas for all factions, leave quotas, and they will be able to bring their candidates in after the decision has been registered. This format is assumed, but the format is acceptable. We will act exclusively within the limits of the Rules. I hope that the regulatory committee will consider the regulation. And so far, the time taken to submit its candidates to the factions is exhausted. And so I'm confident that the Supreme Council's apparatus will look at this submission in an orderly manner. We already have all the prerequisites for the decision to be registered. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have until the end of our working day 1 hour and 10. I think this is exactly the period that we should use to make speeches by national deputies in "different." This part of our work is important. And, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the entry in "different." Everybody ready? Why don't we call the deputies from the towers? We're not calling anyone. Mr. Irina Heratschenko suggested that we call. Dear colleagues, I ask you to record the performance in "different." [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Lechchenko, stop pushing the presidency! Dear colleagues, while the recording is coming, I request you. Since this part does not foresee making decisions, I, with your permission, will give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We're moving on to different. There were 35 national deputies from the rostrum. And Mrs. Ephraim of the People's Front, please pass the word to Mr. Kodola. Welcome to the unlocked rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u84	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, just a month ago, I was addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman in the matter of hot water supply in the cities of our country. After that, Vladimir Groisman commissioned that hot water be provided for our Ukrainians. Unfortunately, today it can be noted that the Prime Minister's mission in our country is not being carried out, especially in Montenegro in all cities, there is no hot water in the cranes of our Ukrainians. In Montenegro, hot water appeared exactly a week after the Groisman’s assignment, and today it is not there either. That's why I'm going to the government again, to the Cabinet of Ministers, personally to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to work with the local authorities to make sure that the hot water supply in Ukrainian homes is restored. And the second question I'd like to pay attention to is the Ministry of Defense. In the town of Nizhina, in Chernigovishka, there is a Chinese company, a state-owned engineering company. Unfortunately, for almost a year and a half, the employees of the company have not been paid a salary, in fact they are in status. The stages of bankruptcy. The last order it made for the Ministry of Defense was more than a year ago. Regrettably, so far the Ministry of Defence has not counted for this order for nearly one and a half million dollars. Moreover, under the ban of this business, the Ministry of Defence is essentially in the field. That's why it's a question of why a state-owned enterprise that's unique in our country isn't used for full power, but the Ministry of Defense is doing this kind of work in the field. I'm paying personal attention to this topical issue by the Minister of Defense, and I'm asking him to re-establish the work of the state-owned hardware company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Vojciekhovska, Svetlana Vojciekhovska gives the floor to the National Deputy of the People's Front, Gennadia Krivoszei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, Madam Chairman, Honourable Ukraine. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Today, I would like to draw your attention to the corruption that we've been doing for almost 10 years in times like those of the Yanukovich gang. First of all, I'd like to refer to a concert like the EDAPS consortium, everyone you know about. After Majdan came in 14 years after the new leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was quite actively involved in the corruption situation and in the consortium of EDAPS. As a result, the Ministry of Internal Affairs found violations of nearly billions of money thefts every year, which was done by Sergey Chebotar’s deputy minister of the interior. In the process of exposing such corruption, the deputy minister prepared a series of materials and handed them over to the Attorney General’s Office, and he was under pressure from various sides of the world, including the deputies of the Supreme Council. This applies, in particular, to the Supreme Council member Sergey Kaplin, who has been covering and receiving the costs of the oligarchs, has been trying to stop any way possible the process of investigating the dissolution of the budget in EDAPS. In turn, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, once again, appealed to the Attorney-General's Office to have the Attorney-General's Office refer to the court in 14 years and, accordingly, to bring to justice the responsibility of those who broke the budget. Dear friends, today we have a new Attorney General and I, as a member of the People's Front faction, as co-chair of the interfractional MPs' association, am calling upon the Attorney General to raise the materials that have been submitted by Deputy Minister Sergey Chebotar to investigate them and bring the guilty to justice. At the same time, I would like to refer to Deputy Kaplin, who accused Chebotar of various corruption schemes, who spoke about it and on his Facebook page, which he spoke on television channels. I ask you to go out and execute a court decision that has fully declared Sergio Chebotara innocent, which has vindicated all the statements that have been made, which have been heard in his side, and to state it here, in this rostrum. Because that's what we're saying, in these populist terms, we're embarrassing our entire law enforcement system. There will be no future in our law enforcement system. We must be responsible for all our words. And if there's a court decision, I beg you, today, unfortunately, there's no MP in the room to come out here and say, "Yes, my words were illegal. There's a court order. Sergei Chebotar is innocent. And I ask the Attorney General's Office to take all measures and bring the guilty to justice." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Hennadia. Please, the non-fractional national MP Borislav Bereza, Kyiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u88	I want to speak to the Ukrainians. I want to go to the Chinese, I want to go to the new Henprosecutor. The situation in Kiev is very difficult, very difficult. Why? Because there is an affair that Mr. Wojciekhowski is behind. It's a man, it's a criminal who builds houses without any documents at all. And then people don't know what to do with this pyramid. How does this happen? The Luganski or Poltava court is putting such buildings into operation, but the BTI says, "No, I'm sorry." And it doesn't connect them to the power grid, to the water network or any other network. So people stay one at a time, alone with this question. For almost three years, the law enforcement agencies have been silent about this issue. The law enforcement authorities say that before Mr. Wojciekhowski had been "crossed" by someone from around Pschenka. Why aren't they touching him now? Why are these criminal cases that Wojciechowski is looking at, no person in the Henprosecutor's office has ever filed. I call on Henprocuror Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, and I call upon him to pay attention to the pyramid of Wojciekhowski, not to become the second "Elita Centrum" in Kiev, and to help the people who are deceived by the pyramid of Wojciekhowski, so that this question is not yet resolved by us, MPs, in this room. Because now Wojciechowski is being sheltered by someone from Parliament, perhaps from the government, maybe somewhere else, but he's not affected by any law enforcement government. No law enforcement agency. Yuri Vitaliovich, you can pin this scam on me. You have to do this. This is a challenge for you as the new Henprosecutor. Another person who needs your attention is Viacheslav Nepop, a person who works very long in Kievrada, is a person who was sitting in Kievrada back in Chernovetsk time, then Popova, still at Omelchenko, and now is sitting, yes, at Klick. It sits and works, but not on Ukrainians, not on China, but on itself. We've now transferred documents to the Henprosecutor's Office that indicate Mr. Nepop's corruption. Mr. Nazar Holodnicki promised to investigate the case. I ask Mr. Lucenka as Henprocuror to take under his control the crimes committed by Mr. Nepop and Mr. Wojciechowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like you to make the speech of a national deputy as a parliamentary address. That's what he was talking about. And the People's Deputy Boyko also, from the People's Front, gives the word to his colleague Gennady the Crimson. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u90	Good day again, dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. As the head of the technical regulation subcommittee today, I would like to pay attention, first of all, to what is happening to us in technical regulation. Last year, when we were fairly active in adopting technical regulation laws, and actually this year we had a new system of technical regulation in place, some of the powers related to the Ministry of Economics were transferred to the Ministry of Transport. Yet in the process of the Ministry of Economics with the master. Mr. Ivaras and Mr. Nephrodov prepared these bills, they forgot about such things as the transitional period for obtaining certificates that were obtained by car owners in the Easter system. What does that mean? This means that today, as the head of the subcommittee, I have been approached by a number of ordinary ordinary people who cannot unscramble their means of transport. There are already several thousand of them. The Ministry of Economics, by handing over the authority, was wise to do so, in fact, that those businesses and organizations, and they were about a hundred in the Ukraine market, who were involved in issuing these certificates, actually banned their letters and decrees from dealing with the issue. To date, it is not possible to blur a car without a suitable certificate. This time. The other one. Certificates that have an expiration date of 3 years actually after a literal month from when they were sold accordingly. The relevant companies have lost their respective validity. So I'd like to go to the new Ministry of Economics today, Mr. Nephrodov is working at the Ministry to do everything he can to make sure that the certificates that are necessary for the clearing of motor vehicles can continue to be used in the system and during the sweeping of cars. This is a very important moment. To this day, there are about 30 to 40 cars sweeping around. When we returned in 2015, the number of cars that were scattered was several hundred, even reaching half a thousand. It's a pretty big problem, and after literally a month and a half, we're going to face a lot of people who are going to be dissatisfied with the government's activities. Given that I, as a member of the government, support development policies and economic development in the direction of cooperation with the European Union, I think it is essential that the Cabinet of Ministers first consider the problem and do everything possible to enable the Ministry of Economics to solve the problem that it has created and enable businesses to work and clear up their cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kryvoshia. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko gives the word to the head of the Radical Party's Radical Party, Oleg Laško.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! You have just heard the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of the Parliamentary Secretariat to register the draft decree for the authorship of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Oleg Láska, Oleg Berezuk, Yulia Timoshenko, Viktor Vuk, Sergey Soboljeva on the investigation of corruption and offshore companies of the President of Ukraine and senior officials of the state. For two weeks, the Radical Party blocked this parliamentary rostrum, requiring the initiation of parliamentary investigations. Two weeks of predominant factions, such as the Peter Poroshenko Block, blocked the possibility of registering a ruling in parliament and launching a parliamentary investigation. And only today, after we brought the schedules to Parliament and made it conditional that we would announce a 24-hour blockade, has the process finally begun and the Head of Parliament – thanking him for that – has given him the commission to register the relevant draft decree on investigating the corruption of the President and his environment. In addition, an agreement has been reached with the Head of Parliament that the draft decree on investigating the corruption of the President and his environment will be considered in Parliament next plenary week on Tuesday or Wednesday. That's why we're taking down our requirement to block Parliament around the clock, because in part the result has been achieved, the ruling, I hope, is already registered in Parliament and the Radical Party faction will continue to block the rostrum in order to be able to register a temporary commission of inquiry. And our second requirement is to return the tax price for gas to the citizens. When Prime Minister Groissman tells us today that 7,000 dollars is a market price and people pay. Give citizens market wages and pensions, and then they will pay market prices for gas. And when we have one and a half thousand average pensions, two thousand average wages, and the market price for gas is 7,000 dollars for a thousand cubes, people don't have money to pay this market price for gas. Parliament is obliged to investigate the corruption of the President, the head of the National Bank, and we demand the resignation of the finance minister Daniluk, the director of three offshore companies. We think it's a shame when Parliament for two weeks refused to do its duty and investigate corruption, we won't let fat cats do the nap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u93	Thank you. We're just setting up to visit you all next week, and here's the story. Next speaker, please, Mr. Aresonkov from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u94	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, I am addressing you with a question that I consider to be extremely important, which concerns, let's say, the search for an effective public policy on the use of forest natural resources. And unfortunately, I have to say that we have huge problems in this direction today. As a senior deputy representing the police areas of our state, I am told in writing every week from the inhabitants of the territorial communities that from their point of view the number of illegal logging is increasing, and the number of transportation that exports forest materials is increasing. And we've been watching with you recently, and the public media confirms that even though we have adopted a law on a moratorium on the export of forest round the border, there are attempts to do so. Today, our forest-covered arrays are rising as a result of the lack of effective logging, and you know that this is the beginning of the fire. Today, it doesn't add confidence that there's still a distribution between the territorial state forest, the agro-industrial complex, the military and so forth. People are absolutely legitimately asking the question: Is there an effective state policy in this direction? I want to say that we welcome the first steps today of the State Agency, and the release of the director, and the election, I'm counting heavily on competitive principles for the participation of the public in the new leadership, and today the agency has finally admitted that the so-called "sanitary services" and all that has to do with it need a thorough analysis. That's why I think it's important that you work with your colleagues, and we need to support today all the efforts that will be made to require the development of effective agency actions. Today, there is increasing communication between officials, between those who work and in district offices, who work in district government and other farms with local governments, because sometimes even what is done legally, people don't have information, they don't understand what's going on. That is why we need to improve our work in this regard. I am convinced that by working together we will not allow a huge number of fire threats to occur this year, we must insist that the responsibility for these things and for illegal logging be increased. And I'm sure that's the only way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u95	Thank you, my dear fellow! The next speaker is George Logwinsky, the People's Front. He gives the word to the national deputy, Alexia Musaka. Please. After that, he is the national deputy of Šuhević, after Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u96	Good afternoon, good afternoon Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon, dear presiding lord! I'd like to raise the subject, actually, which was a lot of speculation. And what's more, some politicians took her to arms. This topic is about the so-called "increasing of salaries for the people's deputies," about being raised three times, and it was kind of a trend. First of all, I'd like to say that there was no three-time salary increase, it was just a return to the 2005 level, and 11 years ago, that was how the pay in the National Deputies was. So it wasn't a promotion, it was just a return to what was 11 years ago. This time. It's for us to record the discussion. Another story. I'm a proponent of a consistent, more than that, a bloody proponent that government officials, including the national MPs, have good financial motivation. I'll explain why, because there's low wages and there's a lot of money. Big powers are as constant as an indicator that there will always be corruption in the state. This can be traced back to the Chinese dynasty, where small wages have led administrators to great corruption, to, in principle, the present Ukrainian history. Because I want to remind you that for 20 years it was always thought that. Or even more, for 25 years, it was thought that there should be little motivation, for man must serve the state. In fact, we see what we have at present: a poor state apparatus, non-quality services, and, in fact, we are one of the poorest countries in the world. Hence, financial motivation, financial wages, and so on, must be in line with that responsibility. should meet the responsibilities and responsibilities of the national MPs in particular and of the civil servants in general. What's more, I'm going to propose in the near future, and I want to report that I'm going to increase the substantial salary of the national MPs at the same time as I increase the responsibility of the national MPs. What does that mean? People's MPs, we have to create conditions for people from business, people from science, competitive people who would be able to feel absolutely at ease at the MP's salary, and in principle, all the best people in society, not just those who already have a million, two, three, five, seven. So we can build a quality new pro-European efficient state apparatus. Thank you for your attention. Ready for further discussion and argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Alexia. Please, Honorable People's Deputy Yuri Suhević, Radical Party. And then the People's Deputy Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u98	Ukrainian people! Today, and not only today, two Ukrainian political prisoners — Nicholas Karpuk and Stanislaw Clich — have been dealt with in Grozny for a long time. What's that? The people who were abducted from Ukraine were taken there, to Russia, and now only because they are Ukrainians, sincere Ukrainians, who were active actors in public and political activities, Russia in revenge for everything: its failure in Maidan, for the loss of Ukraine -- wants revenge on these people. This is based on some testimony of some criminal criminal who was born somewhere in Siberia, lived in Crimea and was convicted several times, and then fled to Russia and was once again guilty of a serious crime, for breaking up a convicted man, now came with a warrant and says that he was once at the UNSO, the Ukrainian National Self-Defense, that he was taking part in the first and second Chechen wars. This is not true, this man has never been to Chechnya, has never fought and has never had the slightest relation to UNSO. But he becomes a witness, and on the basis of these false testimonies people are judged, they are threatened with severe punishment. Ukraine does not do enough, it does not work properly to liberate Ukrainian political prisoners. If Nadia Savchenko and also the Sunshine are sometimes referred to, some movements are being made, and perhaps only because Nadia Savchenko is our colleague – a member of the Supreme Council and a member of the Parliamentary Association of the Council of Europe – are still being said. As for other prisoners, they are even forgotten by their names, and I am here to blame for our foreign ministry, and the government as a whole. Here in Parliament we only have the support of the Radical Party faction. And this is an outrage, we have to do everything we can to stop this abuse of Ukrainians in Russia, we have to behave adequately here in Ukraine with regard to the Kremlin agents who operate here. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Heroic glory! Dear Mr. Shuhevich, thank you for drawing attention to this very important subject. At the same time, I would like to assure you that the issue of the release of prisoners who are now 12 in the prisons of the Russian Federation is under personal control of both the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And we very much hope that in the near future there will be positive news about the release of Mr. Soloshenko and Mr. Afanasyev, Gennady Afanasyev, we are also fighting for the release of Hope Savechenko. But you're right that once the sentence against Karpuk and Klich of the Patriots of Ukraine comes into effect, it is necessary to step up efforts to get them back to Ukraine. Thank you. And please, Vladimir Parasuk, let me speak. Then there's Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u100	At Mikola Carpuk tomorrow's birthday. In short, I think it will be worth going to church tomorrow and praying for all the political prisoners and for Santa who are now in this country, if you can call it a country, Russia. I'll ask if I can add 30 seconds. I'd like to talk about my district, 122 district, Yavorovščina, Zovkovščina, this is my homeland. Recently, Prime Minister Groysman Vladimir Borisovich came to one of the checkpoints in Krakow and was also head of the administration of Oleg Sinyutka. We raised the issue of roads and the Prime Minister gave the task to the head of the administration to understand the disgraceful and terrible situation of our roads. What are we talking about? May 21-22 in the village of Krechov there will be vacations, where very many visitors will come from abroad, where the clergy will come from this country. But I'm very sorry to see the roads they've been going on for the past 25 years. You know, this road is already made up of jokes that it was especially Ukraine that left the road in such a state that we could show the Germans, the Poles who were on the road during the war. So, Oleg Mikhailovich, the Prime Minister has given you an assignment, I ask you to carry it out, and at least to help people get to the Krekhov Monastery. But I also want to raise questions about other roads in Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, because these are border regions. Trucks drive into this area and then travel all over Ukraine, where there is a tremendous amount of traffic load. And, of course, it always needs repairs, support. So I want to stress on the roads that are now necessarily going to have to be made, which will make it easier to get to one or the other checkpoints, to reduce the queues. First of all, this is the Rava-Russia-Nemirov-Krakowets-Sudova Višnja, this is the Bridge-Krakowets road. There are also roads that go to the Nagachiwa checkpoint, which is the Yavorov-Nagachi road, and we need to repair it, and we also need to show the whole of Europe that we are not just doing reforms in words and doing something good for our country. So I'm going to ask Mrs. Irina to order these roads that I named.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u101	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u102	Yes. to form a parliamentary request and to have some result, not just empty words. And I want to end with a reminder. We often have executive heads, deputies, and tell them what they do on the road. First of all, roads don't make MPs, roads make firms that win tenders, and they give money to Ukrainian citizens, that is, to pay taxes. So please do not make such cheap commercials. And making roads is not an achievement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Please make the speech of the National MP as a parliamentary petition for a request. It's you, Mr. Volodymyr, you have to form them, questions. Please, National Deputy Mustafa Najem, Peter Dustenka Block. Next up is Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In recent days we have met very often with foreign politicians, diplomats. And very often the question of elections in Donetsk and Lugansk were raised in those areas that are now occupied. I'll tell you the truth, these questions that are raised are a little indignant to me as a journalist of the former, as politics, as just a citizen of Ukraine. The point is that the conditions that we are now offered are neither illegal nor completely absurd. We are now being offered elections in areas where there is no border control on the Ukrainian side. There have never been such precedents in the history of the world or in the history of the European Union. The process that we are now being offered is completely undermining any international norms on Ukraine's control over these areas. I think what we're now offered is another manipulation of international law. And I would like to remind you that no one, no country wants to give us any assurances right now that the Minsk Accords will be implemented once the elections are held. We're told that the border will be controlled after we hold the elections. But if you'll excuse me, the Minsk Accords are signed, I'll remind you once again, the former President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, Mr. Zurab and the Swiss politician. And these covenants are to be fulfilled. That's what they promise us. But I would like to remind you that the Budapest Memorandum, which was signed by the presidents of three major countries: the United States, Britain, France, has not yet been implemented. We have no guarantee that once the elections are held, someone will force Russian invaders and Russian troops to leave the territory of Donetsk, Luhansk region, to transfer this territory to Ukraine. Moreover, from the point of view of international law and Ukrainian right to vote in a situation where we don't control the territory, when we can't control security in this area, it's completely absurd. It's just dangerous to set such standards right now. What our international partners are doing is, unfortunately, threatening stability in the country. The point is, if such a law or norm is passed to Parliament, it will lead to a conflict under Parliament, which we have witnessed today. In our country under the Council, when the "Azow" battalion came, which, in fact, has given a warning today that there will be such action in the future. So I think that in this situation, you can only initiate such stories on one condition if international partners put out a concrete plan of action to implement the Minsk Agreements after the election. When we see who exactly, which country, which representatives there will provide security during the elections, after the elections, and how the Russian Federation will pay, if there is no withdrawal of troops from our territory, there will be no transfer of control, the border to us. And I think that's the point of view that my colleague Sergey Lechchenko, who also wants to come up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u106	Replica, if there is time left, after discussion. I'll give it to you in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u107	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Respectable squires! Do you remember the first thing Yanukovic did in Kiev when he came to power? On the first thing, Janukovic went and made a deal with the mob in Kiev. And the parade of illegal constructions in the capital continued. They continued to destroy green plantings, continue to destroy the historical and cultural heritage of the aunt, the sales police. What now? I'm here, Ioshenko. He came to Klitschko on Kiev. And the rest of the rest of the mob quickly ran off and settled down. Vojciekhovsky, Nepop, other colleagues, Mikitas, continue to build. Kyiv’s destruction continues, the capital, and the city. People take away their backyards, children's playgrounds. That's the way we see "cooties." And now the police are selling. Of course we don't make peace with this here, MPs. This Monday we called all the officers involved, and there was a very harsh conversation with them, and the first result was already the next day. We've been banned, we've stopped building on Mikilska Slobezka, which is said to be followed by a friend of President Prashenko, Mr. Cononenko. But you know what my colleagues and I found out. Now, I'm going to read you how much money we've called. MINREGIONBUD, MINCULT, MINECOLOGY, MINSOCPOLITICS, MINDOCPOLITICS, MINDOHODS AND CONCERNS, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Argbudinspection, Prosecutor's Office, Derzcomym. Stop! I guess that's enough. That, in fact, MPs were forced to form their own alternative, anti- Forgotten government. Is that okay? It's not normal. That's why we, the Interfractional Union for Kiev, which was actually conducting this protection on Monday, are now addressing Mr. Groissman, the head of the Cabinet of Ministers: please form an inter-ministerial working group, an inter-ministerial body to combat illegal construction, not only at Kiev level, but at the level of the entire country. And we promise you that those MPs who understand the depth of the issue with all their powers will do everything they can to make this body a success. I urge the government to unite to protect our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, the non-fractional people’s representative of Matkovsky is invited to speak. After that, Kodola Krivoschi’s national deputy passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u109	Good afternoon, Madam Chairman! Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! Bogdan Matkowski, 121st constituency, National Control. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to my district, namely the city of Borislava and the situation that took place on Chernobyl, 12. What's this all about? I'll tell you a little bit about the city of Borislav. It's a city that's one of the first, and some of the data says it's the first city in the world to start extracting oil. So today, in this very house, oil spills are coming from under the house. Imagine going out with your child on the street and instead of getting into a puddle (if it rains) you enter an oil puddle. It would be all right if it were an excess of this oil, but the wells, in fact, no longer allow this profitability, and Ukrnafta is obliged to pump them up unprofitably. And if there's a hold-up of oil, all the oil goes up to the surface. This is a very acute problem, and it is this very house that needs to be relocated to the locals, for which, on my request, no one wants to take up this issue. That is why I would like to ask the presiding officer that my statement be a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and that this issue be resolved in the future. Because in fact, it's not just the presence of oil, but it's also about these pairs that come out of the oil that comes out. It's impossible to live in a house and breathe it, and people live there today. And this is just the first push because it's summer, and the oil is now, during the summer, and there will be other oil houses coming out of the underground, and this problem is going to be all over the city, so it's an environmental catastrophe in the future for the whole city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, to the word of the People's Deputy of Kryvoshia. And then there's the National Deputy of Artemenko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Today, I would like to turn to the media once again. There's recently been some pretty popular information on the site, and it's very trusting in Ukrainian Truth about our colleague, my colleague, Dmitry Stražuk. Dear colleagues! I'd like to turn around. Ladies and gentlemen of the press, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the information on this web page, well, first of all, it's out of date and it's been playing on the Internet for a month now, and it's only made me laugh about my colleague. Secondly, I'd like you to pay attention to what's in there, and those photos are mounted and so on. Because it is reprinted, it does not carry any, it does not simply bear the truth, it simply carries false information, and it stains the honest name of my colleague, Comrade Dmitry The Watchtower. I've known Dmitri Storobuk personally for more than a year, Dmitri Storobuk, and all of us know that, the representatives of many political forces, have defended the interests of the courts quite strongly and have protected the rangers, the Automatians during the events of 2014, 2013. So I would like that information that we have today in the media to be clearly refuted. At the same time, I would like to contact the media, journalists. At present, what you are doing in the media is quite important and relevant. Thanks only to the way you explain this information, people can and Ukraine can, and the whole world can learn the truth. I'd like you to ignore the fact that some individuals or individuals, defending the interests of the oligarchs, throw such provocative statements into the media and then capture them, and put them on display for the public at large. At the same time, I would like to ask you, as far as I know, no one has taken any personal statements from Dmitri The Watchtower. I suggest, in principle, that the media also address Dmitri The Watchtower, who will confirm this information about what I said, and it will be honest, it will be proper. I've had to deal with myself once before because I was personally accused of buttoning in this room, and then the next day this information was corrected. I know what it's like to be the one who gets dirt on, and when your voters call you, and they say, "Hennady Grigorovich, how can it be?" It's not good enough for Dmitri, and it's bad enough for me, as it is for my colleague in faction, my friend, that this has become a disgraceful situation. And I'm asking everyone who's somehow involved in this issue to correct this situation and actually to show that the media, journalists working in Ukraine, are people who deserve honesty, integrity, respect, first of all, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u112	Thank you, my dear fellow! Please, Mr. Artemenko, and then the non-fractional Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u113	Honorable People of Ukraine, Honourable People’s Deputies! For over a year, our faction has been seeking the resignation of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mrs. Unfortunately, the car is there now, and the lady of honour is sitting on the street of Gruszewski. What is happening to the banking sector in Ukraine is a disgrace. We all see that in the direction of the National Bank Investments Department there is, in fact, a quarter of the country's national budget. In recent times, the NBA has been actively engaged in what eliminates, in fact, the financial market of the country. But what happened two weeks ago with the godfather bank is filling the cup of our patience. The question of the approach of the NBO is always a question, and the question is that the mammals are angry with the decision. in the 76th article of the Banking and Banking Act, the NBA actually shut down the activities of the godfather bank at a time when all the financial performance indicators showed financial stability and financial improvement, and above all, 308 thousand kyans, which is known to millions of kyans, now lost their savings because the so-called "two hundredths" won't cover all the money left in the bank's deposits. So I have an offer, and I want to include my statement as an official parliamentary request, to the National Bank, to the Attorney General, to the Financial Monitoring Committee, and I'm saying that in the situation that has arisen, it's impossible for the NBA to trust in the bank's audit. And I'm proposing to assign independent expertise, actually, to those indicators that were at the time the bank was shut down and there are, and above all, receivables, those investors that are still in the bank, they're willing to "set their financial shoulders" and give a billion dollars to the bank's statutory fund to ensure that it's still in business, not to eliminate. In order to solve this situation, it is necessary to develop expertise and to involve prominent, conscious professionals in banking activities. For example, it could be Alexander Savchenko, a man whose viewpoint is in the hands of society. Only with the results of this expertise will a decision be made on the bank’s future share. And until the end of the study, we don't make decisions about the elimination of KB "Kristátík", which, according to the U.S.S. A week ago, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Financial Activities and the Committee on Corruption, at which it was decided to transfer all documents concerning the cessation of the activities of the godfather bank to law enforcement authorities in order not only to exercise parliamentary control but also to intervene in this shameful situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Please make a statement as a request, Mr. Artemenko, it is up to the MP to form it. People's Deputy Illenko, then Dmitri Linko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u115	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin my speech, as several speakers have already done today, in order to emphasize once again that we must support all Ukrainian prisoners in the Russian Federation. And we can constantly and stress, and we should constantly stress that all these accusations are completely absurd and, as is the case with Mikola Carpuk, Stanislav Clich and many, many others, the Saucenco hope and many others who are now in prison in Russia. We need to keep talking about it, and all we can do to help them to stop their suffering. And I wanted to make a statement about what we see and even in the Ukrainian media, there are constant reports that in the European Union, namely, the European Commission is actively pursuing today's process so that it is once again an indefinite time to postpone Ukraine's visa-free regime. And you know, Ukrainian authorities have done a lot of things that Ukrainians don't like to do, say "gop," without skipping the bar as we have in Ukraine. Because he's the culprit. In fact, there have been constant accusations that those who say that, unfortunately, there is no visa-free regime in Ukraine, and you don't have to hang a medal for it and pry on it, but you have to bring it to an end, they've been accused of being, there, telling lies. So, unfortunately, even the Ambassador of Ukraine to the European Union, Mikola Tochinsky, admitted in his interview that there were such processes. And many in Europe, mostly representatives of the so-called Old Europe: Germany, France, the Netherlands -- they're asking the question that maybe you don't have to give Ukraine a visa-free regime, let's wait again for something that doesn't make sense, despite Ukraine's full commitment to the visa liberalisation plan. But this should tell us first of all that in Europe we have to concentrate our efforts and unite with our true allies, and this is the countries of the Baltic-Black Sea region, and these countries, together with us, have a similar geopolitical situation similar to that of our historical destiny, and they are our natural allies, together with which we can resist both the imperial attack of Moscow and those apathetic countries of Old Europe, who are already thinking only of their own economic interests, forgetting the lessons of the twentieth century in Europe. That is why this issue is of great importance, and instead of pressing on Ukraine today and demanding the adoption of the law on elections in occupied territories, we need to understand that we must unite with true allies and, together with them, defend our common interests and sovereignty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Linko of the Radical Party. And after that, the Honourable Deputy Golovko, is a non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u117	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainians! Parliament made a very important decision this week to rename a number of Ukrainian cities. This is the path of decommunization, we're going in the right direction, this is one of the elements of that hybrid war that we're fighting with the descendants of the Communists, the Russian Federation. To rename the city of Dnipropetrovsk in Dnipro was a very important decision. Sadly, my hometown of Kirovograd still has a name. And we hope that finally Parliament will find the necessary votes to rename. And the name "Dropivnicki" has already been agreed upon, in honor of the great theatre actor who started the Ukrainian theater, lived and worked in Kirovograd. And I hope that Kirovograd will finally get a real Ukrainian name. However, in my hometown of Kirovograd, there are more pressing and pressing problems that I would like to mention. Last week, I was on a work visit and in maternity home number two, where I was born, which is now on the verge of extinction. In Kirovgrad, 2 maternity homes, but because of this so-called medical reform, which is really just a shortening and annihilation of medicine in Ukraine, it's trying to shorten and leave only one maternity home in Kirovgrad, for 250,000 people, just one maternity home, think about who can take mothers and treat mothers. This destruction is actually our future, because it is there where our children are to be born, treated, and cared for. And I'm still asking the city authorities today to find the necessary 9 million dollars, a total of 9 million dollars to finance this medical facility. As well as funding medical facilities in Poznanz, where the railway hospital is actually closing down today, connecting with another hospital. I mean, across Ukraine, all over my hometown, there's destruction and closure of medical centers, that's unacceptable. The Radical Party takes the principle against closing hospitals, and we advocate that Ukrainians have the right to medical care. The second problem I'm constantly dealing with in this rostrum is the third month already in the central square of Kyrovgrad, living in two dormitories, demanding that they be given the right to privatize their dormitories. Parliament has passed a bill that allows us to do this and today we have learned that the President has promised this bill, which would allow about 500,000 Ukrainian citizens who live in hostels to have ownership of their rooms, where they have lived for more than 10 years. I demand Parliament, and the Radical Party is calling on Parliament to overcome the President's veto and allow Ukrainians to have their housing, which they have acquired over the years, working in factories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Golovko, Ternopolska is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u119	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to draw attention to the situation that, unfortunately, we have a large number of KGB agencies today, a large agency of the Russian Federation that is represented in the authorities that are deliberately destroying our state from the inside. And that's why I wanted to highlight this case that we have. It came to me from the patriotic community of Melitopol, Zaporozhye, that their mayor, Minko Sergey Anatoliyevich, was an obvious separatist who supported the Russian Federation's actions, which in the election called for the signing of treaties with the Customs Union, with the Russian Federation. Now he's taking an anti-Ukrainian position and he's the city head of Melitopol. And so I'd like to demonstrate that you turn on the video, show how it stands for the interests of not Ukraine, but Russia, and the anti-state position. Please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u120	Oleg Valeriyovich, I mean, these are such infamous factors that today the city head of Melitopol, who is clearly a separatist, and we see total disregard and silence from law enforcement. Neither the Security Service, nor the Gretzak, nor the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- nobody responds in any way. I urge you to file a criminal case, figure it out, and really bring this person to justice. Today, we stand up for every Ukrainian land. Today, our soldiers die in the east, protecting Ukraine, and its insides are being undermined by just such separatists. So today, I urge the law enforcement authorities to intervene immediately in that situation, to understand and to bring him to justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u121	Please, as a member of parliament's request to form a statement by the national deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your microphone's not working. The MP's address, as a deputy's address, please form a statement by the national MP, Michael Golovk. The postfaction national deputy Yuri Derevyanko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u122	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The Will Party is firmly opposed to privatizing strategic state-owned enterprises now. It's a cynical attempt to dismember the remains of the state's best property. "Will" is of the opinion that it is not possible to sell strategic enterprises right now for no price during war and during a deep economic crisis. Under such circumstances, this state property can be purchased only by oligarchs who are involved in corrupt schemes or by people who are close to power. We're assuming that the process of privatization in Ukrainian looked something like this: Colomoyski, Ahmatov, Firtash, Ljowczyn, along with Yatsenuk, Prashenko was put together, sat at the table, made a list, passed this list to the government, and as a result we got Bill 4536, and as a result, some people put an eye on Ukrcspirt, someone on Artemcel, someone else on 372 companies from the agro-industry complex, another 17 from the transport sector, among which, I emphasize, there are sea ports. What do the oligarchs want to buy? Crossspirt, for example. This is a monopoly enterprise in the ethyl alcohol market, which should undoubtedly be exclusively profitable. And today, if the state manages this enterprise effectively, it has extra weights to collect excise taxes on alcohol, with a monopoly on government property. Next. Odessa Airport. The Cabin intends to start selling it with $500 million, even though it has been exhibited for a billion or more prices, and it is obvious that either one of the Jacinyuk or Dusty’s surroundings will buy it. The Free Party condemns the fact that the new democratic government of Groysman immediately after a two-fold increase in gas prices immediately went to privatizing the most strategic objects: seaports, Odeski portovy, Centrenerego, Ukrispirt. Why can't President Poroshenko sell his own asset for two years today? Because there's no buyer, there's no market, there's no fair price. Because today the highest authorities and the President, including the sales support. Why does he support the sale of all these strategic state-owned enterprises, and why does he support the sale of Centrenergo and Easter and everyone else? And priceless, that's the main thing. The Will Party calls for a tough moratorium on sales before the war ends. We demand that after the moratorium is completed, we sell exclusively through the IRA through world markets procedures through the IRO and through audits, through the placing of these packages on the market, through absolutely transparent procedures. If the assets that today have real value to realize at least two years after the recovery of the economy, after the end of the war, there's a chance that these enterprises will be sold at 2, at 3, at 4 times more. Today, the authorities want to sell it for nothing, to settle with the oligarchs or to buy it themselves, thus carrying out anti - Ukrainian policies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, the national MP Meparishvili gives the word to the national deputy of Krivoshi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you. A national deputy may, in accordance with the Rules, give the floor to any fellow member of the People's Parliament. Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, I am today. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, dear fellows, no. First of all, I'd like to. While I was speaking on the subject of Dmitri Storobuk, I would like now to thank the "Ukrainen Truth" who, at the time of my speech, recanted immediately and took the relevant information on the phone and talked to Dmitri Storobuk. I would like to thank "Ukraine's Truth" and other media outlets who have supported information about the denial of what was said in the media about our colleague from the People's Front. Thank you very much. I am glad that we have quite an active response to the media and have a constructive approach to relevant information. At the same time, I would like to point out that yes, I hope, on my behalf, the Attorney General's Office will work, as far as EDAPS is concerned, regarding the applications made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the same time, I would like to pay attention to this and I would like to hope that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Kyiv District Administration will work, in particular, with regard to the funds that need to be allocated for the repair work of quite urgent and mandatory work in the Boguslav region, in the town of Boguslav to repair the bridge right across the Ross River. The question is quite pressing: For more than 30 years, this city has not been repaired, and no capital repairs have been done except for the replacement of asphalt. And so far, according to fire inspections, it's in neglected condition and it needs capital repairs. Today, unfortunately, Alexander Onishchenko, a senior deputy in this district, is not working because only he, as a majority MP, can make, manifest, change and offer social and economic development in order to have these funds allocated. So I'd like to go back to the Cabinet of Ministers and look at the head of the district administration and the district council to find the opportunity to allocate the unfortunate 9 million dollars. Part of the money is additionally ready to be provided by the town, Boguslav City Council. The total cost of repairs for today. It's still being set up, but it's the kind of money that ordinary, simple people urgently need. Dear friends! If there is, if you'll excuse the word "hole in the asphalt," then we can get to the ground as much as possible. And if there is no bridge, man, God forbid, can harm his health, and God will not let him die. Therefore, these are very important strategic objects – bridges that need priority, when carrying out appropriate socio-economic development programmes. At the same time, I would like to focus my attention on the territorial communities that are joining together today and want to start working in the Boguslav district of Kiev. This is the Medwina Territorial Community, and there have been repeated meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u125	Thank you. You know, your fellow officers, the national deputy Kirsch does not pass the word to the national deputy of Krivoshea. So I invite him to the rostrum with joy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u126	Did you think the fifth time was going to happen? No, it won't. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest crime that can only be in the field of agriculture is the non-payment of wages. This is what the Kharkiv Air Force is doing, the debt is already more than 60 million dollars, and there is no internship with the Pension Fund. So people don't have any rights, they can't have jobs elsewhere, because they're not formally free, they just don't get, they don't get, they don't get, they don't get, they've been paid since 2014. I asked questions and the prosecution, there was a criminal case there, and to the enterprise, the company says that only then would it pay the wages when the money is available to everyone at the same time. It's just abuse of employees, because it doesn't pay off, in general, nothing, it doesn't count as a job. So people don't have any rights, the business doesn't do anything. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Please also inform us at what stage is there now a criminal case regarding the non-payment of salaries to airlines? And I want to end with a whole other subject, and it's also about Hark, but it's about football. The Kharkiv Metalist team, which is almost 100 years old, is now not certified, is losing professional status, can disappear from the football map of Ukraine. Kharkiv is urgently looking for sponsors for the only football team, the second largest city in the country, the metal player is disappearing, we're looking for sponsors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor the non-fractional national MP Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u128	Alexander Marchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 90 constituency, Bila Church. Today many, colleagues, you've all talked about winning the war in the East, talking about information wars, but there's an artificial war that the state is fighting with its own people -- it's a communal war. At a meeting that took place on Wednesday in the Committee on Municipal Economy, we discussed the issue that the new Prime Minister's government should be mobilised today, at least on the issue of the Prime Minister's Consolidation and Organizing the work of the Ministry -- the benefits of 4-5 months are delayed, of the Mineconomy, when it raises gas, of the Minfinans, which does not pay financial subsidies to utilities, that is, the enterprise is also a water channel. Today, there is a collapse: utilities, hot water supplies become seasonal, and today these businesses, which suffer from the failure to return money by the state, are on the verge of bankruptcy. And today I am addressing the Prime Minister, Vice-Prime Minister Zubko: Your Honor, look, not only can our community afford to buy these services, but you've only raised the people's minimum material support by 5 percent and doubled. And the Prime Minister will report an economically sound price. I'm pointing out, give the Ukrainians the opportunity to have utility services as a service as a commodity. I wanted to continue the talk, but I promised my colleague Eugene Ribczynski that I would give him my word, but in general, colleagues, I would like you to note that we should respond to the challenges that the new government is giving in the socio-economic direction today. And I'm paying attention to that social problem that we have today, it's still on the road. Very much said, the Prime Minister's visit took place on the road. But thank you all for not having passed today are not supported by the daily Bills 4660, 4661, which approved the terms of the contests, the terms of the permits. For today Ukrainian roads must be built by Ukrainians, and roads exist in the state to build. And those who want to live on a corrupt component, on granting permits, have nothing to do with caring for Ukrainian roads. Today the authorities, the executive structures have to take care of the road traffic rules for all, because 2.5 million army of motorists are the loneliest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. I continue my morning session for 15 minutes so that all the disciplined national deputies who could sign up for the performance could do so. And we're just going through our list of records. Soon there will be Mr. Fishchinsky's time. I invite the people’s deputy Popov of the Radical Party to give the floor to the national deputy Skurativski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u130	Dear voters! Parliamentary hearings were held yesterday for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament on the status of fighting corruption. What can be the main conclusion? Sadly, in the fight against corruption, corruption prevails. The Ukrainian Parliament has created new anti-corruption bodies and has placed great expectations on them that they will finally really fight corruption. The Ukrainian Parliament has given all possible support to these bodies. For example, the budget of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau for a year is nearly half a billion dollars, and wages range from 20,000 to 80,000 dollars a month. We took the heads of all bodies from independent competitions, we gave them all the possibilities of independent work. However, are they working hard enough? For two months now, the whole world has been shaken by an offshore scandal. The seniors of all the countries that have been involved in these offshore scandals either resigned or are being investigated, are being removed from office, and only in Ukraine do the authorities try to pretend that nothing is happening, that if officials have offshores, if millions and billions of dollars of funds are being put in there, it is normal. For two weeks, the Radical Party faction blocked this rostrum, requiring the creation of a temporary special investigation commission in the Supreme Council, which would have the right to question even the President of Ukraine, to question all seniors, whether this information was true, what they were doing to close it down, and for those in possession of the crime to be investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. It is only today that the ruling is finally registered, the draft decree for the formation of such a temporary commission of inquiry, but a number of names that have been called, are the highest officials of the state, is the consequence of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and they must do so, this is the requirement of the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the requirement of Ukrainian society. It is enough to drive only in foreign travel and to speak in front of the media. We created these organs, we gave them taxpayers' money. We took these funds from social programs so they could catch a big fish. We're reading a report from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and in a year, we caught three small prosecutors, three of whom stole $10,000 -- that's not enough. Look at the journalists' investigation, look at the discovery articles, we have a lot more corruption problems, we have the highest officials involved, we have to question them, we have to question them. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau has every opportunity and Parliament will exercise maximum control over their activities. If the newly created organs don't work, if they don't become independent, then I'll remind you that in this room, we've already got three Attorneys Generals who have been fighting corruption badly. Of course, taking down the director of the NABA is more difficult, but with regard to funding for the following year, Parliament will think twice before giving back half a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't see Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk in the session room anymore. The national deputy of Krivoshea has already stepped out of the rostrum. Next up is Fishy Eugene, Nardo's Will, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u132	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable presiding, distinguished national deputies, those who remain in the hall! I would like to say a very important thing because the information space in Ukraine is completely filled with Russian-speaking products, Russian-speaking shows, but most of all, it's annoying that no foreigner can hear Ukrainian music. They come here, including our FM radio stations, and they don't hear any Ukrainian songs. And they say, "And you don't have your own show, you don't have your own show business, you don't have your own song." Well, in France, for example, if we were playing English all the time, in Turkey we would be spinning Arabic, in Poland we would be singing German for the New Year, and in China we would be doing Japanese, but these countries wouldn't just exist on the map of the planet, would they? In Ukraine there was and continues the expansion of Russian-speaking pops. While we constantly say that we are going to a civilized world, we are confident that we are forming a nation, at this time every New Year everyone is eating lead and watching Russian programs and shows. We know that, don't we? And what do I really want to say? What if the Jews that Moses led through the wilderness sang Egyptian songs there, they would still be slaves. And Ukrainians listen to Russian, speak Russian, and they actually watch those Russian shows that we actually talked about. If we are unable to translate into the language of our people, our people will remain slaves to the people they speak. If one of the deputies of the next sessional week doesn't want to vote in favour of Bill No. 38222: concerning the introduction of quotas for Ukrainian music at last, then he was, is, and will remain a slave and an accelerant of the Russian Empire. Ukraine is Ukrainian music. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Please come to the floor. Arthur Gerasimov gives the word to the National MP Musia, correct? Replica, I remember the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u134	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I would like to draw your attention to the work of the Health Committee, which has finally assumed responsibility, unlike most committees, for reforming and building a new national health system in Ukraine. Thank God, our joint efforts, all the deputies of all factions, for which a great thanks to every faction of the Ukrainian Parliament: both the opposition and the opposition bloc, and the Lachka bloc, and the Fatherland, and the Will of the People, and the Rebirth were no factions of the Ukrainian Parliament that would not support the day-to-day implementation of the five basic conceptual laws on which the future health system would be based. And I think this is the kind of unity around medicine that has to spread to the activities of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. I very much ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to take as an example and as an obligation, perhaps or as an offer to accept – every Thursday or Tuesday, to make at least 18 of those bills that have already been approved by the Health Committee, even though by 2 and by the end of our session by September we will finally be able to propose to the Ukrainian society what it expects for 25 years. After all the health and health surveys, however, concern the Ukrainians first, not politics, not even the issue of war. Therefore, it is very important to introduce, first of all, the most important concept bill of 2409, which is called the Principles of Public Health Policy. It is practically the bill that will form the entire future health system of Ukraine. And yet another very important bill, which goes second in importance and which writes at last how the future health system will work, is Bill 4456, called "The Organization of Medical Services in Ukraine." We finally found consensus together by the committee, found common ground to agree on this article 49, which everyone mentions is free of charge in Ukraine. We all realize that there can be nothing free, someone has to pay. Finally, comparing 49 articles with 95 articles, where all social expenditures are provided at the expense of the state budget, opens the way for us to create a state-owned purchasing agency that will become a prototype for mandatory government-social health insurance in Ukraine. So once again, I urge everyone to unite around medical reform and around the decisions of our committee. And offer, and show an example that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u135	Thank you. I remind you that in 14 hours, I continued my session for 15 minutes. Now, according to the record list, we have a performance by the National MP of Artemenko. I understand you've already spoken, National MP Artemenko. A radical party. All right, you don't have anyone you want? Then I give my word to the National Deputy Shurma of the Opposition Block. Have you had a performance now? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u136	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. My appeal today to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on issues and problems that concern all citizens of Ukraine, regardless of age, regardless of religion, political preferences. It is a matter of health. In 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine amended Ukraine's legislation to introduce a procedure for the procurement of medicines through international organizations. The intentions were good, and most importantly, the hope of avoiding corruption and abuse by officials in purchasing, which was to give an opportunity to make effective use of the public budget, to reduce the cost of medicines, medicines and to increase the volume of purchases for the same financial resources. What do we have today? In December 2015, the Ministry of Health listed two billion 200 million dollars for foreign purchases. To this day, all are unknown even the actual terms of delivery of medical supplies according to government programs. Those supplies that started, they're scarce, they're enough. The exact extent to which they have reached, and the terms, today, are even difficult to establish. Today, there is a question: The drugs that were to be treated in 2015 amounted to about 300 million from various estimates. There are questions to those listed.: where 2 billion dollars were distributed. Today, 2016. The money that has now gone abroad is unverified, and the information has not even been used. They don't even buy these drugs. I'm not talking about the fact that we don't have any drugs. I invite everyone to go to any pharmacy. Where did the drugs come from? Promise price? As far as quality is concerned. We were told that the quality of their drugs was much better abroad. The paradox is that three structures — UNICEF, UNPRO and Crown — are buying medicine from Ukrainian drug manufacturers. So what's going on? Ukraine does not buy its businesses without trusting them, but foreign intermediate structures do. What is more, today is the practice of twisting the hands of our producers who have not received the money, but put the medicine in place. I'm going to the Ukrainian Security Service one more time, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the Cabinet of Ministers, please find out where 2 billion dollars have been distributed. I also address those who need to understand that today the treatment of all Ukrainian citizens rests with their parents. Today there is a moral side and a medical profession that, unfortunately, should be responsible for not being able to treat their patients fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u137	Thank you. This is the final speech, please, of the national deputy of Halasyuk. Then there's the People's Deputy Lechchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u138	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear Mrs. Irina! Dear colleagues! I just came from a scientific conference where we discussed the radical party's proposed strategy for the development of Ukraine's banking sector. Because what's happening today is the destruction of Ukraine's banking system, it's the destruction of Ukraine's National Bank of the Ukrainian Industry, it's the weakening of the bracelet, it's the poverty of Ukrainian citizens. It can't go on like this. I want to say that the bankers that were at the conference today are the same. I would like to congratulate all the bank employees of Ukraine on a professional holiday. And experts and national MPs, they are unanimous in the notion that continuing today's disgraceful politics by Gontarev is not possible. We need a degonization of the economy today, a degonization of Ukraine's banking system. Look at what's going on. No country in the world got out of its knees, developed its economy and industry, without giving available credit to real producers, producers, not speculators, not offshores, but those who produce real products, who create jobs, who pay taxes. What is happening in Ukraine? If, back in 2007, the financial depth of the economy, the ratio of loans to GDP was almost 80 percent, today it's 50 percent. I mean, Gonnaareva is drying up Ukraine's financial system, draining the Ukrainian industry's finances. In countries like Korea, Singapore, which were making an economic leap, this rate is 100 percent and above, and we have 50 percent. What happens as a result? Entrepreneurs complain. We analyzed the statistics. Today, capital investments, or someone is investing in the development of a new business, are scarce. And of these, only 15 percent were funded yesterday at the expense of loans, and now it's funded by 7. So today entrepreneurs don't have any money to invest in the development of production, because loans cost 30 to 35 percent. Tell me, how can we develop an economy in these circumstances? Which strategies 2020 or some other can be talked about when loans abroad are taken below 2 percent of the year-olds, and then they are marketed below 15 percent in a dollar or below 35 percent in a bracelet. But this shameful practice must be changed. The Radical Party faction therefore proposed a package of bills, which included the creation of an export credit agency for cheaper credit, insurance and export contracts, helping Ukrainian producers to go to foreign markets. This is the creation of a Ukrainian development bank like that in all the powerful countries of the world, and this is certainly radical monetary liberalisation. If we can't, unfortunately, take down 20 deputies today, the Radical Party faction, we have to adopt laws that will take away the important influence that it has on the Ukrainian industry and the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u139	Please, 1 minute for Leschenko's line, mentioned in the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u140	Thank you. I have a line, but I wanted to say something else. Unfortunately, this week, hearings were anticorruption in Parliament and there were few deputies. At these hearings were the stars of Ukrainian investigative journalism, the Schemes program, the Tracking Program, the Our Money program -- they were talking, they were real people who were fighting corruption much more effectively than the law enforcement agencies. And yesterday on the air -- I'm talking to all the viewers and listeners -- on the air of the First National Program was the Scheme, where we talked about creating a "watching institute," about how our colleague Granowski is meeting with Judge Wolf, how he's meeting with businessmen, how they decide (in restaurants) schemes that will act, how to make illegal decisions, how to deal with illegal wealth in Ukrainian politics. Please find all the viewers on the Internet and see this program. But besides, to see if we're like deputies, we're going to go to the NAB to see what was the basis for these meetings, and if there's no violation and pressure on the judges on the part of the deputies, are there not the same "watchers" that we're talking about and whether there's destruction?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate to wish for a fruitful work in our districts. The next meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held on Monday, May 30, at 11 a.m., the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held on Tuesday, May 31st, at 10 a.m. We are happy that the Radical Party will spend the night at home, not on schedules. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
