ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. The registration will take place in a minute. Colleagues ready for registration? Dear colleagues! Please register. Please register. [[10:04:52]] 348 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Roman Sergiyovich Romanyuk, 55 years old. Let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Thank you. And also, my fellow Members, I would like to point out to you that last week, a delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was able to carry out a very difficult and difficult task. The two major factions condemned Russia’s return to Paris. And the positions of the pro-Russian politicians were greatly shaken. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that became a major new step in the international recognition of Russian aggression. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has set an example of how to act in international politics. When delegates from different factions acted from different political forces as one team. This once again demonstrated that there is unity in power. When we are alone, we win. Let us thank the group and thank our parliamentary delegation in South Africa together. Dear colleagues! We welcome them and thank them. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. And that's why I'm asking the factions and groups to record the performance. Please record. From the Radical Party, Kirichenko Aleksei renders the word Lyashko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, fellow countrymen! Last night was the International Day of Poverty. According to surveys by the Ukrainian Institute of Demographics, nearly 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens consider themselves poor and their income is lower than their living minimum. That's what Parliament, and the government, and the President, must concentrate on overcoming poverty, raising Ukrainian income, creating new jobs, increasing wages and pensions. And it is these bills that the Radical Party is proposing to solve the pressing problems of our country. First. On October 15, the heating season began. Unfortunately, it didn't start everywhere. In particular, Kuprienko reported that there was no debt at the bottom of the gas, and in many other cities in Ukraine. Many Ukrainians are waiting for payment of municipal services with fear like a bullet with cyanist potassium. Why? Because government decisions have doubled tariffs on gas, on utilities, on water, on heating, on wages, and on pensions. That's why the Radical Party faction continues to demand in court, the next trial scheduled for October 21st, we demand the government's decision to increase gas prices, to increase the cost of residential services. We demand that the government return to the social standard of gas consumption in the heating season so that people pay twice as much for gas as they do today. We're asking the budget next year to predict energy-generating costs, in exchange for boilers, windows, doors in Ukrainian citizens' homes, in peasants, because today people don't have energy-generating resources. A very important issue in terms of overcoming poverty is social. So the Radical Party faction proposed a bill to index Ukrainian citizens' pensions so that they would not be below the minimum of living and to index them on the inflation index. Another question is the cost of drugs. Today, pensioners enter a pharmacy like a museum and cannot afford to buy drugs. So we've registered a bill for Ukrainian pensioners to receive, free of charge every month, blood pressure, headache, diabetes, other diseases. And so that we can save the lives of Ukrainian pensioners. Questions of the earth. Last week, Parliament voted on our bill to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. But that's not enough, they're taking the land from farmers today. Therefore, the Radical Party has registered a draft decree to hold parliamentary hearings to protect against the raiders of Ukrainian peasants. We also require the government in the budget next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u4	Excuse me? Repaying taxes to special farmers, re-establishing state support programs for the livestock sector, plantations, creating jobs for young people in rural areas, and restoring the social sphere. Only a set of measures, on the one hand, are the social bills proposed by the Radical Party, on the other hand, bills aimed at raising wages and pensions, creating jobs for Ukrainians, allowing us to make our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Vasil Alexanderovich walked.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u6	Good day to you all! Vasily Gulyaev's Rebirth Party. Dear colleagues, in my statement today, I would like to ask a few questions about each Ukrainian to some extent. First, the Rebirth Party is concerned about banking market activities; today this has become the possible mismanagement of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Gontarevo. During its two-year rule, 80 Ukrainian banks were closed. The Rebirth Party Group supports our colleagues in dismissing the head of the National Bank of Valeria Gontarevo. Moreover, the Rebirth Party submitted a draft decree in 2014, in November, and we ask that it be considered urgently. The Rebirth Party also works actively on the 2017 budget, so we propose to introduce a minimum subsistence minimum of 2,973 bracelets by 2017 and a minimum wage of 3,080 bracelets. We are also saying that, to date, Ukraine's budget wants to put all its problems on the ground, so we want to transfer, to date, the financing of schools, the financing of hospitals, the payment of technical staff, sanatorium and all the benefits. Only the transfer of utilities, hospitals and schools will cost local budgets of 17 billion grevens. The Rebirth Party Group believes that this will severely delay the decentralization of power in our country. There is also another topic that concerns many Ukrainians: the IMF requires an increase in the retirement age in Ukraine. The Rebirth Party is categorically opposed to increasing the retirement age of Ukrainians because, to date, there are very few people living until retirement in Ukraine, and if we increase the retirement age today, then very few will ever live to retire. Once again, I say that the MP's Rebirth Party has been categorically opposed to increasing the retirement age of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alexander Vilkula, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! The government reports on the start of the heating season, and people see cold batteries and are afraid to freeze in their homes because the heat is not everywhere. So far unconfirmed limits on gas for the vast number of cities, most nodules actually don't work in the country, and in gas shelters, instead of the minimum required 17 billion cubic metres of gas, there are only 14.7 billion cubes. Once again, we hope only for the warm weather of winter. People are afraid of payment for a utility station that will be here in a month. We demand that the daily Parliamentary Bills of the Opposition Block 2342 and 2347 be put into order, which we have submitted in March 2015 on reducing tariffs and establishing a moratorium on raising them, and this is a matter of priority, enough to bully people. I will point out that two more strategic issues need to be considered this week. First of all, it's the work of the coal industry. By November 1st, TEC and TES should have almost 3 million tons of coal, which is now one and a half times smaller. The government has to report to Parliament on the situation in the field, since the debt of wages for miners amounts to 355 million dollars. And one last question. How much of this power can attract foreign workers? As a result of the work done by the minister of health, Georgian, Kvetashvili, in Ukraine, the world’s worst vaccination rate, the data was published by the UN two weeks ago. Only a third of children are vaccinated with measles, 10 percent of hepatitis B and only 3 percent of diphtheria and pertussis. The result of the work of the Lithuanian Abromavius as Minister of Economic Development. There's more than $6 billion in investment outflows and a colossal decline in the economy. Now we see the Polish rocker Balchun, who led the Crucifixion, in an equal place, destroying the industry. In view of the fact that diesel has not been purchased at the proper time and that wagons are not supplied, the Ukrainian industry cannot place its products in the same Europe. We say we need to find new markets, but Balchun is destroying existing markets. We are initiating in Parliament the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the verification and assessment of the state of affairs that has been established on the Crossroads. It may be necessary to ask about the replacement of the management of the enterprise, so far this rocker has not achieved domestic industrialism, and because of its negligence, dozens of enterprises have not been closed up in cities such as Curve Rig, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporozhye, Mariupol and others. We need to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u10	We demand to consider the bills proposed by the opposition. We need to get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Who else from the political forces? Please "will of the people," the national deputy of Bandurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! On October 14th, on the roof of the Holy Virgin, the entire Ukrainian people celebrated the Day of Protector of Homeland, and much is now being done to strengthen the security of our country. But the task of the state and the state men who are certainly here is not only to protect borders, but also to protect our people from poverty, poverty, in the end. The tools of protection are social and economic policies in which the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens is the priority. In the face of a crisis, both parliament and the government must consolidate efforts and ensure the protection of the population, for which the MP group "The Will of the People" proposes the following. Increase the minimum wage, and then make the index at least twice what the government has offered today, not less than 20 percent. This not only partially offsets the inflation rate of 8 percent for 2017, but also the loss of our citizens from hyperinflation in the last two years, almost 90 percent. How can this be done within the deficit of three percent of GDP? We believe that additional sources of coverage should be: first, optimizing the cost of maintaining all state institutions, including the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The second, temporary freezing of any capital expenditure in the public sector of the economy, excluding those that are critical to Ukraine's national security. The third is the immediate increase in the repatriation tax, bringing out five percent of the government’s proposed capital, at least twice as much as ten percent. All of this together will create the necessary fiscal space to increase social protection for the population. The People's will MP also considers it necessary to review the tax conditions of the critical sectors of the economy, first and foremost, of the Ukrainian agricultural sector. The change in security has led not only to the deterioration of business conditions today. But there's a lot. Today, part of this business is in the shadows. We propose to cancel all taxes paid by agricultural enterprises and move to one single tax from one cadastral hectare of rollers to take into account natural climate conditions. This approach was applied in developing countries, particularly Brazil. And it will allow us not only to lower tax pressure on conscientious payers but also to engage in paying the taxes of those who are now in the shadows. Thus, those who lose will not. Clearly, such reform should be reinforced by the fundamental changes in the holding system of the Djorgheokadastr, which is ineffective in producing corruption. We believe that the 5 billion budgeted to support farmers should be replaced to support everyone without the exception of agricultural producers, with the allocation of these costs according to the size of the land being processed. So supporting the agrarian sector and increasing the population's capacity to pay will give impetus to economic growth. A wise economic policy should become a general strategy, a component of the overall strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u14	The center of which should be a Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u16	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We're actually going to have a pretty unforgivable day today. And actually a pretty unforgivable day is going to be that there are enough issues today that relate to the legislative regulation of the national security and defence sector. Indeed, it is a day that we have waited long enough for because there are so many questions. And most of the questions were raised in our soldiers, so many questions were raised in the families of our soldiers, in our relatives, in our loved ones. And I'd like to make these hopes clear to some extent today, so I want to read out our agenda so that we can understand whether we are reforming today for the sake of a soldier, whether we are having a simple and simple change today, which is probably not acceptable today for the country that is fighting. And to see some reform in these changes, I think, well, he can only see, probably blind. Today we're going to discuss the issue of retirement, today we're going to discuss the issue of reducing the pay of the defendants, because they're not at war with the contractors today, we're going to be looking at the issue of Ucrobanprom's permission to get credit and we're going to continue to be irresponsibly spending money on our defenses, today we're going to be considering the subordination of the intelligence structures, today we're going to be considering the issue of liberation, in fact, without the trial of our military personnel, who may have suspected that they left the military forces on their own, but even the investigation isn't finished and the court's decision on this point, but we're going to be giving the right to release. Today there are only two laws aimed at soldiers and families, families of the dead, families of those soldiers who were disabled, if you recall, more than a year and a half ago, we passed a law with you that increased payment to the families of the soldiers who had died and also increased the salaries paid to the soldiers who had received it from the first to third levels of disability, but the law was committed by the President, and there was a tender. We're ready, the president's ready to sign it, but if that amount is reduced. So the value of a human, it's got a certain clear figure. Until then, everyone claimed the value of a soldier. It doesn't matter, but this law is for granted. The second law we passed is that we let the soldiers feel free, get the right to choose whether he still wants to stay on top and protect the country, or maybe in two, in three, in five years he's already got that tired, psychological tiredness, and today he wants to go home. And this law was made. So the issues that we're dealing with today with reforms with you, the issue of control today of spending money, we're taking another budget, we're not speaking in any way today in Parliament, we don't know in any way how money was spent in two and a half years of war, when everyone was talking about that country helping everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u17	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u18	And as MPs with access to classified information, we can see these contracts, and I urge you, look, you'll see how many hundreds of millions of people are stealing from this, we're not considering these reform issues today. But the last question I want to stop on is the question that's been going on for the last few days. When we talk about control today, we have to remember that there are a few days left to control us, this is the first law that Parliament has passed in order to limit itself, this is an issue of electronic declarations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u19	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u20	What's going on today is that this declaration is to bury and continue to allow these corruptions to be preserved in the hall, we can't allow it to be preserved, and Self-Help will do everything to make the electronic declaration work in Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Will you be from Fatherland? National Deputy Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I'll give you just one example in the last few days. You know that Ukraine is part of a family of 19 countries in the world that have space industries, and we have one of the strongest South-South KBs in space development, and we as a country are the fifth among 19 cosmic countries today that have a fifth place in space launches. What's going on? Our designer is the head of the South Bank, a man who's been known by the entire Degtary world, who, in the last six years without a penny of government money, has raised our sector to the highest level. He is released and announced, at the direction of the President, the Prime Minister, where a man who has never worked in the field of space and who trades in domestic chemistry in Turkish production is proposed. And now this person is assigned to the South Side through the competition, and our chief designer, the people who can be counted on the fingers of one hand in the world, are thrown onto the street. We've got the entire South and South, but they're still shaking and throwing away our designer. Tell me, is that a coincidence? No! No! This is one of thousands of examples of Ukraine’s destruction as an intellectual state in the world. Likewise, Kiva, our air engineer, is thrown out on the street, and today he leaves to work abroad. We're being cleaned up as a country. And so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all our problems today, the chaos that prevails in the country, are not accidental. To our team's conviction, it's handmade, and it's being carried out to destroy the country as a competitor in the world. And to clean up our economy, our social sphere, and forced to reduce the number of people in our country. The same is true of the earth. We believe that the intellectual forces of the country must be brought together immediately in order to prevent the real destruction of Ukraine as an independent state. And one of the first steps is, of course, Mrs. Gotarev, who in the previous regime was a key person who did all the corruption equipment with valuable papers for Janukovic's benefit. Now it's a tool to actually eliminate Ukraine's economy through Nazbank. That's why she had a "red button" in her hands when the bracelet course was reduced three times. After that, everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u24	Then all the other processes went spontaneously. The decline in the standard of living of people, the destruction of 80 banks, the rate of credit for business, which is insurmountable, up to 30 percent. It has virtually nuclear weapons in its hands today to eliminate the economy of our Ukrainian state. That is why we demand that we immediately ask the question of the liberation of the Potters. And create special commissions to investigate what she's doing with the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u25	Please, 30 more seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u26	What she's doing under the patronage of the President and the Prime Minister. We need to protect our nation, our resources, and our Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u27	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u28	Welcome to the chairman! People's deputies, Ukrainian people! I'm going to start my statement from the budget, from the part about national security and defence, namely the budget for those defence companies that can be funded by Yanukovich's money, a cynical criminal who's been in the pocket of every Ukrainian, and now he's contributing to the killings and robberies in eastern Ukraine. I'm talking about billions of dollars stolen from the government budget. The government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk nearly two years ago found this money and arrested it. And Parliament has been unable to return to the state budget for two years. Even children already know the term “special confiscation. ” But some adult national deputies who know all the letters are running out of time to read the document. So to the right and to the left, they walk, comment, and criticize him on all airs. Persuaded, society should know who is deeply concerned that Yanukovich is not married around the world. Hence, they endeavor to preserve his plundered welfare. The Fatherland faction gave only one vote for the special confiscation, Opoblok, zero. Together, they struggle to keep the money at Yanukovich. Unfortunately, part of the BPP faction continues to take an irresponsible position. I want to remind you that in the 2017 budget, this money is already invested in the revenue part. But the lack of confiscation means the unreality of the income part of the budget! The President must convince his faction to vote. The fullness of executive power in the hands of the President. And in order to finance the expenditure of executive power, this law must be adopted. I would like to point out that the Special Confiscation Bill No. 5142 was developed by the Joint Group of Deputies and the Ministry of Justice and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is approved by international experts and meets international standards. The People's Front faction insists on the introduction of a special confiscation bill to the agenda and calls on the deputies to think about the Ukrainians, not Yanukovich and his wealth. He is supported by both the President and the Prime Minister. I recall on October 15, President Poroshenko publicly called on the MPs to adopt a special confiscation bill and stressed that whoever in principle opposed this mechanism was on the side of criminals who stole huge money from the budget. If the bill is approved, the budget will receive at least one and a half billion dollars from the special confiscation. And what I'm proposing is the People's Front Bill, 50 percent, almost 20 billion dollars to be passed on to finance security and national security, and 20 billion dollars to be transferred to finance public budget expenditures for socially vulnerable species. The People's Front requires a substantial increase in defence and security spending every year, especially every year to increase salaries for military and tested police officers. The People's Front requires not only extension, but also expansion of sanctions against Russia. The members of our faction introduced Bill No. 5274. The vote for the project will show which of the deputies works for the Kremlin. And I emphasize that our faction supports in the Supreme Council any bill aimed at extending and extending sanctions against the aggressor. And the People's Front initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u30	Yesterday at the faction meeting, we decided to invite the government to set up a 12-month schedule for non-subsidized citizens. This initiative was also considered by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk – to set up payment schedules for municipal payments. That is, those Ukrainians who have no opportunity to obtain and form subsidies could make a 12 - month schedule and go through the heating season peacefully. And finally. Yesterday our faction had the privilege of associating with prominent politicians, Reformers Lesek Baltzerovich and John Miklosz, who began their country with a difficult but necessary path of reform. They admitted that two years ago, when Ukraine was banned from exporting to Russia, it was a major blow that caused the recession. In these difficult circumstances, the budget and banking system were threatened. And due to the policy of the government of Yatzenuk, this failure did not occur. And now this year is beginning to see slow economic growth, which can and should be strengthened by reforms that are not painful for society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u31	Please add another 30 seconds. I'll give you another 30 seconds. There was a precedent. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u32	These reforms are painful for interest groups that protect their privileges through the deputies who sit in this room. But I want to stress that there is no turning back, and reform cannot be stopped. The People's Front faction will support initiatives that will continue to reform the Yatsenuk government, which has taken the burden of the most difficult and responsible decisions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Replica, one minute, Sobolev. And Irina Lucenka get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, here's the faction of "The Fatherland" about the return of Yanukovich's funds. I think you should mention Gottaareva, who directly transferred all of Mr. Arbosov's and Janukovich's expenses to 14 offshore companies. Now, when you start to think about it and find out how $1 billion of $20 million was accounted for by offshore 14 companies, then it'll be clear who's still hiding Yanukovich's money. Moreover, the court’s decision, which was adopted in June 2014, was indeed the case in which the funds were arrested in the accounts of these 14 offshore companies. And I think it's only when Gonnaareva here responds to whose benefit she did it and whose job she did it for, we'll figure out who's still running Janukovich's money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to make a closing statement, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And before we go from Peter Dustenk's Block, I'm inviting Irina Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u36	Dear national deputies, colleagues of the majority factions and opposition! Today, I would like to welcome to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe all the national deputies of Ukraine with the outstanding diplomatic victory brought to us by the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to refer to the names of these deputies: Vladimir Ariev, Irina Gerashchenko, Alexei Honcharenko, Sergey Sobolev, Julia Lewochkina, Mrs. Sotnik, Mr. Kiral, Sergey Vlasenko, Leonid Jemetz, Mr. Bereza, Mustafa Gemilev, Maria Ionova, Mr. Ungurian. All these national MPs, following the directives received from the President of Ukraine, were able to break Russia’s friends’ plans to return the Russian delegation to Africa without fulfilling the conditions imposed during the imposition of sanctions. I want to emphasize that this victory at the same time gives us one basic lesson that we must learn: abroad, regardless of our political preferences and our differences, we are primarily Ukrainians. And if we act in a friendly and coherent manner as our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we will be able to effectively defend the interests of the country inside and inside. Unfortunately, inside the country, being the only one we haven't learned yet, although in the face of an external enemy, we should have done it three years ago. Unfortunately, our parliament is torn apart again, we have not been able to vote in a consolidated manner and solve the problem of continuing the moratorium on selling land last sessional week as we are again being subject to contentions and confrontations. This time, on the line of treatment, to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, arguing that Ukraine's economy is not all the problems primarily of the collapse of the fines and bankruptcy of smaller banks. But, gentlemen, let's be honest, the problems in the banking system started in 2009 as a result of the global financial economic crisis: and the rate of the bracelet was lower then, and the prime minister was different, but it didn't save, for example, the bank Nadra and other smaller banks. During the time of Janukovič's reign, there was not one scheme using small banking institutions – those who were engaged in conversions, or those on whom the family's profits were being poured out. And now that Nazbank has actually cleaned these Auggie's stables, a coordinated attack is underway. Another tranche of IMF and a third $1 billion loan guarantee demonstrate trust in Ukraine by the international community in its efforts to implement vital economic reforms and anti-corruption reform. The enemy at the border of the country is doing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u37	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u38	It makes power more open to the comments of society, opposition and international partners, and society more complex. Thus, even the interim results of reforms deserve support and encouragement, not just criticism because of the "mare" populism that causes internal instability. When you criticize water, you can throw your child away, you need to learn to appreciate the progress that has been made. We've become energy independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u39	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u40	And through subsidies, the authorities will support the most vulnerable and help pay less due to the energy efficiency programme. As a result of decentralization, the community’s budgets have increased significantly, including hundreds of remodeled and drowned schools, driveways, built gardens, hundreds of miles of rehabilitated and paved roads, renovated and built bridges, and new school buses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u41	Mrs. Irina. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u42	The achievement on the diplomatic front is a change in the rhetoric of Europe as regards the attitude towards Minsk. First the border, and then the long-term security issue, and then the elections. The result of Defense Prom's work is over a thousand units of new and renovated technology, Min. The APC is a programme designed to provide more than 5 billion financial aid to farmers and small businesses in the countryside. Believe me, we're not in euphoria, we're in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u43	Ma'am, Ira. Dear colleagues, will we be able to finish? Mrs. Irina, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u44	Gradually, step by step, Ukraine is changing, and so it was very desirable that this political season, if there are no major external shocks, be the next step towards not going back to the old rules. And each of us, both the opposition and the authorities, can make a significant contribution to making this non-refoulement happen earlier. So I urge you, honourable national MPs, less words and more action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now I'm going to have all my colleagues speak, all the heads of the factions. I wanted to tell you two things: the first thing that is a requirement of two factions requiring a break that is ready to be replaced. The next colleague, we now have a plan approved to have a national security and defence unit. But before that, we have to go through the issue of approving the order of the day session again. And I'd like to ask if you'd like to speak now, wouldn't you? It's from the Radical Party faction and the People's Front, right? Okay. We're going to give two factions of the performance first, and then we're going to go over the order of the day session, and I'm going to give you two minutes, Oleg, in that section, if I may. So from the factions of the Radical Party, the People's Front to the word is invited to Halasyuk, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u46	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I have to tell you that the government is once again making plans to abolish the moratorium on the exports of roundwood that we have accepted with you in these walls for 10 years. This is an absolutely unacceptable, shameful, anti-government decision that the government is trying to make incentivizing it by obtaining a European loan of 600 million euros. Dear colleagues! I want you to just think about what this is about? It is about continuing for 25 years without hindrance to export one of Ukraine’s valuable natural resources, destroying Ukraine’s ecology, freeing the forest from roundings, so that Ukrainians are not forced to work here and have to go to Poland and to other European countries by earners. It's where the Ukrainian forest makes ready-made products -- furniture. Dear colleagues, just think about it! With the exact same forest area in Ukraine and Poland, the amount of woodworking, furniture, pallets, paper in Poland is ten times higher than 25 billion dollars compared to 2.5 billion in Ukraine. We can actually imagine that. Can we allow this to continue? No, it's not. No, not again. When the government says it's very necessary to get 600 million euros, I want to remind you that it's called macrofinancial aid. This is a loan that will have to be returned to us and our children. What if I were to give you numbers to compare what is this 600 million? Consider, then, that in the last five years, only three commercial positions, including a round amount of forest smuggling from Ukraine, amounted to over $1 billion in United States dollars, more than a billion in smuggling. So in fact, the government needs to do something to block the country's economic borders, take control of them, including the smuggling of roundwood forests. And then there's going to be budgeting, because this billion is not an easy figure in statistics, this billion is not an investment in the Ukrainian economy, it's an uncreated job, it's an unpaid salary, it's not a tax on the Ukrainian budget. And then we think about where to pay pensions and how to ensure a European standard of living. So that's exactly what it's worth at the expense of your own industry, at the expense of your own production. And we need to maintain our industry, and we need to lose the import of woodworking equipment. To adopt drafts in a second reading on industrial parks to create favourable production conditions in Ukraine and not to continue living on foreign loans because there is no escape. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party faction that we propose to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Before I move to the agenda, I would like to refer once again to all the factions and groups that take the floor with great request: to follow the rules, this is not my challenge to continue or not to continue, is the rule of the same term. And I have a great request to get into this term so that the same is true and the same is true for all factions. Now, colleagues, we're moving on to our first question. This is the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call (5060). I would like to point out that by not taking the whole decision, we are blocking the work of so many committees that need to be included in the agenda, only then will they be able to deal with it. For the third week in a row, we are voting only on the weekly agenda. I know that some factions have a position to register a number of other bills in order to include them in the agenda. But we can do it during our work. I would like us to exchange our thoughts on this matter. This ruling does not provide for a reduced procedure. We can exchange thoughts from factions here. I would like to point out that Decree 5060 included all the laws that were recommended by factions and recommended by committees and passed by committees. And I think we have every reason to vote on the ruling as a whole. Of course, if we don't get a positive vote, I'm going to propose a weekly agenda. But I would like us to exchange our thoughts on this subject and come out for a positive vote. So I'd like to do factions. From Peter Dustenk's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we might, in principle, agree, but we have a number of suggestions regarding our order of the day and the inadmissibility of some issues that are overburdened by populism, the expectation of some new elections, not the responsibility for Ukraine. And we wouldn't want to be the faction they're blackmailing. So we suggested that you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, separately call a meeting of faction leaders on a day-to-day basis and talk about it. Since we need to work, we propose to vote on the agenda for the week, to hold this meeting, and to vote on the agenda at the next plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u49	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u50	I call upon all my colleagues to finally maintain the order of the day, it would be desirable to support it throughout the session, because there are so many bills both from factions and from individual deputies, interfractional alliances. And I think the People's Front faction, I'm sure, will support and vote on the inclusion of all the bills in the agenda. If he decides we're going to vote in a week, we're going to vote. We need to look and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u51	Thank you. By the way, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and there'll be a vote in a few minutes. From now on. I'll give all the factions, of course. From the Opposition Block, please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, let's even think about what the Chief of the Supreme Council is now proposing to do. See, in fact, we are ignoring the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you can see that every day. Next. We were visited by a distinguished mission of Mr. Pete Cox of the European Union, who made clear recommendations, and this was in March of the current year, that every faction must be involved in the day-to-day order of the factions, in proportion to the number of members of the faction. Look, the third week's agenda has been approved. There's no bill from the Opposition Block. In fact, today the chairman has removed the Ukrainian national deputies of the opposition bloc faction from their constitutional right to legislative initiatives. Our social laws are not in the order of the day, the Law on the Moratorium on tariffs and the return to the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u53	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u54	We demand that the sixth position of Mr. Pete Cox's recommendations be carried out. By the way, it is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an act to be followed, including the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We demand that the daily social laws that overcome the poverty of the Ukrainian people be brought into order by the faction "The Opposition Block." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Since I was approached, I will answer. If you read carefully the regulation that we have adopted, it states that the regulatory committee, on the basis of proposals, prepare changes to the Rules for the Implementation of these Recommendations. So the regulation actually calls for us to be able to implement the changes to the Rules. And at the Conciliation Council, I called on all the factions to look at the changes to Parliament's Reform Rules on Thursday. I urge you to work actively in this direction so that we can implement these norms as outlined in Parliament's reform recommendations. And on Thursday, I'm going to recommend to the deputies that we consider this question. Radical party, Easy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction insists that, in this plenary week, parliament finally begin to consider bills that will enable the protection of Ukrainian social rights, reduce the cost of housing services, index pensions, free medicine, security, land, return of government support programs to peasants, protection of farmers from raiders. So all the questions that Ukrainians are facing today. Why was Parliament elected? To protect the Ukrainians. Unfortunately, this function is not being performed by Parliament today. Bills are considered secondary ones that do not solve the problems of Ukrainians. We demand and register appropriate bills to put them in order of the day, and we want to support every Ukrainian who looks at power today and expects something from you. I don't know, the truth is, what can be expected of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. I'll add during the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable chairman! The National Bank of Ukraine, the NCRE Commission, which sets tariffs in Ukraine, Naftogaz Ukraine, were always the tools of the oligarchic administration of the country and the looting of the country. They elected the President, gave the key to these organizations, and this President, along with his slaves in Parliament and in the government, brought the country into labor. After the second rebellion of 2013-2014, this country and the state began to build institutions that banned it. And today this Parliament should not allow itself to be destroyed by such instruments as electronic declaration. Not to be destroyed by such instruments as the new prosecutor’s office, whose amendments to the law seek to turn it back into the prosecutor’s office to Yanukovic and Yanukovič. There is no way to destroy the State Service Law, where man wants to appoint everyone and everyone in this country from above. Because it's a despot, a usurpation, and the right to use an oligaric tool. We need to create an anti-corruption court. It's a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u59	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u60	One who can use what we can't and don't have to. And we must not let ourselves be destroyed in this country, this is the new NABA agency that is now in danger of being destroyed again. And when that happens, if we don't, there will be no Potters, there will be no wolves, there will be no other despots of the presidents and the slaves of the deputies. It's very important. And we all need to take care of it. And as for the agenda, we're in the middle of the day. For in this system of things there is a law concerning occupied territories. Europe has acknowledged that we are in aggression! And we can't do that to this day! And this is our sacred task: security, anti-corruption and unreserved support for the country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Then there are manipulations of the order of the day. Our faction insists, like a number of other factions, that the order of the day be established throughout the session. Which will allow committees to start considering the issues that are really necessary for the country’s vitality. What is now being proposed is a surrogate. When individual issues are raised, there is no systemality in the work of the Supreme Council. A list of questions per week is confirmed, and the key questions are rejected in the daytime. The Fatherland faction insists that the issues related to tariff cuts, the issues relating to the protection of peasants, the transfer to a single tax system and the rejection of the tax system, which was introduced two years ago, which destroys and protects farmers in order to deal with issues that are directly linked to government control, with the purpose of budget allocation, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u63	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u64	were considered in order of the day for the entire session. The issue of the prohibition of the confiscation of housing for public services debts is urgent issues that we cannot find in order every day for a week. That is why our faction insists that all the issues included in the agenda of the Supreme Council be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I want to point out once again, because I've had a few references to the system of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to point out that Parliament's reform is in place, because every day we look at a block of issues on the proposals of the Conciliation Council. And the prerogative of defining matters goes solely to the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is possible that every committee, whether the Halasyuk Committee, or the Ecology Committee, that asked their questions, can say about the effectiveness of this approach, and this is a testimony to the reform of Parliament. Today, the first block is the issue of national security and defence. And I don't see how people have the power to say that these questions don't matter to Ukraine, and some of them have questions. At a time when the situation on the front is getting worse, at a time when we need to support the Ukrainian army more than ever, I can't imagine what's in the head of MPs who say that these issues don't matter and they don't matter. So, your honorary colleagues, in order for us to move on to the issues of national security and defence, to which both the committee and the ministry and the Defence Department have been prepared, we need to establish a day-to-day order or a session or a week, but we need to make a decision to move on to these issues. So I'm going to put to the vote Order 5060 first, and then I'm going to propose to the faction of Peter Prashenko for a week. And I urge everyone to vote in favour of the first decision, if it does not pass, to support the second decision. And I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, because we can't move on to the agenda if we don't make a positive decision, colleagues. Ready to vote? Colleagues, we've taken up jobs and we're moving on to making decisions. So I'm voting on the proposal to support the draft Order (5060) on the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:59:59:59]] For 176 Colleagues, I'm going to make the next proposal that was made by Peter Dustenk's Block. Colleagues, once again, I emphasize that a negative decision in the daytime will lead to paralysis of our work, and we will not be able to move on to the issue of order of the day. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to vote on the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 18-21, where the first block is the issue of national security and defence. I'm asking you to back everyone up. I'm asking you to vote. Please support, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:00:57]] For 216 The second proposal has increased. I see you haven't made it. I'm asking you to come into the hall and support me, colleagues. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We are close to making a decision with literally a few votes missing, and I am very much asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, please, we're going into the hall and we're taking up jobs, and I'm going to put you back on the vote and ask everyone to come to work. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall. And I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal to support the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 18-21 so that we can move on to national security and defence issues so that we can support our army and our soldiers. Please vote and please support the weekly agenda as a whole. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[11:02:28]] For 225 One voice. Colleagues, one voice. I see you're not there, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, colleagues. This question doesn't need a vote to come back, I'll just put it again on the vote, and please. I see that I've entered the hall and I'm once again putting a motion for a vote, asking you to take up your jobs, maintain the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 18-21 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote with discipline and please support. [[11:03:23]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, but I'm asking all the national MPs to come up next week with all the proposals for the agenda to be made. I will hold a meeting on this subject, and I believe, and I am confident that next week we will be able to vote on the ruling in general for the entire agenda of the session. I look forward to having all the necessary consultations in a week. We are now moving to the National Security and Defence Unit. The first block is the first reading, colleagues. And the first one is the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" number 2345a. And I ask you to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support. [[11:04:38]] For 193 Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, Ukraine is facing the greatest test of its new history, this armed struggle for independence and territorial integrity, which is causing aggression by the Russian Federation. You all know that in 2014, at the beginning of the anti-terrorist operation, tens of thousands of our fellow countrymen were involved, particularly those who went to defend our nation by volunteers. Sadly, many of them have put their lives and health in store for the future of their country, for your well - being, leaving their families and loved ones without a breadwinner and without a means of livelihood. We believe that it is the duty of the State to provide social support to such citizens. In line with current legislation, today the issue of pension insurance for those who do not have the status of military servicemen who have participated in the ATO has become disabled, as well as for family members who have died is regulated as follows. The disabled person is entitled to a disability pension under general circumstances, depending on the disability group and the availability of appropriate insurance. For example, the disability pension for the 1st group is 100 percent of the retirement age, or today it is an average of 2,800. And depending on the insurance period, if there's no insurance, it's social assistance, which is 100 percent of the living minimum, that's a thousand 130 dollars for today. In the event of death, help is provided. Pensions for non-working persons, family members are 50 per cent per person if a person has an insurance policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u67	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u68	Which is 100 percent more than the minimum of living if there's insurance. If there is no payment, no pension, no assistance will be given today. Therefore, our law is designed to compare these people to military personnel, so we bring such rights to the Law of Soldiers. So we think it's a contribution. The ban on our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u69	Thank you very much. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. From the committee is there going to be a performance from the seat or from the rostrum? Pashinski. Hall's waiting for a report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! This bill has a very narrow effect, and it is distributed to about two thousand people, but it is our duty to vote on it. Who is the subject of this bill? I'll remind you of those tragic events early in 2014, spring and early in the summer, when widespread Russian aggression began, parts of Nazgardia, the military forces were in formation, and we showed up in June. In May, June, July, some 2,000 persons who were partially killed were partially injured but who were injured. There was no order for them to be counted in one or the other parts. They were either in preparation and were on their way to the front, or they had not yet gone through all the preparations, but they had already taken part in the fighting. That's why I'm asking you to accept this bill. Once again, the budget for it is a maximum of 3.5 million dollars per month, and we are addressing the issue that we have to deal with, namely, providing pensions for about two thousand people who have suffered during the first stage of the ATO. Now these legislators and all these other things are foreseen, but this is what we owe to those people who were the first to defend our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u71	Thank you. I'm asking you to do a two-in-pro, two-again. Please, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u72	Good afternoon! The Radical Party faction. We strongly ask our colleagues to support this bill. In view of the fact that Bill 60 is still in progress. 688 does not regulate the situation and situation of our wounded and dead volunteers. There are also a few other questions before this bill, since it is wrong again. But right now, we need to support this bill because it's more optimal than 688, which isn't working yet. Most people still have no status as a war invalid, so far in the courts, we have years to go to prove that a volunteer died protecting the Motherland, or became a disabled person, that should not be the case. Finally, we must recognize all volunteers who have died or suffered in the protection of the Fatherland. It's a holy thing. We all vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Zubaj Lubomir Lvović
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Simeon Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u75	The Self-Help faction supports this bill. In 2014 in the summer and spring, when the army was not yet ready, when many people did not know whether they were ready to accept weapons for their homeland, against the so-called “brothers” yesterday, many volunteers joined the ranks and the future Naziwardia, formed guerrilla forces. Many of them died, many of them wounded. Now they are trying by courts, by the very long procedure that they have been, many of their families are trying to prove that they were military personnel, that they were involved in an anti-terror operation. There are so many people in the Donbass Battalion. We call on everyone to vote yes. This is little that we can do to help the families of those who did not go for money, not for benefits, but gave their lives to give their health to their homeland. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u76	Please, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u77	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any objection here, and we can see from the presentations by the reporter, the co-reporter and all those who are now taking the word that there is absolute unity in the room. And let's talk about that. To name this bill by their names. This is the real-life law on the pension provision of volunteers, law enforcement officials who have gone to the front of volunteers who now do not have, in fact, adequate material security, have disabilities, disabilities, many health problems, and so on. So, honourable colleagues, right now, I think this law has been developed on a professional basis. In fact, there are some remarks in our colleagues, but I don't think we need to speculate right now on what we should be sending him out for second reading. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be passed in general, and I don't think there will be any provision in the hall, because it is our duty and our debt to those who are now sitting in wheelchairs who can't, in fact, get into our corrupt truth courts and have to stand in line for the money that the government pays them. Now let's make sure that this law gives them the opportunity to get adequate pension insurance. And, dear fellows, please hear: we are voting in general! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev gives Bogdan his word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u79	Good afternoon, colleagues. Bogdan, Fatherland. A very important bill, which I think there is good reason to vote immediately in general. What surprises me is that for over a year, the Supreme Council has not considered such a simple and necessary bill. For no one is the secret, independence, and territorial integrity of our nation protected by an incredible number of volunteers who have come out to protect their homelands in the form of volunteer battalions. It is not their fault that the State has failed to ensure the proper functioning of the Armed Forces that it has prevented people from serving within the Armed Forces. These people risked their lives and health for Ukraine’s sake, but to this day a military officer who was disabled in the ATO area receives a special pension, and a volunteer who received the same injury on the same front, under the same circumstances, receives a meagre pension. The bill does not require any further work; it simply complements the list of people who are entitled to a special pension who have lost their health by protecting their homeland. We have to ensure that it is included in the 2017 budget. Thank you. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Rybczynski, please, from "The Will of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u81	"The will of the people," of course, will support this law, of course. But I wanted to ask you one question about the Rules. The point is that on Thursday, our committee law 3252 on amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the pension provision of individual categories of persons participating in an anti-terror operation. He's actually continuing this law, which we're going to vote for now. I would insist that this issue be brought up now 3252 immediately after this law has been voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. They haven't shown up yet. Yes, please, Yuri Timoshenko one minute and we will proceed to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Turn on Yuri Timoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u83	I address all the decent people in this room. In May 14, along with many of my brothers, I volunteered for the war. I remember all those who died, and I remember all the brothers who were disabled. And I want to remind you that a lot of you who are getting pretty good in this room right now, getting back to the rostrum, not even listening to the people who are in pain, and living some of you are not in slavery, thanks to these guys. And I warn everyone: I will make a list of everyone who has not voted in favour of this law, and see that this list does not once become a list of excruciating or life imprisonment for you! Traitors! We all vote a hundred percent! You're all to blame for these people who died, my brothers!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u84	The discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. The committee made a proposal to vote on the basis. Yes, Mrs. Ludmila? The committee on the basis, right, made a proposal? I'll give it to you. But there were proposals from several factions to vote in general. No objections? Then we vote. I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law, article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (to complement the list of persons entitled to pensions at the same time as members of the military service and members of their families). Number 2345a, based on and in general. Please vote. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[11:18:18]] For 264 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the authors. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for strengthening the guarantee of compliance with Ukrainian legislation). Number 2985. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:18:59]] For 181 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the national deputy Geraszczenko Anton Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! The Constitution of Ukraine, article 17 states that the protection and protection of our country is the work of the entire Ukrainian people. There is a law on military duty and military service, which sets out the obligations of the State, local authorities, private individuals, enterprises and organizations to ensure military recruitment. However, because of some inaccurate wording in the Military Duty Act, there was a situation in which all administrative units in Ukraine, where there were no military commissioners, were, for example, three areas in an area. Military Commissioner for three areas. Local government authorities appear to be not concerned with appeals. In view of this, I, and on behalf of the People's Front faction, have introduced a bill clarifying the Military Duty and Military Service Act, under which local authorities are obliged to assist the military in the organization and recruitment of conscripts. I mean, it's a bill of lading, it's a lot of help in all kinds of military work. It's a technical law. Please support him on first reading. If comments are made, the proposals of colleagues will be finalized on second reading. This is a literal modification of several passages of the law, objectives and clarifications to ultimately improve the quality of the work of the military and to interact with local governments. I repeat. The cause of protection, the security of our country is the work of the entire Ukrainian people. And no one should take away from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor! Please give the floor to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sergio Pashinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Once again, unfortunately, I have to turn to the bitter experience of March-April 2014, when the Russian Federation launched a massive armed aggression against us first in Crimea, then in eastern Ukraine. And I'm going to remind you that at that moment we met this aggression, actually disarmed. Not only are they disarmed from the point of view of the absence of warheads, but they are disarmed from the point of view of our mobilisation capabilities. At that time, the system of mobilization in Ukraine was also destroyed. A lot of military committees have even sold some reform ministers into private hands. And the very technology of the first wave of mobilization, we have faced tremendous problems. Over the past two and a half years, you and I have passed dozens of laws that have improved the system of defence and security. This law is called upon to improve the system of mobilization. Let me remind you that we are now in the process of creating a new system. I hope that today we will vote on the Law on the Electronic Register of Military Obligations. And in this system, we're just improving the system in case, God forbid, large-scale mobilization, first-wave military work, first-wave, first-wave reserve and conscripts, if necessary. Please support as a whole. It's a completely technical law that just improves the mobilisation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please sign up from factions two in favor, two in front. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u89	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I want to draw attention to this law at a different angle. What, then, is happening today to the account of those under military obligation, and how are the messages given to those citizens awaiting the appeal? Military commissioners prepare appropriate lists to apply the relevant standards and to secure these appeals. But let me give you an example of what this law wants to change. That is, the whole obligation of the military commissioners is to translate into the heads of the village councils and their secretaries. So I'm going to make a list, I'm going to give you an example around my county, and I think majors who go around their districts won't let me lie to you. Regarding the fact that when a previous appeal was made, military commissioners gave lists, unverified lists to the village councils. And one village, I have this Voronka, has got 300 messages and dead, and deaf, and blind, and disabled, and, where two, three children, all received messages. I don't know how the poor people of rural council looked into these citizens' eyes, and I saw mothers stand up for their, there, two, three children. Mobilization must be, but it is the duty of military commissioners to make a list. Moreover, the Law on Local Self - Government indicates that it can be involved where there are no military commissioners. And in this way you will see that this is what it will be and what it will be like after the decision, after the adoption of this law. You can't take it categorically.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, from the Omelchenko Radical Party. Passes the word Laško. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! Protecting the country is the responsibility of every Ukrainian citizen. It is not just a duty of soldiers and officers on the front that protect the country, on an advanced day at risk of life and health, but it is the responsibility of each of us through legislative work, through all other mechanisms to support the army, to support the front, to support the Armed Forces, and to do our utmost to restore peace on our home land. Instead, what we see. The previous draft social legislation on the pension provision of military personnel has been voted on, and the entire hall has been voted on, except for the Moscov bloc of thieves. And it doesn't matter to everyone: the head of Parliament is silent, the fellow MPs are silent, there is no condemnation. We can imagine that when Hitler attacked our homeland, there would be a fifth column of Hitler sitting in Moscow, in the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, and no law supporting an army that liberated the country from fascism. Today, the situation is similar, and we have a fifth column that has agreed with the authorities. That's why they're not responsible for the crimes against Maidan, which is why today there are so-called mediators in communication with Putin, and that's why the Battle for stealing $500 million in surplus is not being questioned. And the former head of Janukovic's administration sits as a parliamentary deputy and gives us lectures on how to live in the country -- it's if Borman was head of Hitler's office sitting in the post-war Reichstag and telling us how to build a new democratic Germany. I demand the power of real protection of the country, not agreements with collaborators!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u92	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u93	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Bill 2985, if taken into account, amends article 38 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service. But I would like to remind you of the Law on Local Self - Rule, article 36, where authorities of local self - government are thus promoting protective action. I'll tell you more, from practice: the local government's running the military, the local government's spreading the messages, the local government's helping to find the suitor, the local government's handling the funerals. And the problem is that in this law we translate liabilities from military commissioners directly into local self - government bodies and are obliged to ensure timely arrival. How? Did anyone ask the local authorities how they received the messages? At their expense, they go to the district center, receive messages, return for their expenses, and do so directly in the territory, because they are not delegated powers of the State. Local government authorities, as well as business managers, institutions, organizations, should now follow suitors. Fellows, let me tell you this: Let's not make the work of local self-governance work. And those who are preparing the bill today are cut off from those who work with communities. And the last thing I'm going to say is, if you and the heads of local self-government were greeted earlier, they're turning their heads today. Please let us work systematically and do not translate the obligation into those who are not obliged to do so, they are, in principle, contributing to and leading the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u94	Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u95	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. I fully support a colleague from Fatherland, really, you don't have to translate from a sick head to a healthy one. In the military, it is simply necessary to strengthen the responsibility of military personnel for their work, since in many cases I have faced these problems myself. Soldiers do not work properly and do not follow their direction. It is therefore necessary to increase the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, military committees, not to translate it into local authorities. There can't be a two-man here, there's someone to answer for it, and when two or more of two of them mean no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u96	From "self-help" Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u97	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, in this bill, frankly, since its acceptance is neither hot nor cold. It takes one rule, which is that in locations where there are no military commissioners, let's think about the system of military commissioners, they're urban, district and district. In fact, the city’s military commissioners are located in district centres, still functioning district commissioners, and there is no military commissioner in any village. And by today’s current standard, these rural heads, business leaders, school leaders are obliged to report and there is a standard. And the author is now proposing to take places where there are no military commissioners, or apriors, they're not actually going to change their role. So in principle, the proposal is accepted in the first reading, but it just needs to be specified. Because it's a function for today, it still exists with business leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u98	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u99	But I agree that today's extremes cannot be made by rural heads and business leaders, today, this function is reserved for the military commission. So now the only thing we all fear together is that the military commissioner's function will bring a thousand messages to the enterprise and continue to wash our hands, and shift responsibility to the head of this enterprise. These things can't be allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're from the People's Front and we're about to move on to a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We'll have a vote in a minute. Welcome to the People's Front, Anton Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, respectable Ukrainian people! Once again, the case of the Ukrainian defence is a matter of the hands of the entire Ukrainian people. So far, we're playing football between the military commissioners and the village councils. Where the village head feels responsible for the need to help the appeal, he is working. Where it is not, it finds a small loophole in the Military Duty Act and does not help in areas where the military commissioners are located. The military commissioners do not have sufficient personnel to ensure the appeal. MP Mischenko rightly said that the military commissioner of the area could not know what village: who died, who was born, who went away. This law is therefore aimed at commanding work between rural heads and military commissionerates. We must improve the quality of public administration in the area of defence security, and I ask that the bill be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's proceed to the vote. And I would like to point out that the committee recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of the bill. And even though there were some discussions in the hall, I think we can base our support and work on the second reading. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for strengthening guarantees and enforcing Ukrainian legislation) number 2985 on the basis of a colleague. On the ground, please vote, please support. On the basis of this, please vote. [[11:34:41]] For 224 Fellows, I'll put it back once I see it's not there. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and enter the workplace. Anyone who supports the return to the vote of 2985, please vote. Please. Please vote who supports the return. Colleagues, please carefully vote, please support. [[11:35:24]] For 229 We're back. And now I'm putting the vote back on the ground, colleagues. I would like to stress that this is just a bill that we don't accept as a whole. Please support the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service, 2985 on the basis, colleagues, please vote. Based on the base. [[11:35:56]] For 223 Well, what's going on, colleagues? Colleagues, pay attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, colleagues. If we do this, we'll all be speaking in a minute from the factions. Let's figure it out. Colleagues, you didn't make it, did you? Please come into the hall. It is. Boys and girls, when there are voices, one or two votes is not enough, I put once on the return. My colleagues, I'll bet one time on a return. Only when two votes or three are missing. In this case, we did not get two votes. I'm asking you, colleagues, everyone. Three! Yes, three. Andrew. When two or three people tell me that they haven't arrived, it gives me reason to think that there are voices, they just haven't arrived. I ask everyone to take up jobs carefully. I'm re-voting Bill 2985, my colleague. Please be careful. Please vote for the return of 2985. Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[11:37:25]] For 230 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 2985 on the committee's proposal as a basis. Colleagues, we're voting carefully. Based on the base of 2985. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues. [[11:37:52]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next draft of Law 5048, this is the Draft Decree amending paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Further Measures to Strengthen the Security and Security of the State. 5048, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:38:36]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Defence Minister, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u103	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft act was developed by the Ministry of Defence with a view to excluding the Supreme Council Order on additional institutions to strengthen the security and security of the State of the rule, which provided for a special period of financial provision for military service personnel at the level of the corresponding category of contract service personnel. The standard was designed to encourage members of the military service to carry out military tasks in the area of counterterrorism. At the same time, the decision of the President of Ukraine imposed an order by the President of Ukraine for members of the military service to perform tasks in the area of counter-terrorism operation, and they are not involved in full State detention. Thus, the adoption of the draft act will eliminate the differences in the issue of the provision of military personnel for military service, taking into account the overall cost of maintaining them. Its implementation does not require additional budget allocations. The draft decision was supported at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u104	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u105	I hope this is the last piece of legislation where I'm going to have to go back to the history of this issue -- the beginning of Russian aggression. Once again, on May 6, 2014, Russian aggression had just begun, the Supreme Council decree had been adopted, where we compared the money provided to all other categories of military personnel. But on September 24, 2014, according to the decision of the RNBO, the President’s decree forbidding the deployment of military service officers to the ATO zone. It was a political decision, and you all remember it. It was the right thing to do, because I also think that an expert needs to be taught first, and only then think about where to send him. In fact, we have now moved into a contractual army, but considering that unfortunately, the Russian Empire and its plans have not been shared anywhere, we as a state are obliged to prepare a mobilization resource for the future. To date, some 20,000 military servicemen are serving outside the ATO zone. They're going to be demobilized, and it's going to be this real mobilisation reserve that we can count on for the future. But we have to understand that the contractor who signs the contract knows that at any time they can send it to the ATO zone. The military service officer is fully supported by the state. He is given a minimum amount to provide for his needs, but to compare his money retention to contractors as if it were not only logical but not just fair. That is why the Cabinet of Ministers is anxious to make this decree in order to bring this decree to some logical one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u106	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u107	Before the logical conclusion of what we call army reform. I would like to emphasize once again that today there are exclusively military contractors in the ATO area. Thank you and please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Please record two for, two for against. Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u110	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, read the title of the law and then the essence of the law. What is the title of the law? On additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the country, the State. What's the point of the law? That the paragraph of the relevant decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that those who apply for term services will not be provided at the same level as all other military personnel are provided. Excuse me, what is it about strengthening the country's security? If we move into a contractual army, if there's a hundred percent of the contractor, it's going to go away. But as long as we're actually calling for a term service, it's people who can be at any time, and we see what's happening with the escalation of the situation in the east, with the increase of the shootings, with the direct provocations that are happening there, they'll be thrown over at any moment, maybe as participants in the ATO. Are we going to change the verdict again?Oh, my God! They are persons who are preparing for military service. And everyone who's served in the army, not staying anywhere, knows what it is. So our proposal to the faction, by no means will this rule be taken off. Those who take part in the service are precisely as militarily bound, and they can be engaged at any time for the needs of the army, including for the front. And until a professional contractual army is created, we have no right to take that standard down. When this contractual army is 100 percent contractual, this rule will fall to itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Please Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u113	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help Unite, Ternopil Dear colleagues! This is an example of this regulation, which shows how we are systematically working on this issue in general. What did we get today? We got a country that started a wage war in a thousand, two thousand dollars. And so today we've got contractors, mobilized, recruits who sit in fixed locations and get 7 thousand 200 dollars. And those contractors and the mobiles sitting in the area of anti-terrorist operations are in the war, and they get 8,400 dollars, which shows our systems of approach. And believe me, the one who's going east is the one who's going east, and he's going to hear from the boys in the East, and he's going east, and he's going to say, why would I want to sit here for $1,200? Why we do not have a proper approach to the worthwhile work of people who risk their lives every day for the country’s integrity. Today, dear colleagues, we have not moved into the contractual army, today we have joined the army of slaves, where now more than 70,000 military personnel have received contracts before the end of the special period. The Self-Help faction has long insisted that the pay approach should be differentiated: one is the one that the boys are learning, the other is the one that the boys are going on contracts, and the third is for those who don't care about the contractor, the mobilized, the suitor who takes the place of the fighting tasks, where he has the risk of living and health every minute, where he has 24 hours a day, 30-31 days a month a battle alteration. This is not a comparable situation to the one in the brigade in its military unit. So this approach is going to lead to, I think we have to take this decision today because it's a mixed approach, but sooner or later, a week, a month, we're going to go back to that question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u115	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction strongly opposes the adoption of this bill as it stands. Why? Because we're Parliament of a warring country, we're in a state of war, and now we're making decisions about the economy of the army -- it's shameful and humiliating. Disgusting and humiliating is the distinction between men and women. Because if there's a direct invasion tomorrow, what's impossible to rule out, we're going to run back and change this rule of law? No, this is impossible, absolutely impossible. In addition, once again, I want to increase the attention of my fellow Members in Parliament that, when Parliament is now considering excessive laws related to national security and defence, we have a fifth column in the Ukrainian Parliament, people who do not vote, who do not support, people who oppose the adoption of defence laws. It's a burglary-cremmel block. And no one reacts, no colleagues react, no authorities react, the Attorney General does not respond, and those who have long had to be held accountable continue to speak from the Inter Channel, which distributes the ideologies that are hostile to Ukraine and Ukraine. And they have to pay attention both to fellow parliamentarians and to Ukrainian intelligence. And finally, I want to point out and quote the words of the great Ukrainian, Dmitri Donzov, that we have to turn from the nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u116	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u117	From a nation of slaves crying against a nation of conquerors. So you don't have to blame yourself for getting rid of Motorola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u120	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! This decision was adopted in 2014, this is a comprehensive document. And it would be good if the Ministry of Defence today would report what was done by this decision, which raises problems, which additional decisions should be made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the time being, we are invited to save money on those who are called on to serve in the full - time ministry. In my opinion, such a decision cannot be made. You could agree with the Ministry of Defense’s proposal to increase maintenance, that is, pay for people who are directly in the ATO area rather than saving money for those who call for term services. And I think, in this approach, even if we mobilize all the heads of rural and rural councils, if we're going to make a plan to mobilize into the army empowered by children's rights in the areas of how this is happening right now, we're never going to achieve a positive result. So the question has to be put in another plane: keep the level that is still looking for ways to raise wages and other payments to those who are directly in the ATO area. Therefore, the suggestion is that this document should be further developed, that full information should be obtained on what has been done in order to implement this important decision, and that a balanced, comprehensive, comprehensive decision should then be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u121	Thank you. "The Opposition Block" by Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u122	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Honorable Citizens, Honorable Participants in Today’s Discussion! The Opposition Block has always supported and acted on any initiative that will allow us to resolve the conflict peacefully that we have in eastern Ukraine. But for today, we have what we have, let's not be devious and speak frankly, today any change in the budget is motivated by the need to increase the defence costs. And today we're saving up at the military, and we're saving up at the military economy to talk about the defense budget again, and "the left hand is taking away, and the right hand is giving" is completely inconsistent with the position. And the next. The opposition block won't support this initiative for one reason: and where social justice is, and what's worse is the termist boys, and what's going to happen to those guys when they're out of the contract when they're out of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u123	I'll give you the closing word if you don't mind. Okay? Please, Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u124	Paul Kishkar The People’s Movement of Ukraine I really want more than an appeal to the Ministry of Defense about a comprehensive approach to the issue of financial security for military personnel. And really, that's the gradation, and that's why this bill needs to be supported, because there's a difference between people in the ATO and doing combat tasks and people in the PDA. So let's be careful, look for a set of approaches, so there's seven in the PDA and fourteen in the course of combat, not that you're playing with people in one and a half thousand, two thousand dollars. To the reporter, Sergei Volodymyrovich, we don't have a contractual army, because the contractual army isn't in the form and not in the document signed, but in the capacity of these people to carry out military tasks. And we don't have an army like that yet, we still have to work and work carefully for every soldier and every officer to do that, we need to increase our funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u125	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u126	To increase the financing of security and defence. And I insist that the quality of each soldier and officer, not the shape, ensures that they carry out their combat tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now from the "front" will be the closing word of Sergey Pashinsky, and in a minute we will move on to the decision-making process. So I ask you all to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Turn on the microphone, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u128	First of all, I want to address not even the MPs, but those military officers who may be watching this broadcast right now. You've just heard a whole series of speeches against this decision, so I'm pointing out that these people who have opposed, except for one person, have never voted for the military budget. If everyone were like them, we'd always have a salary of 2,000 dollars, that's the problem. When it comes to realizing issues, people don't support them, and when it comes to naked criticism, we hear protection, it turns out, the protection of our army. Dear friends, the defense of our army is going to be at the time of the budget vote, where, in fact, there is twice the increase in maintenance in the ATO area, and then you're going to show your civic position, not now. Thank you. And I ask everyone to support this bill. We're just bringing to some coefficients the whole legislative field and that's what we have to do, it's the hygiene of our legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and move on to making a decision. Colleagues in the bill initiated the Ministry of Defence, which has the primary responsibility for the security of our country. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote so that the decision is taken in general. Please come into the hall while the deputies enter the hall, and I ask Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich: Mr. Dublin, once again, what is the importance of this decision now and today? I ask you to turn on the microphone again, and you can inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u130	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich! I repeat, honourable national MPs, that we are here to normalize and return what was declared in 2014. This is primarily not the involvement of military service personnel in the area of antiterrorist operations. In view of the fact that at the beginning of the antiterrorist operation, military service personnel were actually involved in antiterrorist operations and military service personnel were killed. Accordingly, a decision was made to increase their financial security as well as all other military personnel. Now it's declared, and it's actually happening, they're not joining the ATO zone, and they're provided with everything that's needed, they're fully secured by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u131	Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Honorable representative Alexander Volodymyrovic, the MPs had a question that had not been answered. With your permission, we'll rephrase it for you, and you'll answer it for clarity. Please, Mrs. Irina, make up your mind. Please listen carefully and give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the rostrum has been approached by a number of national deputies, who have asked the next question, and I will now attempt to formulate a joint statement from the Presidium. Do we understand correctly that there was no grading of this security between the terms and the contractors, because until the last decision and the terms, the contractors were involved in the actions on the front? Now that we're in the contractual army, only contractors have the right to be on the collision line, and there's no right to be there, and that's why this gradation is now being developed and there's only a lot of pay left for contractors and there's no time-consuming it. Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u133	Alexander Volodymyrovich, give a very brief answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! This decision increased in 2014. You have increased the money for military service personnel who have performed tasks only in the ATO area to 7,000 dollars. Those military officials who did not perform tasks in the area of antiterrorist operation also received a minimum wage of 150 dollars. After the introduction of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree, when the Ministry of Defence ceased to include military service officers in the area of anti-terrorist operation, they also began to receive 154 bracelets at locations of permanent location. And they're getting so much right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u135	Colleagues. Colleagues, a representative of the Ministry of Defense answered the question and let the factions be determined by voting, colleagues. And that's why I'm making my first offer. Proposal by the Committee for a draft Decree amending paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the State, 5048. Committee proposal: accept as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support 5048 as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:01:27]] For 196 Colleagues, I'm going to make the following suggestion: return to the committee for further work. It's going to be supported, is that the offer? Colleagues who didn't vote, I'll take a look. Colleagues, return to the committee first will be supported? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let me make the following proposal under the Rules: Project Orders to return to the committee for further work, colleagues. Let's support this proposal. Please vote. Draft Decree 5048 on the Committee for Refrigeration. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[12:02:34]] For 238. Decision taken. I also ask the Ministry of Defence to explain more fully and thoroughly to the MPs the substance and content of the bill. Hopefully, next time we'll be able to find votes under his approval. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a half-hour break in the work of the Supreme Council by 12:35. At 12:35, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for a day-to-day discussion. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. The next question will be the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibilities of military personnel and some others (5112). We're looking at, we're still looking at the security and defense bloc, and I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take jobs, please. Dear colleagues, many of our deputies are at the exhibition of our modern weapons presented by Ucroborprom, and many of them have not yet come to the hall. Let's just wait a minute. There is indeed a unique technique, a unique development of the Ukrainian defence industry, which has certainly interested members of the belligerent parliament, but nevertheless I urge the deputies to enter the hall. A vote is about to take place. And I ask both the heads of factions and the secretariat to invite MPs into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats. So, colleagues, let us go to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others, 5112. Both the committee and the drafters propose to review the bill on a reduced procedure, because there are still a lot of laws on security and defence. And it's also very important for us that at four o'clock we can go to the housing and utility block. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we should complete the security and defence bloc by the second hour. And so if we go into full reading, it's going to be an hour. And we're not going to be able to go through our agenda according to the plan that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. And so I ask my colleagues to support the proposal and the committee, and the authors of the draft bill in short procedure, colleagues. Ready to vote? Please. Please come in. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. This is a request from both the committee and the authors. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote 5112 on the simplified procedure. Please support, please vote. Keep it up, fellows. [[12:46:00]] For 134 Not all were able to vote, colleagues. Please. My colleagues, you know, I can get into full procedure right now. It'll take an hour to lunch. So we're not going to consider six more laws on security and defense. And we're not going to be able to go to the Housing and Utilities section. It doesn't really matter to me. There's a difference between the spheres and the branches that we're looking at today. There is a difference between the Security and Defence Committee and the Housing and Utilities Committee. And that's why I'm asking you to take jobs and support this proposal, colleagues. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, please, I'm going to put the vote again, and I'm asking you to support the proposal of a committee to consider Bill 5112 under a reduced procedure, colleagues. Support the reduced procedure. Vote, colleagues, right? Please come into the hall and support me. Please support me, colleagues, consideration of 5112 on a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please, we're in business. Our PARIE delegation returns from a friendly meeting and is organized in the lead of Ariev and their voices will be as distinctive as in PARK. Please support the 5112 reduced procedures. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:48:21]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Tétyana Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I have to raise a very terrible problem right now, unfortunately, I have to. Before my report, I went online and printed some news. I'm just going to read you the names right now, and you're going to understand what's going on: "In Constantine, a military tow truck ran into three pedestrians. The eight-year-old girl died and the driver was drunk." "The military has arranged a drunken traffic accident in Kiev." "Army officers at the Urals blew up a yard in Santa. " "In Odessa, drunk military personnel set up a traffic jam." "In the Plain Drunken, the soldiers of the Urals evicted the Jeep." "Drunk soldiers chase vodka at a dance, Hersonian." Notice, this is news from a peaceful territory. Unfortunately, if you talk on the front lines, you should tell us that early in the year, skyscrapers associated with alcohol abuse even surpassed our fighting losses. This is a very serious problem, and the Supreme Council should provide some tools to solve it. In this case, I'm going to present a bill, and I'm going to ask him to support it, which gives some tools to minimize these phenomena. It's about the fact that this bill allows for the introduction, the use by the courts of military-administrative offences, of three types of punishment. First. It's retention on the hauptvakht, which is now. Similarly, keeping temporary detention in rooms during a special period is not always possible on the front, as it were, the hauptwah. And finally, third. It's the application of fines, the whole system of fines. I'll tell you, fines are pretty serious. Also about making protocols. It is possible to draw up these protocols by law enforcement agencies. Also the commanders of the military forces that are now in place. Yet, at the same time, we are expanding, and the commander of the military forces can also delegate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u138	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u139	Military commanders may also give their authority to draw up protocols on administrative offences to commanders of certain departments. This enables us to make extensive use of the tool used to fight drunkenness. You see, in principle, we have now raised salaries for military personnel and not only in the ATO zone but also throughout Ukraine, and we need to give a tool to the commanders to influence military personnel, especially through a copy to stop drunkenness, drunkenness among military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u140	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u141	I very much ask the representatives of the Supreme Council to understand how important this is and to give opportunities and tools to influence the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u142	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, representative of the committee, Deputy Vinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u143	Indeed, it is not the first time in this room that we have considered the issue of discipline in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and in military formation. Undoubtedly, discipline, it has the same effect on the resilience of the Ukrainian army as other factors, when we actually have a defensive war now, when we've seen a long period without active action. And unfortunately, it's pretty much relaxing our first line, and we're seeing cases where, in fact, how well our colleague Tetjana Blackwall, a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, the sky loss has surpassed the battle -- so tragically tragic statistics. Indeed, this project is not the first to be implemented and will be implemented for the second time, and it gives effective mechanisms of influence to the commanders to influence their subjects, to apply the means and measures of administrative enforcement, the means of administrative engagement, i.e. fines, to address the issue of maintaining a fighter on the hauptwakh. Undoubtedly, this must be done because, apart from increasing the financial security and in the following year, we will continue to move on this issue, because the next budget provides for an additional increase in the financial security for military personnel. At the same time, there is also a change, actually, of the coefficients where people will get significantly more on the first line to remove the discrimination that many have talked about in this room today. But, no doubt, the same must be done to address questions and strains, and to impose administrative charges, to take administrative action. And it is this project that resolves these issues, amends the statutes, amends the Code of Administrative Offences and gives military commanders the right to draw up appropriate administrative protocols alongside the military law enforcement service, thus ensuring effective mechanisms, and to provide for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u144	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u145	The committee has been looking at this project, it's not simple, and so it will be recommended that it be accepted in the session room in the first reading on the basis of the second reading, and all those who want to join will be able to join. We will be grateful, as a committee, for the fruitful work of the session hall on such an important project and for enhancing the security of the Ukrainian army, the resilience of our military forces. Thank you. On the basis of this, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u146	Thank you very much. Two for, two for against, please. Teen Leo Theofilovich, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u148	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. We'll support the bill in the first reading just to really give the brigade commanders a certain element of influence to those contractors, to those mobilized, who are now in their knowledge. But the problem is that the brigade commanders are not correctional units to raise someone who has not been able to raise a society or family. The brigade commanders will not be able to make an alcoholic a completely normal person, nor is it their responsibility. Today, if we are talking about a professional contractual army, the brigade commanders should be given the right to make contracts with those military men who would be worthy to serve to protect our country. And if this contractor or anyone in any form he's going to be working in the brigade, he's not actually going to be guided or he's going to be constantly at gunpoint or whatever, let the brigade commander get rid of him. The brigade commander has no time to sit down and anyone who does not comply with him to sit down and write records. It's not a professional army, it's a completely different job in the army today. So this bill has a certain situation and a certain need, because unfortunately there is a problem today, but it's not a way to raise a soldier. Consider the legislation of any NATO country, or any country there, for example, the same United States, and they just don't have that question. Because it is a great privilege to serve there, and there a person will not allow himself to walk around the city in a drunken form, or even more to carry out military duties. That's why this bill needs to be further developed into second reading, and in general, we need to make really systemic decisions that will make the army really, really professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Kirilenko John passes the word to John Krulk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u150	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, but at the same time, I'd like to remind you, dear fellows, that this is an impression on the speech of the rapporteurs and authors of this bill, in such general terms that we have an army made up of a lot of drunkards. That's not true! On the contrary, we today need to talk about how to protect our heroes, how to help the families of the dead. And in fact, the problem is that in training, military personnel have to learn, not have the opportunity and the time to engage in drinking, which is the main problem. So, of course, this bill needs to be supported, but at the same time, we need to get through the military, figure out where the budget is going, and how the purchases are going. Finally, we need to create a temporary commission of inquiry to which the "Fatherland" faction has not been called for the first month, where we need to check every bracelet that this Parliament has set aside for defense. Indeed, we need to support the military, remember the heroes, and let us do such things without any particular ostracism or pyar. There is no need to generalize the country on a single occasion and to black out all Ukrainian military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u151	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u152	In addition to what John said, I confirm that this is not a mass nature -- it is indeed a case of reaction, including military law enforcement, which on the one hand, there are no certain powers, and on the other hand the brigade commander himself is not interested in hanging this stick, whether it is criminal or administrative investigation, and he is not interested in bringing these people to justice. So simplify the work, give the commanders an appropriate level of authority to contract and terminate such contracts so that he can actually pick and manage people. For these units to be led, he must have such authority. With regard to the means and measures that must be taken to reduce drinking. It's an internal rotation. When a person has been on the first line for some time, he goes to the second or the second or the third line, and he is taught with it. He does not sit there and seek this alcohol. When the army completes the formation of normal conditions for military personnel on the first, second, and third lines, for today those tents that are on the second line are not able to rest properly and, of course, the person is tired or tired looking for ways to rest. And there's usually something about that in the bottle. Therefore, this law must be based on and further developed in order to reduce drunkenness in the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u153	Thank you. And the closing statement, yeah, yes, and Mosiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich. Then from the People's Front, Timoshenko and Sergey Melniczuk. Please turn on the microphone, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u154	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will support this bill in the first reading. Because the essence of this bill is essentially the result of the entire Ukrainian military history. We also need to remember that our ancestors were even killed in campaigns when they were using alcohol, and the damage that alcohol brings especially to the front, especially the avatars, which often do not only harm themselves, but also to their brothers. At the same time, we fully support the idea of colleagues who have been here as to the need to finalize the bill in part to allow the brigade commanders to self-construct contractors in order to select some personal composition of brigades and combat units. In addition, it should be made clear that, in fact, "avatars" so-called do harm to the front, do harm to the TU, but you can't say that the Ukrainian army is exclusive. "Avatars" are exclusively people who drink alcohol. It's not a systemic phenomenon, so you don't have to. and single. And you don't have to drag for the right law to be passed, black out the army as a whole. That's why we're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u155	Thank you. One minute, Timoshenko and Melniczuk. There's been a performance from the Radical Party, Mrs. Oksano. Colleagues, I'm about to give you my word, only I'm asking you to pay attention. We have seven more bills, if I'm not mistaken, from security and defense. We have to finish in an hour. I know it's not real anymore, because we've been having long discussions in the morning. But I ask you, if the bill is supported by all, in a concise, concise way, to express your position. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, one minute, then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u156	Many of my predecessors debated this subject so authoritatively that it was so imagined. Well, they must have been there and probably know what they're saying. But only for sure. I believe that the existence of military uniforms and even the availability of rewards do not give anyone any right to drink or commit any of these crimes. How much pain, how many deaths, how many disabilities have occurred during the years of this war because of alcohol. Everyone has the right to drink at home after a war or on vacation, where he will be ashamed of himself by his drunken infamous conduct, but not in the midst of brothers in military form when he disgraces not only himself but all the brothers around him. I remember having a general in Petrovtsa at school when I saw him drunk, I just immediately released him and ordered him to throw away outside the military and never to miss again inside, and I believe that this was done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u157	Sergey Melniczuk, one minute. Please enter the National Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u158	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. I recommend the drafters first to study the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, there is every step outlined to do, what to do, what to guide the commanders of the parts. That's the first one. It's different. We must return to what we have lost, namely to restore the hauptwaht system and disciplined battalions so that the commanders can properly punish their subjects and punish them with money, and there are certain weights in the commander's system. And, of course, we have to get the contracts back. The lower-ranking commanders will be given the right to enter into contracts, and they will be able to manage them. But all we see is a few bills that were passed today, and someone wants to drag the military part in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u159	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u160	We can create military courts, give them rights so they can function normally. Today, a soldier who was in the ATO zone for 60 rounds of ammunition is his BK, the judges don't know the legislation of the military. How can we do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come in, take jobs. From the non-fractional 1 minute Golovko. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. There will be a decision-making process. Please, one minute, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u162	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, as to the substance of this law, know that we are always with you, as always, discussing only the consequences, not the reasons. Sadly, the reason is that our nation is totally promoting alcohol consumption. And we're taking disgraceful places in the world among per capita consumption, which is over 16 liters of ethyl alcohol. The same is true of our young ones. But unfortunately, there's a big lobby in Parliament, and that's exactly what they're suggesting is that they want to make money in a singing nation. The same 2971-d bill, which stands in order this week, about allowing beer not to be alcohol again, that we so sought, allowing it to be advertised, and thereby making it easier for young people and society to realize it, says that Parliament is not about national interests, it is about business, it is about making money for our young people's health. We have to do everything we can to prevent the adoption of such laws and to limit consumption, access, advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u163	Thank you. I want to emphasize that we are considering the law of security and defence, the increased responsibility of military personnel and some others. We're done here, colleagues, we're moving on to a decision. I would like to point out that the committee recommends acceptance as a basis. Although there were warnings, almost all political forces expressed their position to support the foundation. That is why I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibility of military personnel and some others, number 5112. Colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote, please support. 5112, based, colleagues. Please vote, please vote. [[13:08:40]] For 236 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. And let's move on to the next bill of order of the day, 4972. This is a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for State Guarantees). There's an offer from the author, a review of the reduced procedure, from the committee. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[13:09:23]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Vinick John Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Well, you all know that the development issue of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the purchase of technology and weapons, the financing of the state defence order, was based on the income that the budget would receive from the acquisition of Yanukovich's assets in favour of the state budget that had not yet been implemented. And Parliament has not made any political decision to introduce the institution of so-called special confiscation into Ukrainian criminal and procedural legislation. By 15 percent, the government’s defenses will be executed. And it is only because the government has issued government guarantees for a total of 6 billion dollars under which operators have been involved, credits, and public defence orders. You know, the absurd situation is in a country that's in a state of war where there's a lack of financing for the defence of businesses. This bill is called upon to increase the government's right to guarantee from 6 billion to 10 billion. In order to launch the aviation sector today. So that, well, not at the expense of Janukovich's money, which we've been so careful about here, we can't hide in those accounts, and we can't get into the government budget, but at the expense of other tools. But we are obliged to develop the Armed Forces during the war. So this project is extremely simple, and we're modifying article 6 of the State Budget Act 2016. We give the government the right to provide guarantees from 6 billion to 10 billion with a total limit. You know, voting for this project, for me, is going to be a bit of a ruby of understanding, is this Supreme Council supporting the development of the Armed Forces, or is it just destroying them. In my view, this is one of the most important projects today, along with others related to national security and defence. You know, I'm hoping that we'll include today and the issue of confiscation in the agenda. In the meantime, we are obliged to give other tools as long as we are here to decide whether to draw Janukovich’s money into the state budget or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u165	Please refer to the report by the Secretary of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Škvariluk Volodymyr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u166	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 4972, according to the author of the bill today, does not require any additional expenditure from the state budget, i.e. the guarantees that are provided, today will be fully implemented for the military and industrial complex. Because an article in the state budget for a military industrial complex is coming from a special fund of funds that are not confiscated today, so today it is not possible to fund fully the costs of a military industrial complex. On July 14, we had before us a bill and a request to support it on a basis and in general. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the bill because it corresponds to the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence. So the proposal from the committee is to adopt the bill as a basis and generally without the Committee's attention. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u167	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please record: two for, two against. Please. Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. He's handing Oleg Valeriovich the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the Radical Party faction unanimously supports a bill that provides State guarantees for the financing of the defence. But at the same time, I want to go to the government: how do we use the funds that are allocated to the defence budget in the current year and the following year? I've been to Mariupola recently, there's a powerful company called Azomash, which unfortunately is in a state of bankruptcy. Why? Because no amount of government orders, and it could work for the naval forces, and it could work for the army. Dnipropetrovsky, who lost his markets and his cooperation with Russia as a result of Russian aggression, instead, doesn't have a single copy of the Uzhmash government order. The Hardow Tractor Plant, which could produce tanks, commercial, Slavian companies of the military-industrial complex. I have a requirement for the government, I have an appeal to the President as the Commander-in-Chief: all these tens of billions of dollars that are earmarked for the defence budget are primarily used to restore the national defence and industrial complex of military science, high technology. These are workplaces for hundreds, thousands of Ukrainians, and related economic sectors. It's billions of dollars coming to government, local budgets, the Pension Fund. Enough to get into our partners, to ask hamsters to be in uniform or military form, we're capable of doing everything on our own. One thing that our partners need to do is to implement the Budapest Memorandum guarantees, change the form of negotiations, re-establishment, renewal, and increase sanctions against Russia. This is what our partners are supposed to do, and the Ukrainian authorities have to give the Ukrainians a job and a decent salary and all the defense budget costs to rebuild our country's military and industrial complex. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Solowy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u170	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, I attended an exhibition during the afternoon of the modern development of the Ucrobanprom, which is taking place right now in our inner courtyard of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm asking all of my fellow Members of Parliament to also find a few minutes to go into the internal doors of Parliament and see what the Ukrainian military sector is capable of. I want to say that in its own time, the production of modern weapons has characterized Ukraine as one of the most competitive states not only on the European continent but also in the world. Unfortunately, in the last 25 years, in view of the fact that the State has not paid any attention to the development of the state's military-industrial complex, this sector has been brought to zero. But by the way, today, these patterns that have literally been restored and put on the stream for the past two years as "Watchtower" or "Fantom" are the ornaments of the Ukrainian military and industrial complex. Is the state of affairs sufficient for the present? Obviously not. We have never succeeded since the beginning of this year in adopting appropriate legislative acts that would allow the costs of the Yanukovic regime to be reimbursed to the state budget. And that's why this bill is an alternative path that allows us parliamentarians to return funds to the military industry of our state. Allow further involvement of state guarantees to load our companies into the military-industrial complex with work. So I appeal to everyone to support this bill and to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Please let Matvienkov pass on the word of Debenkov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The State of Ukraine was known worldwide not only by the production of military equipment, we had very powerful industries of shipbuilding, engineering, missile construction, and the space industry was also an intellectual person of Ukraine. Unfortunately, under the current authority, many enterprises in these industries are simply in a rather poor financial situation. With regard to the bill itself, the bill proposes to increase the amount of government-guaranteed debt, i.e. where State guarantees are provided by the Ministry of Finance or the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the government budget deficit of Ukraine. I would like to recall that the government budget deficit is more than 700 billion dollars. In addition, I would like to recall some figures: in 2013, the amount of public debt and guaranteed public debt was over 550 billion dollars. Government debt and guaranteed public debt are now measured by trillions. 1.8 trillion grevens is the debt of the entire State of Ukraine, and since 2020, part of the gross domestic product, which has already fallen three times due to the devaluation of the bracelet, will be voted for by the previous coalition. The policies of the current government, the President, the Government in force of the coalition are now aimed at increasing public debt, the debt of public enterprises that will cover our generation and generation of futures, our children and our great-grandchildren. Now we are not proposing, we are not doing anything, but we are only making the State of Ukraine even more indebted, and this is what the State of Ukraine is now celebrating as one of the greatest debtors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u173	Sergey's gone mad, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I would like to dispel two myths, but the speaker has just stated that we are increasing the debt of the state. True, it's a transfer within the sums that exist, 4 billion to the defence sector, so there's no increase in the debt of the state. The second myth is, we didn't approve the Special Confiscation Act, so there's no money for an army. It is not necessary to humiliate Parliament, Parliament has passed the Law on Special Confiscation, Parliament has passed the Law on Procrastination, Parliament has passed the Law on Confiscation of Property of Bank Owners, which deliberately led banks to bankruptcy. Why is none of these laws applied? There is a decision of the relevant courts, there is all the necessary legislative basis. Why is Janukovitch not convicted after a year and four months after the discovery of a criminal case against him, according to the Law on Procrastination? According to this bill, our proposal to support this bill, but those programmes that are being approved today should, in my opinion, be approved by Parliament. Then it will not be that key areas such as aviation, machinery building will sit without a government order, and they will knock in the towers inexplicably on what is then even shamefully provided by the armies. That's why our faction proposes within the limits of the deficit that exists to approve the transfer of these funds. But the very practice of State guarantees is shameful, and these funds should be included in the state's budget, because then looking for where these state guarantees are given to those under whom they were made impossible. And all the practice of the previous decades just confirmed that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, please come into the hall, from the non-fractional one more minute of Lewchenko, please come into the hall, and there will be a vote in a minute. Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u176	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. There is no doubt that we must do everything we can to ensure that there is sufficient funding and funding and the ability to finance a defense order to modernize the Ukrainian army. And we will vote in favour of this bill. On this point, there is an important issue, which is the control of the funds involved. The point is, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I have already received appropriate orders from the Ministry of Defence, the government to approve specific projects under such guarantees. And the last time we were brought to the budget committee, it was literally an hour before the budget committee, it was handed out as something very secret, without any grounds, explanations or understanding at all, and what interest rates are the corresponding loans issued? Why such projects, and so forth? So still, if billions of dollars were to be spent on such things, I would still urge the executive power to properly control all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, please. Is there a right to the law? Please, the author of the Squirrel Committee, please, 30 seconds and ask everyone to come into the hall. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u178	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! That was the addition. Now, what was out of the technical law was, like, a government bill of 5217, which was already adopted by the Supreme Council on October 6th. So these corrections that I read from the speech are asked to be considered. That's why Bill 4972 is the basis, and generally, without the committee's rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u179	Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for state guarantees that will be available to ensure the fulfilment of the debt obligations of Ukrainian resident owners for loans (loans) involved in financing programmes related to increased security and security of the state. Number 4972. At the suggestion of the committee on the basis and in general with the proposals made by Squaryluk from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, please vote, please support 4972. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:24:55]] For 210 210, colleagues, what's the matter? One second, it's 210. Let's look at the factions. 96, 64, Self-Help 8, Easy. Colleagues, I'll put it back once, yeah. Colleagues, tell us whether we have political difficulties or not. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on now, if there are no votes, I'm going to lay the groundwork. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Colleagues, may we vote? I propose to return to the vote in favour of Law 4972. I ask to vote in favour of the return to vote 4972. Please, we're taking up jobs. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:26:34]] For 216 If I put it as a base, could it be supported? If I put it on a base, will it be supported? Colleagues, I'm going to make the next proposal that the Rules provide, that's the basis for voting. Colleagues, give us a minute from the Vinnick Committee. One minute, please advise us how to act. One minute, Vinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u180	Andriy Volodymyrovich, my distinguished colleagues, well, I said that voting for this bill would be such a Rubicon for understanding who supports the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Army, the Ukrainian State, and who doesn't. I'm very surprised at the position of Self-Help, which at first did everything to undermine any of our initiatives to raise Janukovitch's money in favor of the State Budget, so that they could continue to be used by the Ukrainian army, and now that they've done well with this order, they're rolling down even state guarantees that we're trying to save at least 15 percent of the execution of a government order that we can do in theory if we get these state guarantees to secure a state defense order. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! I know you speak a lot better in Ukrainian than you do in Ukraine. Make your choice now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u181	Thank you. I'll give all the factions a minute, colleagues. I'll give all the factions a minute. Please, now in sequence, there was a mention of Self-Help. Self-help, please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u182	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u183	Yegor Sobolev, please, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u184	I want to tell John Winnick and Sergey Pashinsky myself. The time when you say, "It's all for war, for the front," the third year you're uncontrollablely using taxpayers' money for defense, it's over. We will support, as we have always supported, the financing of defence, but there must be parliamentary control on behalf of society as this money is being used.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Pashinski's replica, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u186	Dear friends, demagogies, lies, and populism are unfortunately some of our politicians' business cards. Once again, in our open sessions of the committee under the television camera, we've taken down all the facts of the corruption of the Ministry of Defense, dozens of criminal cases have been violated, we've invited NABA, we've invited everyone we want. I'm addressing the self-defense and security committee, is that true or not? I want to say again, enough lies, we have strategic tasks and let's stand up for them. We're in this year, and that's the fact that we broke the state defense order, it's a crime against our state, and don't cover yourself with these slogans that you're some kind of fighter for something. You're not a fighter. Sabotage and demagogues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u187	Colleagues, from Fatherland, Hope Savechenko, please. Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u188	Fact about corruption at the Ministry of Defense and Ucrobanprom. The scheme that I'm investigating right now: the Ministry of Defense is providing state guarantees to UkriSibbank under a percentage of 5-10, for example. The Ucrobanprom doesn't give Kharkiv, for example, the Malishev factory, where there's all the power to make technology, but some of the stuff in this factory that knocks tanks out. project. project errors. We won't discuss it now. Money is being washed, and we have a million and a million at the exit in two or two and a half years in machine tools. Who has the benefit of that? I don't mind that Ukrainian industry and power work, the law has to be adopted in general, more precisely as a basis, but for the next time, we have to be given a list of those enterprises that will accept state defense orders, so that it's not a job that lacks the capacity to produce quality technology. Thank you. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u190	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to address all of you. Stop blaming each other. The issues of defence, the security of the state, the strengthening of the Armed Forces and our defence complex are the issues that should unite us. It's no place to blame each other. Next, next. We absolutely support all the demands to fight corruption, including in the Ministry of Defense, and we have a lot of issues. But the fight against corruption does not reverse the obvious fact that without the money of a powerful army and defense there will be no. And so let's now vote on a law that will allow us to fund the defense order, and at the same time let's do anti-corruption processes. And anyone who steals money from the military, from the army, from the armed forces, from the wall, and from the fucking mother! Because they're marauders, they're saboteurs, they're pests against our own country. But the law must be voted on!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u191	Thank you. The People's Front hasn't shown up yet. Maxim Burbak. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u192	Dear colleagues from the constructive opposition, I'm asking you to understand one thing. Yesterday we met, our People's Front faction with the famous reformers Baltzerovich, Miklosch, who said, "Yes, thanks to the work of the Yatsenuk government, the economic crisis in our country has been halted." Instead, on our question, what is the threat now in our country, is the rise of populists in Parliament, on the talk show and in general in the whole state. This is a major threat to our nation. Don't hide with nice slogans! We need to increase the security of our nation. The main thing is the war against the aggressor, and then you will discuss the fight against corruption! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u193	Thank you, colleagues. Ever since self-help, Oksana Siroid. I will, Sergey Melniczuk. Colleagues, one by one from the faction, from the group, one by one. It's the will of the people, Sergei. And then we move on. The replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u194	I want to go to the committee first. A committee that has fought corruption as actively as you say for two years in the area of security and defence. If you're so struggling and you're so worried about fighting corruption, the first thing you should do is eliminate the Ucroborprom concert and implement transparent financing of public procurement in the area of security and defence. The second thing you should do is propose a new edition of the State Secrets Act. For people to see what their money is spent on. And third, tell me. Yes, we see here, in the hall, not only in the Supreme Council's backyard, but also in the towers of the Supreme Council, you see the weapons that are produced by Ucrobronprom, it's seen by the whole world. Only he's not seen by our boys on the front. Ask yourself, ‘ Why? ’
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u195	"The will of the people," Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u196	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." As long as there are generals in the government's beds who have been cracking down on military equipment and who have already received two generals, until the populists are able to continue looting the national economy, the military-industrial complex itself, and they'll just redeem themselves when they're judged, we'll do nothing until we do nothing! Legislation is needed to prevent corrupters from being able to redeem themselves. Only then will something move. Or scream, shoot, and at this time millions are stolen from fire trucks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! Now there's Papiev. Colleagues, pay attention! Now there's gonna be a Vinick's lineup, his last name was mentioned. This is going to be the final performance. And let's go to the vote. It's better not to speak now, but a colleague will call into the hall so that we have enough votes to make a decision. Papiev, one minute. Then Vinick, the lineup. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u198	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Again, we are faced with another violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. Look what happened to this bill at all. It is hard for me to imagine that the Law of Ukraine could ever have been introduced with regard to changes to the State Budget, which relates to the State’s debt obligations, which is a parliamentary bill. The government has always been empowered to do so. Today, this law is being considered, and look, there is no finance minister in the government's bed. Dear colleagues, and one more. If you put to the vote the law of Ukraine as a whole, in which there is no conclusion and anti-corruption committee and the Committee on European Integration, why are you doing this? Dear colleagues, let us abide by the Rules: we are voting on the law as a basis, and then, if there are no comments or suggestions by Ukrainian national deputies, only in that case can it be voted on in general. Follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u199	Please give the final statement to MP Winnik, the author of the bill. He was mentioned, so he has the right to a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u200	You know, the head of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee actually suggested that some people from the National Security and Defence Committee control some of the issues of military procurement, but actually informing society about crimes. You know, we have a committee on prevention and anti-corruption. Please tell me, have you had a lot of investigations or even casework, or any questions that might be considered by the Ministry of Defense? Have you written many petitions to law enforcement authorities? As far as I know, there's not much or any. A professional committee has done a great deal to combat corruption. And we have specific facts, specific names and specific ones drawn to responsibility. You know, but in order not to interrupt the next discussion on this subject right now, I have a proposal: the budget provides that any State guarantee will require the approval of the Budget Committee. Yes, of course, sometimes it's done in strict terms. In order to create some comfort to colleagues who work on the budget committee, and there are many colleagues from Self-Help, including, I suggest you make an amendment out of the voice that this consent is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u201	Please, 30 seconds, and make the right proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u202	Here's the deal. Any issue of State guarantees will be accepted by the budgetary committee, as foreseen in the current schedule. But we're introducing a term that has to be done no later than two weeks after the appropriate guarantee is voted in the Cabinet of Ministers no later, I'm sorry. Why should we do that? There's a lot of self-help. If you want to fight corruption, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u203	Colleagues, the author of the bill, amended that the budget committee should approve the increase in funding. Colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, I think we've already spoken in the second round, and we can do it now. My colleagues, so look, I'm explaining the following logic to you, because there are now next bills that are equally important, and we're just entering the second round of discussion. Now I'm going to put the first vote back to the vote. If the arguments that were made were convincing, if we don't get the votes in general, I can put it on the ground, but there's actually no basis to vote. There's just an increase in the size of the loan of 60 billion. And that's why it only makes sense when we accept it in general. I'm asking you to focus and now I'm going to make an offer to go back to the draft Law 4972 and please support me, colleagues. Please support and vote 4972 to return to the proposal for a vote on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[13:40:37]] For 213 213. Then I'll make the next suggestion to accept as a basis. That's a maneuver. Colleagues, the Rules provide what the next proposal is, the next proposal is the basis. Colleagues — Who Supports You? Sergei, I have the Rules of Procedure for the list that I'm proposing. The first is a committee proposal. Then the proposal to return to the committee for reconsideration or to return the subject to the legislative initiative. I put forward the proposal provided for by the Rules, the next one to return to the Committee for review in the first reading. Please support this proposal and return to the committee for reconsideration on the first reading. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[13:42:03]] For 231 Decision taken. The law has been brought back to the committee for further elaboration in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we have very little time left, and I would like to thank you that the following two bills 4911 and 4912, author Irina Fryz, asked to be transferred in connection with the work. And we're going to the next draft of Law 3757 -- this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service. And I'm asking you to support the proposal -- consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[13:43:00]] For 181 And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Antonishtak Andrija Fedorovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u204	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm looking to support this bill to the Opposition Block, to the Self-Help faction, to the Fatherland faction, to the factions that are part of the coalition, there's no politics here. I'll ask you to support Bill 3752. What does the bill mean? Sadly, during the war we adopted some laws from the scenes, and many of them were unworked. Today, think about it. On January 1, 2016, there were 332 widows serving in military formations whose men were killed in the war, and because of failure to work out the law, they do not receive pension insurance for the care of eight-year-olds. These are the people who are under oath who will not go to the President's Administration to rally, who will not come here, to Parliament, to cherish, to defend their rights, because they are military officers. So I ask you very much to support this bill and correct these inaccuracies to the law that we have voted on. I know what the discussion was about, why under eight years old? Because that's what legislation says. We only make two amendments to one sentence, and I would like to take it as a basis as a whole. Because Minfin gives some comments, he says we need to think about where to get the money? Yeah, imagine, 882,000 dollars a month. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u205	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u206	Or we could take it from Kruspirt, from Skrnafta and others, where they pay $40,000 or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u207	Please give the floor to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sergio Pashinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I don't think there can be two thoughts here, this bill needs to be supported and not only that, really, it's the net cost of the 800,000 budget, it's not that number that needs to be debated here, it's our moral obligation to a small number of mothers, men who fall under this law. I would like to refer to the Governing Body of the Supreme Council to put the matter on the ground and in general and to vote without discussion. Why do I ask such a question? We have the next bill, through one -- this is a very important bill on the only register of military personnel, and I ask now not to discuss it, but to vote on the basis as a whole, and immediately to go to the bill on the only register of military personnel. I want to thank all the MPs who generally support all of our bills, which are very relevant and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sergey, unfortunately, we cannot violate the Rules and please register to discuss this bill: two for, two against. If there is no one else, we will vote immediately. Please, Mr. Krivenko, from the Peter Dust Block. Gives the word to Kishkaru's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u210	Thank you, dear fellows, really briefly in order to fulfill the rapporteur's request, really, certainly a useful law that shows people that under any circumstances, God forbid, something will happen to you the state will take care of you, the state thinks about you and this law needs to be maintained in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, National Deputy Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u212	The Self-Help faction supports the proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Indeed, there is nothing to discuss at all, these are the people who have given over the country the most valuable thing that is life. And our duty, and in principle it had to be done a lot earlier, and now it's a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u213	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, National Deputy Ivchenko. Passes the word, I see, to the national deputy Krulk John, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u214	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, which is actually meant to restore justice. Regardless of who is serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, whether it is a man or a woman, the person caring for the child should receive appropriate assistance from the State to support such a minor child. This is certainly a small thing that we can do as parliamentarians, like people who work in the Ukrainian legislature to give to people who have lost their loved ones who have lost their breadwinners. And it is certainly necessary for this bill to be supported by the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u215	Thank you, colleagues. Now we're going to have the final performance. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I give the floor to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u216	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You know, this bill, in my opinion, needs to be adopted and voted not only on a basis, and then voted in general. And I just want to remind you what this is about. There are 332 people in the state of January 1, 2016 who cannot get help to lose a breadwinner because this issue is not settled. And the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are unbalanced, unbalanced, and, in general, they are adopted without regard to all categories of persons. These are 332 people who have actually lost and families have lost a caregiver. When we had the previous Ukrainian Law in mind, there, which concerns tens, or, yes, hundreds of billions of dollars, and now the Cabinet of Ministers, wants to save 800,000 dollars a month. Your Honor, you're not going to be saving where you need to be. Today, Ukrainian families need to be supported — Ukrainian families with Ukrainian children. I ask you to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. First I'm going to put the committee's proposal on the ground, then if there's a general agreement, I'm going to put it all together. I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons – 3752 on the basis of this. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:50:52]] For 239. There was an offer to vote in general. Is it supported? I'm putting in a bill of 3,752 as a whole. Whoever supports this bill as a whole, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:51:21]] For 238. Decision taken. Welcome to the Committee. And, dear fellows, one minute please. We don't have much time left. I would like to report that the following two bills, which were in the first reading: 2,358 national MP Lavrik, requested a transfer of 5062, and the author of Chernobyl Tetjana asked for a transfer. So we're left with four questions: one -- 2,504a has already been discussed, only decision-making, and then four bills in the second reading, where there are 1-2 revisions. Colleagues, we're completely capable of talking and accepting this right now. There's one way to sound it. Therefore, my colleagues, please concentrate, we are now going to consider the draft Law on the Single Register of Militaryly Associated, 2504a, MP. It's already been discussed, we don't have this practice anymore, it's from our previous practice, it's only about making decisions. All the factions are supporting him, everyone's having an expert discussion. All we have to do is vote, colleagues. I ask you to support and participate in the vote. So 2504a, MP, please. completed. Please vote on the basis. Colleagues, please, on the ground. Please vote, please support. [[13:53:07]] For 211 I have information that all factions support. Colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs. All factions actually support this bill, the issue only in the presence. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, colleagues, I'll ask you to come back, but please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to voting for 2,504a, an amended bill that has the general support of all factions. I would like to vote in favour of the return of 2504a, the only national register of military bounds. Please vote for the return, please [[13:54:28]] For 216 My card didn't work, colleagues. That's what happens in the system. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up your jobs. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, is there anyone else you can invite into the hall? Colleagues, we've already entered into his consideration. I ask, colleagues, now from the committee one minute of the importance of this bill. From the committee, please, Pashinsky 1 minute. And please come into the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, this is the law that we've been working on for a year, working for all factions, it's completely out there, it's perfect. But the thing is, according to my information, for example, the members of the budget committee, most of them have already left the hall. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you to put him up after the 16th. It's a bill that's very necessary, that doesn't create any contradictions, it's really supported by all the factions and the MPs, but unfortunately, the second hour and we already have the potential.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u219	Mr. Sergei, I can definitely tell you that there will be an even worse situation in the room at 4:00 than right now. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall right now. We are missing literally seven votes or eight. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm asking you to take a job, come into the hall. Deputies fit? Please come into the hall. One more minute, the author of the Shepherd's Bill, one minute. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, there was in fact one sufficiently hot observation before the bill. This question was even suggested to be withdrawn during the first - reading discussion. The Department of Defense, the General Staff, confirmed yesterday that at the standard they insisted on, they themselves realized that they would not deal with it. What does this mean? This is a synchronization of the border crossing databases to be provided by border guards to the Ministry of Education, Health. It was a warning from the deputies. And that's the question they're taking off. And we agreed that between the first and second readings, we were ready to take it down. If there is a common agreement with this head’s permission, this question can be removed immediately from the first reading. I know that there are some deputies who are willing to support him in the first reading, because there are fears that we will not take him down to the second. So yesterday the General Staff confirmed that. That's the first one. We're talking about the first reading right now. We're voting on the bill in the first reading, and the second one we're still able to clean up, bring it back to normal. And these are the standards that apply to the combination of education bases, and we're ready to take them down in the first reading and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m0.u221	Colleagues, don't leave, please don't leave! Go back to the hall, please. Go back to the hall, colleagues. Colleagues, I'll bet you now. Please take up your jobs. I ask you to move on to making a decision. I emphasize that we only vote as a basis. We need to vote on the basis, go back and vote. Take up jobs, please. I propose to return to the vote for 2,504a worked out. Please vote. Please support the return to the vote. Please vote. Please support the return to the vote. That's just going to be the basis. [[13:58:53]] For 230 We're back, colleagues. I now lay the foundation for the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly bound 2,504a worked on a foundation. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support me. Please support me as a base. [[13:59:22]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, can we have a second reading now or not? These are very short drafts. But don't let us take them down. Look what's going on. Colleagues, 2:00. According to the Rules, we have a period of up to 16 hours. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue the consideration of matters of order. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
