ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues ready to register? Did everyone take their seats? So I'm asking you to register. Please. [[10:05:07]] A total of 337 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow MPs: Victor Ivanovich Baloga. We welcome Victor Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Valery Vitaliovich Karpuntsov Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Welcome. Alexander Igorevich Nechayev. [[Applause]] Dmitry Volodymyrovich Svataša. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, two other Ukrainians were released from Russian captivity yesterday: Gennady Afanasyev and Yuri Soloshenko Over two years. [[Applause]] Hello! [[Applause]] For more than two years, these innocent citizens of Ukraine have been in prison for a fabricated case and have been subjected to torture, but they have courageously endured the trial. I want to remind you that there are still different data on the Kremlin's captives' nets from 29th and, according to Eromain SOS, 38, according to the Kharkiv Law Enforcement Group of political prisoners. Among them is social director Mikola Karpuk, Stanislaw Klich, public director Alexander Kolchenko, film director Oleg Sentsov, and it is important that their eyes look at the people's deputies from the poster that is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We should not forget our political prisoners; we should go one step at a time before they are all released. I want to celebrate the efforts of the Ukrainian side, the President of Ukraine and the entire team that worked to ensure that our brothers could return to Ukraine to their families. Welcome. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. I apologize, I wish to inform you that a meeting has just taken place and that a delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is headed by the President of the Senate in Ukraine with an official visit. Now, the high guest and members of the parliamentary delegation are in the session room, and we welcome them. [[Applause]] We have just had an important meeting, talked about how much our countries have joined together, and agreed that we will unite our efforts to have the Association of Ukraine Agreement signed with the EU. And I look forward to understanding and supporting our country. And on behalf of the entire Parliament, I testify to our support and willingness to cooperate most closely. Thank you, Mr. Head, Mr. President. So we're starting a speech by the people's deputies with proposals, statements and messages. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the recording so that there will be no disappointment that someone has not fallen. Ready? I'd like you to record a statement for the deputies in "different", please. Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u2	Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u3	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I am addressing today all citizens of Ukraine and all who are concerned about Ukraine. It's no good to talk to the authorities, because there's no answer to the questions. Climate change, drought, the drying up of entire forests, the destruction of the flora and fauna of our national wealth, Carpathian, which is unique in Europe, has resulted in massive logging of wood in the mountains, which is unstoppable, regardless of the change of power. One of the main facts of the unceremonious destruction of the flora and fauna of the western forests of Ukraine is the decline of the population, including the trout in the mountain rivers. Unrational and illegal farming activities in the Carpathians. Thus, for example, with the violation of all laws and regulations governing the use, reproduction of water bioresources, regulation of fishing, forestry for a long time by officials of the "Sculpture Forest Farm" of the Ivano-Frankiv Forest Reprocessing Complex, illegal mining is carried out. And if you're right, it's a deforestation that has a negative impact on the bioresources in the local river. On more than one occasion, these people have been fined, held accountable from this military woodshed, and numerous fines have been imposed. But today the matter is not moved. This does not remind you of what happened in the Lviv area in a garbage dump, fined, banned, and then tragically. We really need to get this deforestation to the point where there are tragedies, environmental tragedies in our region. In spite of fines, warnings, and regulations to suspend logging, the Scolivian military logging continues to blow the cut trunks right down the stream of the Boutilla River, destroying the fish. Today we need to understand that Carpathian is no longer a forest, the Carpathians are naked. This is a national park. And please tell us, are these European values, where do we want to go to Europe? And here's what I'm going to say about European values. Today, there is a mass destruction of natural resources. You see what's happening in the Plains and Zitomir region, the whole area is affected by amber mining. You'll see what's going on today in eastern Ukraine. Today's operation, the military operation has caused us to lose our natural resources in that area. Today, all these resources are being distributed across the border. There are specific addresses, there are specific officials. Why does the authorities not hold them accountable? Because we have power today, tomorrow it will not be an authority, let it think of Ukraine today. I'd like to focus your attention on how we're losing our land. The West Bug is crossing the border of Ukraine. Lack of work has led us to lose 10 hectares of land, and we're going to lose another 5,000 hectares, which is the border with Poland. Whether these European values will give us the opportunity to become members.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u4	Mikola Skorik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u5	May I give the floor to the national deputy, Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! On the day that a contact group meets again in Minsk and tries to resolve the issue of a peaceful settlement of the Donbas conflict, I cannot say the following. Of course, yesterday we witnessed what we could and could agree on. Yesterday, they returned to Ukraine, Soloshenko and Afanasyev. But I'm surprised, it's probably the rarest case when conflicting parties turn Ukrainians into Ukrainians. Tell me, Glisczynska, who gave birth to a child in prison, is a Ukrainian citizen. How is that possible? We must give this political and, of course, legal assessment of why our State has this attitude towards its own citizens. But I hope that we will find a way out of a very difficult crisis. What are the options today to get people to put a machine gun down so they won't fight? Option three. The State has the right to do so, by force, through constitutional means. But such an attempt has already been made. The number of people officially killed is around 10,000. And we know that there are many and many more. This option is stale, non-human and we have no right to use it further. Another option is to make a deal. We have signed the Minsk Agreements, which unfortunately we do not implement ourselves. There's a question here, the person who signed any agreements, doesn't implement them, he's insolvent, he's broke. Today, unfortunately, we must note that our President is insolvent and bankrupt. There is another option: to freeze the conflict, and that is what must be done today. To freeze people on Donbass, to block them in the Crimea, but they're our citizens, they're our people. That we're blocking ourselves? That's real separatism. The authorities fear everything, the authorities fear even the Investigative Commissions Act. Today we demand to unlock the social guarantees of our citizens at Donbassa, to allow the free movement of our citizens to the Crimea, to pass the law on investigative commissions, in order to eventually investigate the crimes of power, power, which today is a bankruptcy and a criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u7	Barna Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u8	Dear friends, the reform of the legal system, and the judicial system, are paramount. First of all, to start planting corrupters, disgruntled officials. Because until a corrupt thief is planted, there is no point in reforming and they will not be introduced. Therefore, it was illogical to deny Parliamentary colleagues the disregard for judicial reform, to ignore the reform of the prosecutor's office and to appoint Henprocuror. I ask you to draw the right conclusions from this and to go to the cooperation, cooperation, so that thieves, corruptionists and separatists like the Opole are sitting in prison, who are now screaming and claiming to be violating some rights, but first of all, we need to pay attention to the fact that, thanks to their separatist moods, Ukrainianophobic moods, what we have right now in the East is doing what we have. Thanks to them, I call out "Putin, save us!" We have a Russian boot on the territory of our land. Thanks to your non - Ukrainian activities, they raised a category of Ukrainian phobias and haters living in Ukraine. And now the Ukrainian people, believe me, are gonna clean up all the shit you left behind, but with that shit, you're gonna go. So the first task of the law enforcement system is to take on these Ukrainian phobics who are still on our Ukrainian land and yet open their faces in the Supreme Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u9	Vasile Golovajev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u10	Good day to you all. Vassili Gulyaev, 140th constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. With great ambitions, we are today not a comment on vocational education. Today, the vocational and technical education in Ukraine is just beginning to come to light and everyone is pretending to be blind. Recently, the President has enforced laws that have at least partially allowed for the financing of PTS. We pretend that there is nothing, but to date, children do not receive scholarships, nor can they even feed the poor, the orphans and the children who lack food. Teachers don't get paid, they cover roads, people in despair, and what to do next, nobody knows. Parents don't know how to give their children and where to put them, because no one knows if they'll open up or open up after the holiday. These are especially rural areas where the PTU is located, where there is a very large problem to date. What's going on? The local government doesn't have money, the state doesn't give money, and we've got a dead end. The Rebirth Party Group, if we don't get through today, today or tomorrow we can't beat the President's veto, the Rebirth Party Group is collecting signatures to the Constitutional Court and will address this issue. Moreover, article 53 of the Constitution clearly states that funding for PTS should be provided by the State and not by local authorities. We hand over all these powers to the places and say that decentralization of power, of course, is not decentralization of power. We're just paying off: PTU pays for everything else. I think the MPs will have enough power to vote and lift the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u11	Alexander Kodol, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u12	Alexander Kodolah. I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u13	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Now I want to address not the National MPs, but I want to address the Ukrainian people. Consider yesterday’s vote on the inclusion of the daily law, the amended Law on Illustration, the enlarged Law on Illustration, which was worked on a request and with the experts of the Venice Commission. Think of how interesting this was to vote and how much it showed the foundation of a powerful mob movement that wants to save, to turn back and make a rematch of Yanukovich and his team. Now, let's think about where former President Janukovic himself is right now -- he's in Rostov, in the Russian Federation. Where are the representatives of his team? Also, in the Russian Federation, Mr. Portnow is actually working at Gazprom. Let us consider who these persons are working for today, and who were they working for when they had the opportunity to rule the Ukrainian State? So I'm officially telling you, I'm officially saying that those people who didn't vote yesterday to illustrate Yanukovic and his team, to allow them to go back to the Ukrainian state, to rule the Ukrainian state, are criminals, they're separatists, they're people who work for Putin, who work for the Russian Federation, who want to destroy the Ukrainian state, and they work for them, and they're disrupting these processes. I'll tell you that yesterday's statement by the Opposition Block, and more specifically by the Party of the Regions, that Justice Minister Paul Petrenko is to resign, we will be wearing this statement as an order, as an indication that we are going the right way, that we are not just fighting the Yanukovic rematch and his team, that we are protecting the Ukrainian people, protecting Ukrainian independence, protecting against the Russian aggressor that these rematchists are working on. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u14	Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u15	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to inform all the country that the political crisis, the economic crisis, the governance crisis, at least on the capital level, is flourishing in a wild flower. Unfortunately, in Kiev today, we don't see the actions of power, we don't see the presence of power, both central and local. We're seeing a rematch of illegal oblivions right now, and all the walls that were at Yanukovich's are now continuing. What is more, even those obstacles, which at Yanukovich’s colossal efforts, with blood, were then stopped, are now being prepared for continuation. First of all, I am referring to the constructions in the so - called buffer zone of Kyiv Sofia — monuments of global significance, the street of Potter, 17/23. This construction, which was demonstrated by the people of Yanukovic, stopped because of public pressure, is now preparing for what will be continued, put into service and will be sold apartments there. Why? Because the people of the President's Administration, because the people of this Parliament, from the most influential faction of the day, have entered the founders of that developer's company, and they're fine. Of course, at the level of Parliament, we try to resist that. Interfractional "For Kiev" merger! Two days ago, a meeting took place, invited all those involved in the illegal forgetfulness of central government officials, the Kiev authorities, and managed to achieve some results. In particular, there's been a halt to the construction of the Mikilsky Liberty, but it's clear that the point is that we can't solve this systemic problem. And we asked Mr. Groysman to create an interregional, interdisciplinary commission from various authorities. Why so? Because there's a complex problem: aunts, sales police, prosecutors, ministries, inspections -- they're all responsible for the same problem, they need to be tackled in a comprehensive way. It is clear that Mr. Klitschko himself will not solve this problem. That's why we're asking the Ukrainian national MPs to hear the kyan in order to finally create such an organ. And one more thing I want to say, obviously, is that with this Kiyevrada, with this kind of Kiev power, we can't go far. Obviously, at least next year, we need to take over this power. Kiev has neither an adequate strategy nor a master plan, which includes the adjacent territory of Kiev at the level of agglomeration, there is no, after all, a new statute. All these assignments are sabotaged by both those appointed by the Kiev authorities and central authorities. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u16	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u17	So I urge the central authority to intervene in this situation, and perhaps we all need to prepare ourselves to overcome this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u18	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Eugene Konovalec, whose 125th birthday was celebrated yesterday by all the well-known Ukrainians, wrote: "As iron turns into steel in the fire, so in the struggle the nation becomes a nation." That is why the faction of the Radical Party continues to fight for the Ukrainians against the destructive corruption policy of today’s authorities. The fourth week in a row, the patriotic opposition faction of the Radical Party in its entirety blocks the parliamentary rostrum with the following requirements. First, investigating corruption, offshors, and abuse of power. It's nonsense, when millions of Ukrainians are barely ending when millions of Ukrainians actually see them being robbed by the authorities, but we see the President of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the President's business environment, the senior officials of our state today are offshoreing their assets, not paying taxes, they're doing corruption, they're robbing Ukrainian citizens. The Radical Party cannot silently watch the authorities rob Ukrainians. That's why we demand from Parliament, from an impotent, unfortunately, parliament, where we see a coalition, a broad coalition of Panamanian patriots, we demand the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on the investigation of corruption and the offshores of senior officials. When I look at my colleagues who are joining the coalition of Panamanian patriots today, you remind me of Janukovich's gang. She kept her mouth shut, and they also thought that they had taken God’s beard, that their authority was forever. In summary, they were taken out. Likewise, disrespectful colleagues from the Coalition of Panamanian Patriots will take you out for robbing the state. Here's our request. We today have appealed to the court to challenge the decision of the NCREKP to increase the cost of living and accommodation services for Ukrainian citizens from July 1st. Today, in the Committee on Fuel and Energy, we will be looking into the decision to recalculate the price of gas for the population. Today the price of gas for citizens is too high, at least three times. This is the price of Ukrainians for the corruption we now have in power. So we demand that the government's decision to cancel the tax price on gas for citizens be lifted. We will, through the court, seek to abolish the decision of the NCREKP to increase the cost of residential services for citizens. The Radical Party faction will fight and call upon all opposition forces to join forces in the struggle for Ukrainian rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u20	Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u21	Good afternoon. Please give the floor to Deputy Dmitri Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u22	Dear Andrei Vladimirovich! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, we demand that the Law 3624 on the urgent elections of the Lviv citizen of Sadov be put into the Hall immediately this week. Today, I think that both Parliament and the Ukrainian people have become aware of what this character is. Yes, for the past few years, with the help of polytechnologists, psychiatrists who taught him to roll his eyes and fold his hands, he was able to deceive some of the Ukrainians who voted for him. The Self-Help Party, without much position or ideology, has been teaching us to live in Parliament for two years. Why don't you go and help Gardener deal with the garbage? By the way, in recent elections, local self-help elections received just over 14 per cent in the Lviv region. And that's not a fantastic result. And the result is because in Lviv Sadov they call "Mr. Fate" and "fate" not by the word "fate," but by the percentage of the corruption that he gets from everything. The garden is always lying, twisting like a chameleon. When he was lying when he was telling the truth, it is not clear that when he joined the Communist Party and he was a member of the Communist Party, or now that he is working for NATO. When he was lying, in 2006, when he promised to build a sarcophagus on the Gribowitz dump, the whole country saw the video. And now, 10 years later, when he says it's all his fault, it's not him. In Europe, the mayor should have just forgotten his future career, had to resign, but Sadowa did not. When he was lying, when he came to the Horn of Curve and called for the mayor's reelection, he condemned the police, who tried not to commit pogroms and organized in the foyer a so-called "People's Watch" from the local bandits, to say the word; or now that he was walled up by the police from the lions who came to look him in the eye, and that was his election. I'm sorry and Seminchenko's very high, I confirm that I saw it, they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop, dear colleagues. I ask you to stop again, colleagues. As an elder, please disprove. An elder named Yuri Bereza, please stop the situation in the left corner. [[B in m in s a l in]] I recommend, by the way, not making conscious provocations, not making deliberate provocations in the hall. Please, I'm asking you to stop. Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop fighting, please take your jobs, please take your jobs, your colleagues. I urge you not to provoke opposition in the hall, and my special appeal to the Opposition Block, by your statements, you provoke me to stand up in the room. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, please. Aleksy’s River [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't let you finish. And because, colleagues, you're in the Ukrainian Parliament. When you want to say things about Ukrainian affairs, when you're doing anti-Ukrainian propaganda, you're going to the Parliament of the Russian Federation, go and say them! Anyone who wants to listen to Russian propaganda has the opportunity to listen by including Russian television channels that are coming. The Ukrainian Parliament is for the protection of Ukrainian interests, not the interests of the occupying state. So I ask you very much: In your comments, respect the deputies of others who are in the hall, and respect Ukraine! Please don't provoke any opposition in the hall. I have repeatedly addressed you because of the very predictable outcome of such opposition. So, colleagues, Rybchin. If he's not in the hall, the next one's in. Dmitri Kolesnikov is next. And Dudenkov, Dudenkov's next. Debtenko, yes, I'm sorry. Dusk's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, my statement is not about any political debate. My statement is based on the macroeconomic indicators that exist in our State. And this is the result of an existing coalition, the result of the current power. Because the opposition has been removed from the process of both parliamentary control and decision-making. It was obvious that the fiscal decentralization had been carried out by the fiasco. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is currently in the process of lifting legislative initiatives that have been consulted by the International Monetary Fund in particular. In particular, Parliament has finally abolished the taxation of pensions. At the same time, the current power tells us that effective tax reforms are needed. We regret now that no tax reforms are being implemented, that the current system remains an old, fiscal, corrupt component of the value added tax — that is all that remains. The manipulations of the VAT electronic administration system, which are carried out by the supervisory authorities, are simply horrifying, their scale. That is, that declaration on simplifying the administration and minimization of all value-added tax theft schemes was not addressed. Unfortunately, budgetary decentralization has led directly to the opposite effect, when the financial base of the territorial communities has been deprived, in fact these territorial communities have been entrusted with additional responsibilities to finance kindergartens, schools, 1-4 classes of nutrition, vocational and technical education, we are in fact destroying it now, as local governments do not have sufficient resources to support it. Tax reform and the tax system are clearly not aimed at stimulating the real sector of production. Here the representative of the People's Front said that all the actions of the coalition were aimed at the interests of the people. And then I have a question: does the people's interests require double or triple the utility tariffs for centralized water supply, heat supply, electricity? Did the people's interests require a 300 per cent devaluation of Ukraine's national currency, when 8 bracelets per dollar, now 25 to 26 bracelets per dollar? Does the people’s interests require the retention of 15 per cent of the pension workers? Did the people demand the abolition of benefits under the State Budget Act 2016? One that voted in particular was the representatives of those factions that did not form part of the coalition. The benefits of miners, children of war, war veterans, disabled persons, children of work were abolished. The rights of residents of Donbass are discriminated against and not paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u25	And the closing statement by Gus Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u26	Glory to Ukraine! Goose, 19th constituency, Volin. I want to speak to the President of Ukraine, and to the leaders of our state's law enforcement agencies. It's been two years since Maidan, these games with these saucers that killed 120 people in Maidan, and we're about to play. This shit's lifting your head! This shit is dictated to us today! This scarf was not responsible for the Mayan killings today, for the beginning of the war! Mr. President, you play with them, you cover them, you don't put them in jail, and today this shit dictates conditions. This scarf opens its mouth and tells us who we were supposed to fire, whom we were not supposed to release. So I'm talking to Attorney General Lucenk, the head of the B.S.A., the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the head of the N.A.U.U.U.U.U.U.U.U., and I'm going to start dealing with these podiums immediately. Two years later, there are no consequences for them. Look at Wilcule, look at Shufrich, and today they, driven by Putinim, open their mouths, dictate conditions. If the law enforcement system doesn't do what the people require, it won't bring responsibility to the murderers of Maidan, to those who financed the aunts, to those who started the war on Donbass, the situation will come out of control. And their people will punish us along with them. So I ask that the President of Ukraine, so that all of us here will turn to the law enforcement system and not play with the regionals, put them in prisons because it will be too late. And they, by stockpiling resources with TV channels, their financiers in Vienna Firthash, Ljovcken, Ahmethov, who is sitting here in Concha-Sleep, actually throwing away billions, will do everything to get back to power. That's why I don't think we all have to let rematch. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, before the conclusion of our discussion, I very much ask and urge all the national deputies who are in the hall to treat each other with the utmost respect. Dear colleagues, when there are warnings, we can turn to law enforcement authorities. Mr. Igor, by name, you know that the Rules give you a replica. So just avoid it. One minute to one person is a replica. The Society, or I stop talking, has run out of time, or one person. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting an end to this discussion. Let's get to the point. I'm not trading. Dear colleagues, in order not to allow animosity in the hall, to prevent a fight in the hall, I close part of the discussion because the time spent for it is exhausted. And, Your Honor, colleagues, we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. I ask everyone to calm down, take up jobs. We are now considering the ratification of international agreements, very important issues. And I'm looking at the draft Act ratifying the Protocol amending the Agreement establishing the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre (number 0084). My colleagues, I'm about to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to come into the Chamber of Deputies and take up jobs. I ask you to take up your jobs and take part in the vote. I'm voting on a motion for a simplified procedure for draft law 0084. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[10:42:58]] For-149 149. Someone didn't make it. Fellows, once again, be more careful. I'm once again proposing a reduced procedure of 0084. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please vote. Short-term procedure, please. [[10:43:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maxim Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u28	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre was established in 1993 by the Agreement between Ukraine, the United States, Sweden and Canada. In 1997, the Protocol to this Agreement replaced Sweden as the founders of the UNTC. Throughout the years, UNTC has become the largest external donor of Ukrainian science, making scientific projects in Ukraine funded about $240 million from the United States, with some 18,000 Ukrainian scientists participating in these projects. Today, UNCTAD is one of the tools that allows us to maintain our high-tech level, allowing us to help our integration into European research space, allowing our scientists to get new modern equipment. The NCC Treaty Act was ratified in 2001. It is now being submitted by the President of Ukraine to the ratification of the 1997 Protocol, which replaces Sweden with the European Association of Founders. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Deputies have developed a draft decision that the government is tasked with negotiating with our partners, with the aim of modernizing the agreement in view of the fact that the original goal of NTC has already been largely achieved, but the further work of NTC is very important for all of us. And finally, by voting for this, the people's deputies, you're going to vote for the money for those Ukrainian scientists who are forced to work today for two or three days a week and who are now protesting against the Cabinet -- it's not a political issue, it's a matter of strategic future science, I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u29	Thank you very much. From the committee to the word, Vladimir Ariev is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to ratify the Protocol to amend the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, which is to amend the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. In particular, as part of the expansion of the spectrum of individuals, workers of the UNCC and its projects, Ukraine is granted equivalent status to that granted to administrative and technical staff, according to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Education and Science of Derivyan, the implementation of the provisions of Ukraine’s law does not require additional, material and financial costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. Following its consideration at its meeting on 14 March 2016, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, subject to the simultaneous adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the initiation of a negotiating process for amending the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, which includes the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to initiate a negotiating process for amending the Treaty on the Establishment of UNCTAD, as amended by the 1993 Protocol on Amendments to the 1993 Agreement. Please consider the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to record two for two for one, two for the other, please. Svetlana Zlatchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has indeed considered this issue and has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the protocol for amending the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, subject to the simultaneous adoption by the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 0084-P on the opening of the negotiating process for amending the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, which has been processed and agreed upon by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education, and contains the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to initiate a negotiating process to amend the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre with a view to bringing it into line with the current and security interests of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Opanasenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Oleni Stotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u35	Colleagues, the Self-Help faction of course supports protocol ratification. The only thing I would like to pay attention to right now is to look to the authorities responsible for the necessity of bringing, more specifically, the validity of the existing Treaty today, which was put into effect on 15 March 2001 concerning the granting of a commitment for Ukraine to the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. Today, it did not become effective, but it did not become effective because it actually binds itself to the fact that it will become effective if the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre is adopted in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. To date, this statute has not been brought into line since then. That's why I'm asking the authorities responsible for bringing this statute into force. The Self-Help faction generally supports ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u36	In five minutes, the decision will be made. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of their readiness to make a decision. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Boyk Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u38	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, our faction has always advocated supporting draft laws that are good for the Ukrainian people and for our nation. But today I want to talk about something else. We're willing to support any ratification that will do us good, but we're taking firm action against that vakhanalia that you, Andry Volodymyrovich, have violated and started in the Supreme Council Hall. You have no right to block the mouth of our faction's deputies while at the same time allowing our deputies to be insulted by our political opponents. You're just like the others who ended up in the Presidency today. I'll think about that in a little while you'll be back in the hall and you'll be feeling again what you've done today with the deputies of our faction. So I think that either you're going to be doing the same thing with all the MPs, or we're going to be looking for other ways to get the attention of the international community that the speaker of Parliament is taking over and is a speaker of only a single piece of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u39	For the final word, Maksim Vitaliovich is given. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u40	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council, the high-ranking national deputies! I would like to point out that the statute of the UNCC was brought into conformity with Ukrainian intellectual property legislation on 14 June 2002. All intellectual rights to products financed under the UNCC are vested in Ukrainian scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. We can move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'll take care of it. I'll run a rating vote to see if we can make a decision. Please come into the hall and take your seats. So please take part in the rating vote, your honors. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:54:34]] For-179 179, colleagues. Well, give me some advice on how to be in a situation where we have a major ratification under consideration, and we don't have any votes to make decisions. Colleagues, let's talk about how we should be in this situation. Please, Anatoly Matvienko from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! I'm also going to the Opposition Block, and I'm going to Mr. Oleg Lachka's Radical Party. We have to understand that it's plus 10 percent to finance our science, which is still breathing into incense. It's not a political issue. I'm asking you, it's national interest, it's Ukrainian interest, and it's supposed to be sacred and priority. I understand that there are political motives today, but let's support it. I propose, Mr. Andrey, that we put it again on the ratings vote. If, indeed, political discords that prevent us from uniting in the hall do not give us enough votes, then there is a suggestion to vote on another day, for we cannot fail to vote in favour of ratifying the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u43	Who else would want to share in the discussion? Siewakovsky, please, 1 minute. But let's make suggestions on how to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education unanimously supported this decision. If we are to think about the future with you, we must unite and vote in favour. In fact, as they said, $10 million today, this is 250 million dollars, which means 10 percent of the science budget in general, which is budgeted by our scientists, who now have a strike near the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I ask everyone to unite now and vote in favour of this decree. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal for us to discuss what ratifications were, and then put them to the vote today, gathering MPs. Does everyone accept such an offer? Discuss all ratifications, then mobilize MPs and vote. If this is accepted and there is no objection in the room, we will move on to the next question. This is 0084-P, a draft regulation for initiating a negotiation process to amend the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. There is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Colleagues who support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[10:57:54]] For a hundred and Decision taken. From the committee to the report, Vladimir Ariev is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u46	Honorary colleagues, as already noted in the committee’s previous decision, this bill, this draft decree, is fully linked to the previous one under consideration, 0084. Bill 0084-P, he proposes to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with initiating negotiations to amend the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, set up in Kiev on 25 October 1993. Here is a clear position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, which includes the position of the Central Intelligence Authority of the State in the field of economic security, the Ukrainian Security Service, and is that, taking into account the significant changes in the political and economic situation in Ukraine since the creation of the former Soviet Union in 1993, as well as the lack of relevance to the work of scientists in the field of strategic offensives, the development of weapons of mass destruction of the former Soviet Union, it is necessary to carry out an interdisciplinary audit of the results of the work of UNCTAD in Ukraine and the relevance of the objectives and tasks of such activities to the current conditions and interests of the country's scientific and technological sphere. And including holding a round of negotiations on changes before, as already noted, on a protocol of introduction. about the creation of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Center. And these negotiations are proposed by this decision to hold the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as soon as possible. I believe that these two projects: Decrees 0084-P and Bill 0084 should be considered and voted together. Both bills are related, and the committee considers that their approval is only appropriate in case of parallel voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u47	Thank you, dear fellows. Please record two for, two for against. Svetlana Zlatchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u49	You need a card or you don't turn on the microphone. Let me give the next word and then you, Mrs. Irina. Okay? Thank you. Please, Volodymiro Mikhailovich Litwin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u50	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The committee considered these two bills. The committee's proposal for Bill 0084, regarding the ratification of the protocol, is positive. I'd like to ask the MPs to go back and vote, because it's about funding scientific institutions and supporting scientists, it's on the average, if I'm right, up to 10 percent of the funding that science receives in Ukraine. I have a question about the draft decision to initiate the negotiation process. We've talked about that there are some warnings here that there will be no issue of non-funding until the proposals for changes that the Ukrainian side will insist on are worked out. Clearly, this document is needed, but it can be done in the working order. And I think there's nothing that prevents the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our services, from making appropriate proposals, from discussing them in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and from submitting to the partners who are parties to the Protocol on the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. I have the impression that we are often looking for work and creating problems in an empty place. I would ask you not to make decisions that might block the implementation of the agreement on the activities of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Nestor Schuffrich. Then it's over. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Our faction has been determined by the vote itself, although we certainly support ratification itself, but on the other hand, it is difficult to work in a parliament where images are groundless, groundless and unwarranted are the norm. I have a great experience, perhaps one of the greatest experiences, maybe ten other colleagues of my national deputies in Ukraine have worked with me so much, but I'll be honest with you, we've never allowed such accusations and insults to occur in the hottest times. Bandit and so on is an unacceptable word in this House. And by the way, I studied my colleague's speech carefully, and he didn't blame anyone. And if there was a familiar word that expressed such emotions, it was a problem for someone who could not contain such emotions. Any charge has to be brought before a court, and in Parliament, it's all equal. And we have to provide the opportunity for normal work and discussion whether we like the position of our opponents or not. I don't like much of the position of our colleagues either. But to colleague Igor, who has spoken and aroused our emotions about the reverse word that we were entitled to under the Rules rather than receive, I would like to address one thing. You know a politician like Yacenjuk Arseny Petrovich. These are all the questions you have announced today, and you will receive specific answers. And I think today is going to be the time when we're going to tell the truth about everything that's going on in this room. Be careful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u53	I'll give it to you now, Mrs. Irina, and I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, even now under the Rules I should have ruled out the speech. I rarely, in rare cases, allow this moment when I'm breaking up. I usually know and respect the MP's right to speak. I have been in opposition for many years, and I know how important it is for everyone to be able to express their position. I know how important it is that the people brought here, the guards of some MPs in the previous summons, are simply to mutilate the MPs in that room. And it was all there was. We remember all of this. That was not long ago, Mr. Nestor, and you must remember that. But I stopped the word because it led to opposition. When the opposition starts in the hall, my duty, my task is to stop the discussion as much as possible. I rarely use this method. But if I see opposition, I'll still use it. Dear colleagues, let's all calm down now, we have questions of international importance, questions on which we have no votes. Let's put our emotions aside, we had emotional flashes, it was wrong, it was something we should leave in the past. Let us now unite around the international agreements that we are considering. And I give my word to Irina Lucenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, let's go back to our science and to the question that we're considering today. For us, it's extremely important at a time when the economy is experiencing the best of times and science is being financed in a bad way, and we have to admit that. So the support provided and provided by the Ukrainian Science and Technology Center for our science is significant. It allows the minds, the brains that remain in Ukraine and form today's science not to go abroad and leave this potential in Ukraine. But at the same time, the significant changes that have occurred in the political and economic situation in Ukraine and the world since the creation of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, which was in 1993, particularly the changes in the subject of the work that scientists in the field have been working on -- attention! - strategic offensive weapons and weapons. and the development of weapons of mass destruction of the former Soviet Union under this treaty and the loss of its relevance, our committee has come to the conclusion of the need to initiate a negotiation process between the parties to the agreement with a view to changing its position in accordance with Ukraine's modern national and security interests, including in the context of updating the objectives of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. So again, our proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we support and ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement establishing the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. But at the same time, please support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to initiate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u55	Please, how much time? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u56	At the same time, it is the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to adopt a Supreme Council regulation on the initiation of a negotiating process to amend the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre and to ratify the Protocol to amend the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. I ask the hall to respond consciously and seriously to this proposal and to remember our teachings. Please support these two decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Let me remind you: we have decided to discuss and then to vote. We have half an hour to maximize the mobilization of all deputies and in about half an hour, we'll move on to making decisions. And that's why I'm asking everyone to do the best we can to mobilize MPs for this time. From the government, I give the word to Maxim Vitaliovich Strysi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u58	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council, the high-ranking national deputies! UNCC was created in 1993 to support scientists working in the former U.S.S.R. During this time, de facto, the direction of its activity has changed and this is fixed by a decision of the board of directors. UNCC is already supporting projects that are wide-ranging and supporting young Ukrainian scientists who would never work in the USSR. But indeed, the primary objective of the 1993 Agreement is that our partners are now ready for such negotiations. Because of this, the draft decree prepared by the National Deputies in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Science responds to the needs of time. And the government is asking to support it along with the ratification of the protocol itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the draft decree 0084. We move on to the next issue of ratification 0098, this is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport. The report invites the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Rominsky Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the Dmitry Volodymyrovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u60	I'm sorry, I didn't put a reduced procedure to the vote. Colleagues, there is a proposal to consider the issue of short-term ratification. Please take up your jobs and support your offer. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:11:54]] For 168 Decision taken. And please report to Dmitri Volodymyrovich Romansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport is proposed for your consideration. The bill has been drafted to carry out the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport, signed on 28 March 2013 in Budapest. The agreement aims at improving the legal and regulatory framework for Ukrainian-Hungarian transport relations and improving the conditions for freight transport between Ukraine and Hungary. According to the agreement, the transport of goods by car from the common border to the combined transport terminal is carried out without permission to transport by road, as well as in Ukraine without payment of travel fees, and in Hungary without payment of taxes to traffic congregations, facilities. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport will ensure a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and Hungary. It will create favourable conditions for improving transport connections between the two countries, help to develop international cooperation in transport and business relations. Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Timish Grigory Ivanovich is invited to the report, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered a draft ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on international combined transport (register No. 0098) (since 11.05 of the current year). This bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came from the fact that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the Agreement. The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on international combined or so - called mixed transports was signed on 28 March 2013 in Budapest. In accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement, the carriage of goods by road from joint control to the combined transport terminal designated by the competent authorities of the contracting parties and located at a distance of not more than 60 km from the common border of the contracting States. In the reverse direction, however, combined transport is carried out without permission to transport by road, as well as in Ukraine without payment by road and, according to Hungary, without payment of taxes on motor vehicles. Article 14 of the Agreement provides that the Agreement shall take effect 60 days from the date of receipt by diplomatic channels of the latest report on the implementation of contractual agreements by the parties to the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the treaty. The ratification of the agreement does not entail a correction of the existing legislation of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusions of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption and the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate. The agreement can be ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u64	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u65	Please vote. The deal can be backed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, transport is not a political issue, and we must all unite to support the bill. Because we signed a two-way agreement between governments in 2013 and it's only today that we have to ratify. I ask that this be done as soon as possible, since this will confirm Ukraine's agreement to comply with the provisions of the signed intergovernmental bilateral instrument and the completion of the internal procedure by Ukraine regarding the validity of the agreement. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Of course, the bill should be supported. And today the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be organized in order for international acts to be ratified. I would like to point out that the factions of our faction have repeatedly, despite the opposition to power in general, supported dozens of bills, and more than that, they have gone solely on the basis of the votes that our faction has given us, because we can put aside ambitions when it comes to making decisions that are positive for Ukraine and will stimulate the raising of the standard of living of our citizens. Although these bills have been decreasing in recent times. Ukraine must be very responsible for fulfilling its external obligations, so the ratification issue must be implemented. Today we need to look for an opportunity to unite this hall. And I would like to remind the honourable chairman who is the author of the Law on Special Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Head, other national deputies, factions leaders, you have signed an excellent law. Today, the principle must be that in the parliamentary-presidential Republic we have the opportunity to conduct qualified investigations as representatives of Parliament, that is, as representatives elected by the people of Ukraine. I demand and appeal to you. Set out tomorrow at the vote, the Law on Investigative Commissions. Ukraine has the right to finally implement the constitutional norm and Parliament must become a parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u70	Solovy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u71	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, it is clear that we must support all the bills aimed at strengthening cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union and, in particular, the bill on international combined transport between Ukraine and Hungary. This is an important bill that allows the legal field to simplify transport procedures. But besides, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity that there is a profile minister of infrastructure present to also draw attention to the fact that laws are passed, but these laws on our customs and at the checkpoints are not implemented. If you go to any point of entry with Poland, Hungary or Romania today, you'll see 10 kilometers of people there. Like passengers crossing the border by light transport. I'm not talking about the queues we have today, our freight vehicles. Today, the work of customs checkpoints is completely unsatisfactory, and the only thing people feel is total humiliation. And so, in addition to adopting these laws, we need to properly organize the work of the Border Service, organize the work of the Customs Service, so that our citizens can easily and legally cross the crossing points. In addition, we should require our partner countries, with which we sign the respective agreements, to quickly skip and document our Ukrainian citizens, not to do what they do. So in addition, I am addressing the government immediately to take steps to address the problem of kilometres of customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u72	Thank you. So, the colleagues, all those who wanted to discuss it, did they speak? There are no more speakers, so let's move on to the next ratification bill. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus on Air Connection (0099). Colleagues, there is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. I ask you to vote, please support. Colleagues, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. 0099, simplified procedure. [[11:22:30.]] For-162 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Rominsky Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble national MPs. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Air Communications is proposed for your consideration. The bill has been drafted with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the agreement to take effect. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Air Connection, done on 8 November 2012 in the city of Nicosia. The agreement is aimed at creating a bilateral contractual legal framework for international air connection between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. The conclusion of the agreement will enable the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level to implement and activate bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus, further development of cooperation in aviation, the establishment of active links and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u74	I invite a member of the Committee on European Integration, Jurinec Oksani Vasilivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u75	Pass the word to Masorini.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues. Massorina, please. Helen Masorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u77	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Air Connection, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 0099 of 12.05. In 2016. And I decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee were of the opinion that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary to conclude the agreement. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will enable further development of cooperation in aviation, further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. The ratification of the agreement does not entail a correction of existing or the adoption of new legislative acts by Ukraine. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption and of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Export Authority, which stresses that the agreement can be ratified. I'd like you to rub the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u79	Please, the word of Sergey Kiral. Please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! We are now in order of the day three similar agreements: both Cyprus and Greece, and there is another country. I'd like to pay attention, of course, to support them, but I'd like to pay attention and point out something else. Unfortunately, this is half the size, because I would like to remind you that in May 2014 a general comprehensive Agreement on common aviation space with the European Union was prepared and initialled. Unfortunately, so far, we have a third minister of infrastructure, and this agreement is not signed. What does this covenant require, what does it do? By agreement on common aviation space with the European Union, Ukraine joins in a common aviation space with EU countries. And it's only under this condition that we're opening up the possibility for European companies that are registered in European jurisdictions, lowcost companies to fly to Ukraine without having to register here, without having to get permission to fly from the State Service, without having to deal with our corruption, with our legislation, with our jurisdiction. They go to the cities and arrange for our airports to cooperate. Only with this agreement signed will we be able to invite millions-million tourists, millions-million entrepreneurs to Ukraine, and this, including, will contribute to the full implementation of the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. This is what Deputy Solovay said about kilometres of border lines, that we do not have effective railway connections today, and that we do not have a common aviation space agreement, to Ukraine today is an impossible thing to do. So I insist that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u81	Romanyuk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u82	May I have a word with Corchik, Vitalia?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u83	In agreement with a self-help colleague, I want to say that the ratification and adoption of Ukraine's draft law will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism for international implementation, the activation of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus, will contribute to the further development of cooperation in the field of aviation, the improvement of business relations, and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. When I say in a simple language, I'm going to say that if we want more international airlines to come to us, we need to ratify such agreements with every country, and we also want to work on the general air space, about what a self-help colleague said. And I'm asking the minister to keep the same question for you on the day-to-day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u84	Thank you. So are they still willing to speak on this project after this ratification? The discussion was concluded. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. This is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Air Transport (No.1100). There's a suggestion that we consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. I'm voting on a motion for a reduced procedure for draft law 0100. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please, let's vote. [[11:31:03]] For a hundred and 159 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Romania's Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on air transport is proposed. The bill has been drafted with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the agreement. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Air Transport, done on 12 March 2013 in Kiev. The agreement is aimed at creating a bilateral contractual legal framework for international air connection between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. The conclusion of the agreement will allow the creation and functioning of a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland, further development of cooperation in aviation, the establishment of active links and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Please support the bill, honourable national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u86	Thank you. The report gives the floor to a representative of the Committee on European Integration, Jurinec Oksani Vasilovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u87	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on air transport (registration number 0100) from 12.05. In 2016, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came from the fact that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the Agreement. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will enable the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level to implement and activate bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. Further development of aviation cooperation will contribute to business relations and further increase the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. The ratification of the Treaty does not entail adjustments to existing laws, or the adoption of new laws by Ukraine. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which stresses that the treaty can be ratified. Please support such an important ratification and bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Squirreluk Vladimir Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u90	Dear friends, we're already talking about such an important ratification over the third bill. We all realize that this is what we need: intergovernmental cooperation, it's making new contacts, it's making things easier between carriers and aircraft and motor vehicles, and so on. So I ask you to support this question, because it is not political, but purely technical, which will help us in our future cooperation with Poland. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u91	Thank you. Miroshenko Ivan Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u92	Please give the floor to Eutuska, deputy Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u93	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to address our colleagues more right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the more in the meeting room, the less we talk about things that are happening in our country right now, when, for example, Deputy Vojcitsky is being thrown into a car by some gasoline mix, there's a car, a car driven by a man all the more by our oligarchs, who now have monopolies for everything, that's going to feel good. I'm talking about that there's a monopoly in the aviation sector, and why are we all so afraid to call the name, who is this monopoly? So Mr. Kolomayski, who currently holds the MAU, has an estimated 80 per cent of such benefits at Borispol Airport, not paying for rents of 30.33 million dollars that can be obtained by the airport itself. We see that when Lviv Airport is only 10 percent busy at work and it's underpaid, it's very difficult, of course, to work and maintain staff. Why is this happening? Because our planes, or those airlines that come to us or their planes, can't be in the airports because there's a ban on it, and the airline manager doesn't respond completely to these things. They are, like, forced to fly to Poland or fly somewhere else because they're cheaper there. I want to speak to you, dear colleagues, to us, we have to talk about these things. And as long as the monopoly is here, and the monopolies, the oligarchs will manage these things until we have any development in any field. Fatherland will vote on this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there no more willing to speak after the discussion? Discussion of this project is also completed 0100. And we're starting to discuss the last draft of the Ratification Act, which is now in the order of the day session. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on Air Connection (Registration No. 0101). And, colleagues, I would like to point out that after this bill has been discussed, we will go to the ratification vote. It's going to be in 10 minutes, and I'm asking you to maximize all the factions in the Parliament Hall. And now I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on Ratification 0101 under the shortened procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 0101 summary procedure, please vote. [[11:38:49]] For a hundred and That's 156 for it. Decision taken. The report invites the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Rominsky Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on air links is proposed. Which is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary to ensure the validity of the said Agreement. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on Air Connection, done in Athens on October 6, 2011. The agreement is aimed at creating a bilateral contractual legal framework for international air connection between Ukraine and the Greek Republic. The Agreement will allow the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level to implement and activate bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Greece. Further development of cooperation in aviation between the two countries, the establishment of active connections and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to support all of our bills on combined international transports, on air transport between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Poland and the Greek Republic and to adopt the bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u96	Thank you. The report invites the Secretary of the European Integration Committee, Captain Olena Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u97	The European Integration Committee discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on Air Communications and unanimously decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I will brief you, colleagues, that under this agreement we will be able, on a bilateral basis, to actually fly to the territory of the country, i.e. Greece, without landing, to make stops in the territory for non-commercial purposes, to make stops for the purpose of receiving and removing passengers, cargo, mail that is transported separately or in combination, thus allowing in fact bilateral arrangements on conditions, possibly in the future a single airspace throughout the EU. I want to emphasize that, yes, at this stage, it's just signing agreements with individual countries. We were talking about Cyprus, Poland, now we're talking about Greece. But the key, very important -- this was highlighted in the first Coalition Agreement two years ago -- is the signing of a common air space agreement with the EU. Because this will actually open up the possibility for both European companies, the Loukostos to transport and Ukrainian companies to expand the geography of flights. And I'm sorry, but the situation that we have today, with actual monopolisation and inadequate provision of aviation services by the only Ukrainian company on the market today, will finally stop and Ukraine will be able to fly at an adequate cost across Europe. So I think we need to make this our primary goal. And at this stage, please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Give a chance to finish? No, it's not. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u99	The People's Front faction will certainly support and vote in favour of all the draft laws on the ratification of international cooperation agreements, which will help our country to successfully manage cooperation in the future. But now I want to go to all colleagues who are not in their jobs to support this ratification. In particular, I would like to go to the Radical Party, which is not the first day to successfully block the rostrum to support this ratification and help us to continue our cooperation. Please vote and support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u100	Thank you. In five minutes, the vote will take place. Please invite all the deputies to the Hall and the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I now give the floor to Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Hanna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u102	Dear friends, in the last two years, we have seen a sharp decline in both investors and tourists in Ukraine. What do investors and tourists need? The first is a positive image of the country, and the second is a comfortable airline, comfortable infrastructure, rail connections, good roads. Here's these. The ratification of these agreements is already necessary, and I ask everyone to vote, to come to the hall and not to take the time. Because there are important bills ahead of time, including the adoption of recommendations for parliamentary hearings on tourism development in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u103	Thank you. I ask you to sum up the general consideration of the drafts of the Romanian Infrastructure Minister Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please, it's a closing word. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, after a minute of voting, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u104	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! I ask to support the ratification of the agreements, to support the adoption of legislation on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on international combined transport, on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, Poland and the Greek Republic on air links. These issues are very relevant, they're out of politics. I think that the ratification of these agreements will bring this hall together, and the decision will be made in the best interests of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs, prepare for the ratings vote. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Each of those covenants is important to Ukraine. And, dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the rating vote. Please participate in the rating vote. Vote. [[11:46:45.]] For-195 Please come into the hall. We still have, colleagues, the potential to gather whom? Heads of factions, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the motion to vote again, and if we don't have votes to make the decision, I'm just going to have to close the session. Colleagues, I ask you again to prepare for the vote. And I'm going to put the ratings vote again. And please take part in the rating vote. Please take part in the rating vote, please. [[11:48:22]] For 218. Colleagues, five votes missing. I'm asking you to come into the hall. And now I'm going to start putting our rulings to the vote. Nadia, we're voting now. Nadia, we're voting. Huh?Oh, my God! There'll be a card, okay. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. We do. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote, colleagues. Ready? One minute, please, Arthur. Gerasimov, one minute, please, Arthur. One minute and we'll go to the vote. Don't leave the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'd like to refer once again to the representatives of all the factions of Parliament present in this room to support the Order 0084 on the support of our scientists. This is the world of our nation, and we need to understand that this support depends on how quickly our industries develop. Because the support goes to scientists who work today and to young scientists, including those who are working today to support our businesses that are working to support our science. So once again, I appeal to the representatives of all factions to unite and support the 0084 decree on our scientists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-15-m0.u107	Let's move on to the vote, to the decision-making process. And I'm betting on the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, No. 0084 on the basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:50:56]] For 224 I'll put it to a vote one time. I'll put it back once. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, not to go out when decisions are made by Parliament. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 0084. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please vote. [[11:51:39]] For 224 Mr. Igor, don't you support ratification? Are you able to vote? We're short two votes, colleagues. Colleagues, two votes missing. Did everyone vote? Is there any point in putting it? Please. Let's wait for them to come into the hall. The card didn't work. And I'll do it again. Okay. Locked down. Card didn't work. Colleagues, I'd like to be in the workplace. And I ask you to take part in the vote. Cononenko's here, it's a guarantee of success in the vote. And I'm proposing once again to go back to the draft Law 0084. Whoever supports this proposal please vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. [[11:53:07]] For 231 Decision taken. Now, society, out of respect for each other and for the Ukrainian State, let's now go through all the ratifications discussed. And in those 10 minutes, no one leaves the hall and leaves. Do you have a deal? Let's go. So I'm voting on draft Law 0084 on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general on the basis of the committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:53:52]] For 229 The law is passed. Hello. Next. Draft Decision on the opening of the negotiation process for amendments to the 1993 Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre (0084-P). The committee's proposal is to take a decision in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we have a total vote of 0084. [[11:54:31]] For 225 Are you least interested in ratifying international agreements, Mr. Berezenko? I'm asking you to come back to work. And I'm proposing to go back to the 0084-P review. Please vote return 0084-P. Please vote. [[11:55:14]] For 221 That's what I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Should we reject this motion for a ruling? No, right? Colleagues, are there any warnings about this draft decision? There's no warning. Then I shall re-vote the return to the consideration of Decree 0084-P. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 0084. Please vote. [[11:56:10]] For 221 Dear colleagues, I have a letter to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the Self-Help faction, three people vote, participate in every vote, their cards just don't work. How do we get out of this technical dilemma? 2123. It was 2323 now, wasn't it? 21. Colleagues, let's get back to this. Say again, we have reason to put this to a vote. Is that right? Then, colleagues, please, I think the technical services will work. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, I hope this time all the cards work. You're in Fatherland, too. I'm actually asking the services to trace this moment. The same thing is happening in the "Paternity" faction, they're voted by a larger number, they're not working shorts. Let's try it again, colleagues. I'm going to bet 0084 again, but together we're going to check how many cards work. I'm asking you to return to 0084. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:57:58]] For 222 We move on to the next draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport. Dear colleagues, I'm re-voting and I'm asking to take part in the rating vote. Please take part. Please vote. [[11:58:53]] For 214 214 is the real state in which we are in today's ratification situation. We've discussed them, we'll be able to make decisions after them, and unfortunately only one of the draft laws has been passed. And now, according to the Rules, I declare a recess and immediately close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because we've spoken a number of ratifications, unfortunately, we're in Parliament right now -- the rating vote has demonstrated -- we don't have any votes to make decisions. Therefore, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Dear colleagues, I want fruitful committee work today in the committees. And today there will be parliamentary hearings. Please. On the Crimea parliamentary hearings, please participate. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we're going to continue our work.
