ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues! As the national MPs enter the hall, I would like to say the logic of today's action. The logic is that yesterday, after the committee meeting, a number of committees gave me, as Head of the Supreme Council, a number of bills that require urgent consideration at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the Committee on Cultural Affairs, and this is the Committee on Budget Affairs. And that's why today I started and included a chapter on inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. A number of these bills are not contradictory, they are not conflicting, but they have the distinction that they need to be included immediately. So I ask you to look with understanding at this point, and the appropriate room will already be determined which of these bills will be included in the agenda that we will consider and which will only be included in the agenda. Everyone listened to me. It's just a win. It's just a win. Colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for registration. Everybody in place? Dear colleagues! I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[10:05:51]] 340 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Ruslan Mikhailovich Sidorovich. Let's all welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Ruslan, is it? Welcome! At the beginning of the session, there was an ultimatum requirement for two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party demanding a recess. But they're ready to replace the break from the rostrum. Who's going to have the show, colleagues? Oleg Beresuk. I'm giving three minutes to speak from the rostrum to the self-help faction of Oleg Berezuk, and to the self-help factions who have joined him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u2	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, prominent citizens of Ukraine! It is in these weeks, months, and days that Ukraine is on the verge of defining its sovereignty. Meetings of Normandy Fours, meetings of the President's Administration, debates in Parliament -- today Ukraine is determined how to defend its sovereignty. Over the next few days, the Self-Help Party, along with the Self-Help factions in cities and villages, quickly gathered more than 30,000 votes to help the President of Ukraine, the government and parliament protect Ukraine's sovereignty and say very clear national "no" -- "no" to the special status of Donbass, which will destroy Ukrainian sovereignty, in this form that is proposed in the Minsk Accords. "No" to the election on Donbass! This is a political atomic weapon, a bomb that will break apart and destroy Ukrainian sovereignty. Yes, the occupation, which is Russia in Ukrainian territory, must be recognized. Yes, it must be acknowledged that this is the war and aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. It is necessary to recognize and adopt in Parliament the Act on Occupied Territories, which will not only define it, but which will draw the way of depopulation and the release of temporarily occupied territories. And while they're temporarily occupied, and you and I are unable because this state has been destroyed economically and militarily over the past four or five years, we have to build our power economically and militarily. That's what these people who signed up and came to think about it today are helping us fight with you to fight for sovereignty. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u3	Thank you. So let's move on to the agenda. I remind you once again that after the first question, we will have a block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The session will determine which of these questions will be included. But these are the issues on which profile committees have insisted, most of which need immediate action. Dear colleagues, and the first question in our good yet spring tradition, I have proposed a question on which the Ukrainian government insisted on the Conciliation Council, on which the Committee also insisted, is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to restrict access to the Ukrainian market of foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content. This is a question that we care not only about culture but about security, about the reflection of the elements of the hybrid war of the Russian Federation, which is also about the impact on the Ukrainian reader, on Ukrainian culture. So I am convinced that this question will unite the entire room, and I am confident that we will be able to make a positive decision. First of all, I'm going to ask my colleagues to vote on this issue in favour of a reduced procedure. It is offered only on a basis and we have a very full day’s schedule. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to review draft Law 5114 on a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please vote, please support. [[10:10:48]] For 124 Colleagues, I see we're not there yet. I'd like to emphasise that this is a matter of settling the information space of Ukraine so that the quantity of book products that often threatens national security from the Russian Federation cannot reach our readers and the territory of our country. So that we can fill the space with a Ukrainian book and create restrictions on Russian propaganda in our country. We can go in full reading, colleagues, but this will be an hour and we won't be able to consider all the questions we have on our mind. Once again, I would like to emphasize that it is only proposed by the committee as a basis. And so once again, I'm going to ask you to back up the reduced procedure so that we can get our agenda as full as possible. I see MPs coming up and I'm going to put the vote again, and I'm going to ask my colleagues for their support. Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich has arrived to report on the bill personally. I want to thank him for that. And I'd like to ask my colleagues to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Can I put it on the vote again? Is everyone there? then I am voting once again on the motion for a brief procedure for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market for foreign printed products of anti-Ukraine content No. 5114. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:12:57]] For-164 Thank you for understanding, colleagues. And I invite you to the report of Vice Prime Minister Kirilenko Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Andrey Parubius, distinguished national deputies! In Ukraine, tons of anti - Ukrainian literature has been uncontrollable for many years, which is actually unhindered by readers, especially in southern and eastern Ukraine. In this regard, on September 8, the government approved the draft Ukrainian law, which is now being proposed to you. The need to prepare this bill is due to the threat of national security on the part of Ukraine, because of the introduction against our country of information and psychological war, which is part of the spread in Ukraine of printed products of anti-Ukrainian content. The bill proposes to introduce a permissive principle for the distribution of all book products, originating in the aggressor country alone. And empowering the relevant authority of the central executive authority to make decisions on the prohibition of products containing anti-Ukrainian content, promotes the aggressor country's power structures, entrenches on territorial integrity, and Ukraine's state sovereignty. In doing so, the publisher will not need a product that will be carried in the hand luggage or in the baggage accompanying it if it does not exceed ten copies. The Public Expert Council, which, in the case of the adoption of the law, will be set up by the State Department for 10 days, will grant appropriate permits for such books, provided copyright and licence are confirmed. The draft bill was preceded by a broad public debate, discussions were attended by MPs, representatives of power, publishers, experts, the vast majority of participants supported the introduction of such legislative mechanisms, the impeding of entry into the territory of the anti-Ukrainen propagandist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u5	How much? One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u6	Unable to reach Ukraine with Ukrainian and Russian literature. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at its meeting, unanimously endorsed the support of the bill. He's been agreed on in all ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, Customs, the BSS and other responsible structures. Victoria’s chairman, Sümar, supported the unanimous adoption of the bill in the first reading. The public discussion has been successful, most publishers support the implementation of such a standard as temporary, first. And second of all, it only applies to produce from an aggressor country. The interests of the Ukrainian book market will not be affected. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of the People's Deputy Olga Cervakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u8	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The committee at its meeting on 5 October considered the bill, its aim is to introduce a mechanism to restrict printed production to the Ukrainian market, a printed product originating in the aggressor State or occupied territory. The bill forbids it. The proposal is to create a mechanism to prohibit the use of polygraph products, the use of printed media, in particular to promote the authorities of the aggressor State, to promote the violent overthrow of state authority, to promote Communist or national socialist ideology and things like that. The main scientific and expert office has a number of observations to this bill, and that's true. But at the committee meeting, after considering the bill, we decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. And this bill is one where you can clear up all the inaccuracies of such a technical legal nature between the first and the second readings. I urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this bill and support the restrictions on the humanities of Ukraine on the influence of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Let's go to the discussion, ladies and gentlemen, please record two in favour, two in front. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Front, Mr. Andrey Reka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u10	Please give the word to the colleague of Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u11	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that our faction will support this bill in the first reading. But I would like to highlight the shortcomings that exist in it. First of all, there's no definition of which product is defined by what comes from the aggressor state. If the criterion is to cross the border with Russia as far as possible, based on the first part of article 28 of the Publishing Law, it can be supplied through other countries: Belarus, the European Union. And this law absolutely does not protect against the supply of produce through these countries. Obviously, there are some contradictions with the signed WTO Agreement, obviously the permits are not regulated across the border. The cross-border is regulated by a licence and therefore the Ministry of Economics has to make further changes to other laws in order to effectively operate this import. So I think it's very important that this law doesn't turn into an empty chat room, so that we don't get criticized everywhere for limiting freedom of speech and censorship. Instead, the Russian propaganda and anti - Ukrainian book, as before, will continue to reach us in Ukraine. So I encourage him to support him in his first reading and to work very carefully on his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u12	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Nadia Savchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u13	In the first reading, that's how you support it. And not to give this law such fate that it does not happen to this law, such fate as the Ukrainian Song Act, which does not take place in every cabak where Russian popsa, Russian chancellor, Russian propaganda. Indeed, the Russian aggressor must be stopped, and above all, we must stop in our consciousness. Therefore, the literature had to be cleaned first, and it had to be done long ago. In the first reading, accept it and write it in a way that it works, not like "the law of the Ukrainian song." It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u14	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Borislav Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u15	I beg your pardon to convey to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u16	Oleg Musai, the people. Please, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Red Town, Sokaland, People's Control. We can thank the Cabinet for responding to the repeated discussion in this room about printed products originating in the aggressor country. But you know, what I've already asked you, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister, is that in our churches, for example, the Moscow Patriarchate, and in the monasteries that are located in the territory of Kiev-Pecher Lavre, which are located in the territory of Pochayiv Lavra, is the mass of printed production of its own production. And so if this is just about the aggressor country, it's completely inadequate. You know what the commercial order is now. A waste that hates Ukraine, including the churches that I call them, can print any kind of product anywhere. So I think the second reading needs to be processed very seriously and amended, not just from the aggressor country. Because tomorrow they're going to print or print in Azerbaijan. I don't know if there's any. Belarus is not an aggressor country. What? It's the same anti-Ukrainian product. Look at the schedules with the praise of the Russian kings, with the praise of the DNR-LNR of all kinds of terrorists in these churches. People are good, let us take this more seriously and work hard. We are prepared to make substantial additions and proposals from People Control to this project. But in the first reading, I must urge everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u18	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u19	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party There was a presentation yesterday of the book by the famous Ukrainian political scientist Mikola Davidyuk, "How Road Propaganda Works." In fact, during a presentation by journalists, political scientists, participants raised questions and appealed to the national MPs present about the need for the use of a recipe that would resist the use of roadside propaganda. In fact, we think that this bill is one of the elements of this recipe and we are ready to support it in the first reading. But it really needs to be worked out because in other countries, and not only in an aggressor country, anti - Ukrainian literature and subversive activities can be produced in Ukraine. This law, it was supposed to be passed in 2014, right after the beginning of Russian aggression. Because, in fact, what we saw in Donetsk yesterday at the funeral of Motora, the land with concrete, is precisely the result that the anti - Ukrainian book, the anti - Ukrainian transmissions, had and had space. But what if even some Ukrainian journalists allow themselves to call the same Motoroline an outstanding fighter? So let us support this law in its first reading and in its detailed work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u20	Thank you. National Deputy Roman Semenich of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction will certainly support this bill in the first reading. But once again, I want to draw the attention of the entire room, of the entire Ukrainian people, that unfortunately this law is just an imitation to protect our nation's information space. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the book of anti-Ukrainian content produced in Russia can be without hindrance, as proposed by this bill, brought to Ukraine. I mean, unfortunately, this law has nothing to do with protecting the information space. The other one. It raises questions about the number of terms proposed to introduce this law, for example, what is the positive image of an aggressor State employee, and a number of other substantive observations. That is why we will be supporting the first reading, but we insist on making substantial work on the subject of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u22	Thank you. People's Deputy Ribczynski, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u23	The law is, of course, in a series of laws that stop aggression, stop propaganda in Russian. But I can't help but notice that we still have Moscow Squares, Moscow Streets, and Moscow Street in Kiev is next to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think that this law is, of course, a vote in the first reading, but it is, as it were, a drop in the sea of the tears of the Ukrainian people in relation to the propaganda that happens daily against our nation. I think we should add two thirds to that drop in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u24	Thank you. National Deputy Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u25	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. War, above all, is about people’s consciousness. Just after a person's consciousness changes, then he can take the machine gun, start shooting, shoot the Ukrainians in this case. So, of course, this law is necessary, it should have been passed long ago. The Supreme Council must accept it. But it must be understood that this law, I take it, is the result of these so - called compromises in the Supreme Council, it is too soft. Because we actually have to ask the question, I think that if we have Russian aggression today, if Russia is aiming to destroy our nation, then in general, what kind of printed publications from an aggressor country can in principle be spoken of while they're shooting at us while they're occupying our territories? And plus there has to be a real responsibility for those who violate this law in this case, even in this soft edition. Only then will it work. Otherwise, it could be like now on the radio: we passed the law, and the Russian pops continues, and no one is responsible. There must be responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. We are now moving on to making a decision. I am very much asking all fellow members of the national deputies to come into the hall, prepare for making a decision. As the national deputies enter the hall, I give the floor to the closing Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kirilenkov, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear National Deputies! We're responding to all the demands you're making here in this room. Yes, we have thousands of tasks ahead of us. And this law is just one of the directions that beats Russian propaganda. And it needs to be approved at least because all this printed propaganda is officially and legally coming to Ukraine. Do you remember, in May, Book Arsenal in Kiev, downtown? What was sold there? The book of Dougine, the Russian Goebbels, who directly called and called for the killing of Ukrainian fighters on the front! So we agree that we need to work on the second reading. As I understand it, most deputies tend to have to be strengthened, the standards of this law should be strengthened. And we agree with that. I don't agree with what you can get from Belarus or Azerbaijan, the law clearly stipulates that the book comes from an aggressor country. I mean, if it's written in Russia, it means that even through Belarus or Azerbaijan, if they do, it won't come legally! For the first time in many years, we have been addressing this issue and are able to resolve it. Mr. Mosiyczuk has spoken, and I agree with him. 2014 was supposed to be adopted, maybe 1992. It was only then that there were not so many patriotic people in Parliament who could press the pros button. There is now. Although I do understand that there may be a complement to the normative or technical nature. And the same thing I want to say about the front of our act that we adopted on the radio. It actually becomes effective on November 8, because we wrote it down. Three months is a transitional period since the President signed. And that was the compromise we were looking for in this room. Our first edition was much stronger. And now, gradually, 25, 30, 35 percent of the quota for the English - speaking song begins to be implemented. Radars signed a memorandum of execution yesterday or yesterday, which means the changes will be, but we shouldn't stop for a second. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we must indeed go one step at a time, and the decommunization that we have adopted in this room, and the radio quotas, and other laws, is a continuation of one general strategy and a policy of the Ukrainian Parliament to protect the information space, to protect the security of the state. There is a discussion, perhaps in certain situations. Therefore, it is only in the first reading that we should accept, begin this course. The worst thing we can do is ignore these problems that exist. So I ask everyone to support the offer of just the first reading. And I'm betting on the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market for foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content (No.5114), on the basis of a committee proposal. In fact, all speakers supported the proposal. Voting is a sign. Please take up your jobs, and I ask you to support Law 5114 as a basis. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please. [[10:32:31]] For the 250. Decision taken. Please show by factions. "Peter Prashenko" – 94, "The People's Front" – 68, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 21, "The Father's Party" – 17, "The Radical Party – 16, "The Rebirth Party" – 4, "The Will of the People" – 6. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. I welcome the initiative and support of your initiative, Viacheslav Anatoliovich. I wish you a fine fruitful work for your second reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the beginning of the session, I will explain to you the logic of including issues of the agenda of the session. We have indeed come up with a problem that I don't think will happen again that we haven't approved the order of the entire session. Yesterday, after the committees, a number of committee heads and factions asked me to include in the agenda the questions on the committees that needed an immediate solution. Many of them are very simple. Such as: 200th anniversary of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics, like the 200th anniversary of Kharkiv National Agrarian University. But these are questions that need a quick solution, for the celebrations will take place next week. It's also a request for the Law on the Restructuring of Debt by the State Enterprise ANTONOV. The laws that are necessary for the adoption of the budget. And so yesterday I included a chapter for inclusion in the agenda, some of which we can go over and make a decision. Of course, each of those laws will determine the hall. Of course, according to each of those laws, the hall will give its position: to include or not to include. We're not going to talk right now, we're just going to vote. And so I have a request that all the deputies come into the hall right now, and we're going to have 10 votes to put the day session in order without discussion. It will take time and it will give us an understanding of which of those laws have a chance to be considered today and which do not. Thank you. Can we get to the vote, colleagues? Colleagues, we can, right? I'm afraid there are enough of us in the hall, colleagues. That's why I'm waiting. Well, I see it's like high-level mobilization. So this is going to be a short block, but it's important that we have enough votes on it. So, first of all, the bills he asked to include in the agenda of the Committee of Culture. First. This is a decree, a draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics (4989). Who supports the proposal to include this, the draft decision in the agenda and consider, please vote, colleagues, and please support. Lvivians, please mobilize. [[10:35:47]] For 267 Thank you. Thank you, it'll take a while, but it's very important for the teams. Next: 4990 is a draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of the University of Lviv. Please vote, please support. [[10:36:16]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next: 5230 is a draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of the founding of the Kharkiv National Agrarian University of V.V. It's annoying. The oldest U.S. in the whole of Eastern Europe, and we have to give a sign of respect. Please support and please vote 5230. Please, colleagues, getting into the agenda for the decision-making process, then we'll take a look. [[10:36:50]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Next: the committee is very insistent -- this is a draft decree to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the liquidation of the Armenian Catholic Church in western Ukraine. They have to take action on October 20th, and they're waiting for Parliament to decide on this. Draft decision 5255. Please vote, please support the four draft rulings of the Committee of Culture. Please vote 5255, please support. [[10:37:36]] For 249 Decision taken. And in this case, I welcome the Committee on Culture, and I think we'll take a quick look at it right after this block. So, colleagues, the next block is a request from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship for two bills, which, according to the Committee, also require urgent consideration. This is a draft law on the restructuring of the debt of the state-owned company Antonov, which has refused to cooperate with Russia and needs state support. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision 5244, please vote. [[10:38:36]] For 277 Decision taken. The following is a draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3-1, of the Budget Code for the State Enterprise ANTONOV. A composite bill, followed by a binding bill, 5245. Please vote, please support. [[10:39:12]] For 269 Decision taken. Colleagues, this is the Chamber of Enterprise and Industry block. So, your honorary colleagues, the next is a block that was proposed by all the factions' heads, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian State Service Act (as regards the status of members of the secretaries of the MP factions and groups. To get you to the right direction, this is the bill by Sergey Soboljeva Vladislavovich, which was signed by all the heads of factions, representatives, and there is logic, and the idea that you agree with all the factions so that you don't confuse the Law on State Service and this Law 5263, my colleague. Did you take a look at him? He is. So who supports the inclusion of a day session in order to make a decision, because it needs a quick decision, 5263, please vote, please support. [[10:40:26]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. Thank you. Colleagues, next, I have a request for this initiative, which I have long been making this draft Decision on the Declaration of the Memory and Solidarity of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, the Seimas of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the events that took place on our lands in the twentieth century. This is a draft decree that we agreed on for about two months together with the Lithuanian Parliament and with the Polish Seima and agreed that our parliaments would make this decision on this day with an assessment of our historical events, a joint decision. I'm asking you very much to support -- this is an initiative by Ukraine, this is the way to the edge. On the road to strengthening the anti-putinian coalition. 5280. Please vote, please support. This is also a request from the committee, please 5280. Please be supportive. [[10:41:53]] For 256 256 for. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next: we're moving quite positively. Next: colleagues, I would like you all to concentrate, the following is a request that we spoke closely on the regulatory committee yesterday, asking to include in the agenda the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a question of reform of Parliament, colleagues. And that's a question that caused a lot of discussion in the room. I want to let you know that at the end of the month we are going to the European Parliament all the heads of factions and the heads of the regulatory committee to actually analyze the reform of parliament. I know that some deputies had warnings, but yesterday I made a suggestion to both the regulatory committee and the faction heads that might give us a mitigating situation regarding this law. Especially after that provision about mixed weeks, colleagues. I would very much like us to give a sign to our European partners for whom reform of Parliament is very important. I'm just putting the day in order to make a decision, colleagues. I'd like to ask everyone and my fellow majors and all the factions, because there are Igor Greens, Maxim Burbak, Oleg Burresuk, Oleg Lazko. Colleagues, we failed it twice. It was a very bad sign for the European Parliament. I very much ask that we put in the agenda for making a decision. Please support your colleagues, please vote. I can count on you all to say that this is not a necessary reform of Parliament. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote on the agenda for decision 4696, 4696-1, 4696-2, 4696-3, 4696-4. Please, colleagues, please back up. Please vote, please support your colleague. Just getting in the daytime order to make a decision. [[10:44:09]] For 207 Colleagues, you know that applauds those who tell me every Conciliation Council that we need to reform the Rules. They're the ones who're talking, and now they're applauding. This is where all the bills are put. I mean, not you. This is where all of the colleague's bills are put, I'm going to put again, all of them and alternatives, all of which are and are not circumstantial, which have been registered for the reform of Parliament. My colleagues, I'm very much asking you to take another look, and I'm going to ask you again, and I'm going to ask for your support. This is a proposal for all the bills to be considered. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. We'll give you a bad sign, colleagues. I ask once again to support the draft Law 4696 and all four alternatives to the day-to-day session, not for consideration, not for first reading. And just to put all the alternate bills into the agenda of the day. Colleagues, stand by, please. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, Oleg, mate. Please vote, please support your colleagues Please support me, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[10:45:44]] For 207 Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Next. The next bill that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has asked us, the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, is necessary for us to be able to give full consideration to the draft budget. This is a draft of the Law on Measures to Resolve the Debt of Heat and Heat-generating Organizations and Central Water Supply and Water Management. Hence, it is a bill that must unite all factions. And I'm sure you've met him. Yesterday the prime minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groisman, made this proposal, and everyone actually supported it. So I ask you to put the agenda in order for a decision to be made. I think there's got to be a positive reaction from all the factions. Please vote, please support, colleagues, 5273. Please vote. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[10:47:12]] For 247 It's on. The next 5044 is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the review of certain taxes). It's also a bill that's important for us to be able to give full consideration to our budgets, our colleagues. And I also ask you to include it in the agenda for making a decision. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please. [[10:47:48]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The next is from the budget code block, 5131 is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, the text of the request of the Minister of Finance and the Committee on Budget Affairs so that we can consider it. Who's in charge of including 5131 in the agenda, please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[10:48:33]] For 180. The decision is not taken. It's gotten worse. Colleagues, I would now like to ask you once again to support the draft Law on the Additional Financing of Social Protection Programmes and the Defence of the Country by way of confiscated funds and funds received and directed to the State budget from the implementation of property for the decision of the court to commit corruption and corruption-related offences (5088). It's already a bill that's become a sign -- a special confiscation. But the bill, which was approved by the international structures, was very detailed by Justice Minister Petrenko on the latest broadcasts. A bill that is supported by most factions in Parliament, colleagues, but somehow we can't even put it into the order of the day session. It's a sign, an important question, colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. This is a question that needs to be understood by society: whether we are ready to return the funds of Yanukovich, stolen from the Ukrainians, to the Ukrainian budget, or not ready. I ask you, colleagues, to vote and support 5088. I ask you to maintain the order of the day session, colleagues, only inclusion. Colleagues, factions, we talked about this with you yesterday, let's support the band. I urge everyone: let's vote, colleagues. Should we support our colleagues? Just getting into the daytime, okay? Can I put it to a vote, colleagues? I'm voting only on the agenda for the 5088 session. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:50:34]] For 205 Well, colleagues, well, we've just agreed that we're just going to get into the day-to-day, colleagues! In the discussion, you promised. Guys, guys, I'll put it back together. Well, obviously we weren't. We said we had a long discussion. I'm calling the Self-Help faction, just putting it in the order of the day session. A radical party, just getting in the order of the day session. My colleagues, I'm going to put it again, and I'm counting on it very much. We may face a situation where one of the greatest factions will stop voting, colleagues. It's wrong, it's just an inclusion request, it's actually a formal-simplification action. We won't be looking at it today, colleagues. Let's stand, let's take a position of solidarity here. Once again, colleagues, I'm asking all factions. I'll put it back on. I'm re-voting the proposal just to include in the agenda of the 5088 session, my colleague. Please vote, and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:52:19]] For 205 205. We didn't make it? We'll be moving on to the discussion, colleagues. Colleagues, nothing's gonna change? I can see it on the signatures. Won't your position change? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, he's already had a discussion. A government bill that was discussed at all levels, on all committees, even on factions, colleagues. Let me put it again, colleagues. If there are no votes, let's move on. But I would very much like to ask, convincingly. This is a symbolic action. Okay, next vote, okay. Colleagues, all right, we got a deal. Roger that. Next, 5142. Next, this is Bill 5142, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the acquisition of unwarranted assets by the State. Colleagues, that's what we're voting for. They're paired, right. But if we go through with this one, it'll be good, right? So, colleagues, just getting into the agenda 5142. If you vote for it, we'll go to a positive vote. I'm asking you to mobilize. 5142, a special confiscation prepared by the government, discussed with all factions. Just in order of the day session, please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5142 session. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:54:24]] For 190 Why? My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. And then we'll move on to the day-to-day issues. You know, there's been a lot of discussions. And there was general agreement, only in the order of the day session, colleagues. I'm going to put it again, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs that they haven't. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, except for the inclusion in the agenda of session 5142, colleague. I'm asking everyone to support me, colleagues. Rather, it is a sign of solidarity and the goodwill of Parliament. We won't be looking at it today, colleagues, we won't be. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. I ask you to vote and please support, colleagues, 5142, the return of Yanukovic's funds to Ukraine's budget. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:55:45.]] For 199 It's a bad sign to start our work, colleague. It was the last bill among those recommended. But I, with your permission, will once again ask for the full mobilization of the Chamber to support the 4696 – reform of Parliament, just the inclusion in the agenda of the session. For your information, fellow Members of Parliament's reform is one of those reforms that evaluates the work of all reforms in Ukraine. So we're going to take it a little bit, let's say we're dealing with secondary issues. This is one of the key issues: enhancing the ability of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In those bills, these are five bills, from all the people's deputies there are a number of ideas based on the reform plan of Parliament. I am very much asking to support the inclusion of only the day session. I'm going to put it again, and I'm going to ask everyone, both skeptics, and those who don't want to vote. We're going next week to all the factions' heads, the head of the regulatory committee, we're going to discuss this with the European Parliament's leadership. I ask you only to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I ask everyone to vote 4696. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in group. [[10:57:19]] For-188. No votes, 188. Colleagues, we're done, it's taken us, really, not much time, 15 minutes. And I, colleagues, will ask you to immediately ask us these questions, which are short, which are difficult, and we'll get right to their consideration, this is 4989 years old, this is very simple questions, we'll get through them quickly. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, now I'm going to announce them one by one. I would even recommend maybe not much discussion, they're really simple. I, Mr. Victor, have spoken in a concise manner, can speak for two minutes or two seconds. I'm just calling the MPs and asking you to be as concise as possible. So, the first draft of the Order (4989) to mark the 200th anniversary of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please. [[10:58:35]] For-189 189 for. I invite you to the report Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u29	Good day, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies! For a long time, it was thought that the "Lviv polytechnics" was established in 1844. But when Ukraine joined the Bologna Process in 2005, higher education institutions began to study their history. It was discovered that its origins reached 1816. This is evidence of documents that have been in the archives of Ukraine and Austria for 8 years. Then, the scientific council of the university decided that the point of reference of the history of "Lviv polytechnics" was 1816. This year, she was 200 years old. Since the Lviv University of Technology is the oldest technical university in Ukraine, and it belongs to the tens of the oldest technical universities in Europe and the world, I ask you to make a decision so that the facility will be able to celebrate its 200th anniversary this year. It's a higher level that has over 45,000 students, and it's now in the rating of the world's great heights. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u30	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please. Very short, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u31	Very short. Obviously, the committee is recommending a draft decree on the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the National University of Lviv Politechnics to take as a basis both as a whole and other subsequent decisions that will support Ukrainian higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u32	Thank you. I'm asking you to do a two-for-two, two-again. And I'm reminding you of the fineness of the performances. Please two for, two for against. Chicken, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u33	I beg you to pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the Lviv Politechnics comprises 800 universities in the world with the highest rating. This is a powerful science and education facility. There are fundamental studies in "Lviv polytechnics" in physics, electronics, chemistry, mathematical sciences, engineering. More than 500 samples of complex electronic measuring devices are designed with a high precision system developed by scientists and students of "Lviv polytechnics" who, by their quality characteristics, exceed the world's analogs. The "Lviv polytechnics" prepared, and from their walls came such brilliant scientists as: Maria Sklodowska-Kuri, Franke, Medvedski, August Witkowski and many others are a pleia of famous professors of technical and mathematical sciences. We ask you very much to join and vote in favour of this decision, and to mark one of the 800 institutions that are rated for the highest and best educational institutions in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u35	Thank you. The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u36	Please support the bill 4989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u38	Your Honour, Mr. Head! During the past decades, Ukraine’s higher education institutions have become engrossed in the release of lawyers and economists, neither in the country nor in the economy. "Lviv polytechnics," one of the few institutions that has held and is a flagman of engineering thinking in Ukraine that is practically disappearing. And today, when we celebrate 200 things, we have to confirm that not only are we going to love these knots that grow engineering thinking in Ukraine, which then goes abroad to work immediately, because the state doesn't appreciate it, we're going to appreciate these institutions with money like the state. And what I'm suggesting is that the Supreme Council should make no less than a million or two dollars to reward the best, best teachers who still keep themselves in this institution. So the proposal to add two million dollars to the rulings that we are voting on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u39	Fedoruk, please, Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u40	Attention! Dear colleagues, as a graduate in the past of the Lviv Institute of Technology, and today I will vote in favour of this ruling and call on all deputies to vote in favour of it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u41	Colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. Igor Schurm will have it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u42	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The Opposition Block faction will support this draft decision to commemorate the establishment of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics, but not for the reason that it is one of the oldest higher. And because the National University of Lviv Politechnics is today a visiting card for Ukraine, this is one of the best universities in the education field in Europe. Today, as a sign of respect for the professorate's composition, which conveys its knowledge to the students, to those students who always fill this university, we will support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u43	Thank you, dear fellows. We're moving on to a decision, please. Is it important for you to come forward? It's a very important position, isn't it? Please, Ivan Krulko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u44	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The "Fatherland" faction will undoubtedly support this decision to mark the anniversary of the famous higher education institute of the "Liviv Politechnics". But I think it's better for us to show, in fact, our love and affection for education and higher education in general, especially when we're looking at the budget, we're going to raise the real wages of the representatives of education and give the students scholarships at the minimum cost of living. This will be the real support and commemoration of their contribution and the anniversary of all higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I'll just tell you, higher education institutions and their leadership, they also understand what's important to them is their request. So it's important to them, colleagues, and you just have to have respect for their position. 30 more seconds, Oleg Lazko and we're going to the vote, we're going into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party faction supports the celebration at the national level of the 200-year anniversary of "Lviv Polytechnics", the famous Ukrainian level of the U.S. We wish you longevity, success in the work of the collective and the achievements of the students of the Lviv Politechnics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u47	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Draft Decree marking the 200th anniversary of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics No. 4989 on the basis and as a whole. I was a graduate student there with a special interest, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:08:05]] For 264 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, and welcome to the Libyan Politechnics. Welcome, colleagues. Next draft of Decree 4999 on the Celebration of the 200th Year of the University of Lviv, 4990. Please first support the position of the summary procedure, please vote. [[11:08:41]] For-200 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We talked a lot about the Lviv polytechnics. And there's only one tower that deals with trade and economic ties that's in the city of Lviv, which also came out of the cradle of Lviv polytechnics, has an ancient history. It's not customary to say that he's old, but he's also 200 years old. Can we talk about other relations between countries as trade and economics? They are most important because they determine the true love of that State for another state. These relationships and the development of all civilizations are linked to trade. I also ask you to support this decision, in view of the fact that these higher ones have given so many people who are now known throughout the world, who have given us the opportunity to communicate, to conduct international diplomatic parliamentaryism. I hope that it is their dedication to work here that will give them even more momentum to work in this room and to support their celebrations for 200 years. And I hope that in the world's ratings, it will be our Ukrainian tops, and it is our Ukrainian workers in the future in our country that will be able to work through us and the adoption of the necessary further economic laws. So please support the Lviv Business and Economic University ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Please record two for, two for against, please. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u50	Lviv is one of the few centers of Ukrainian science, standing next to Kiev, Kharkiv, which is mentioned today. And especially in the days of the Soviet occupation, he not only taught commerce, the administration of those living in Ukraine. There, people from all over the Soviet Union were taught and raised in love for people and for our nation. They remember Ukraine after this college, worthy and honest. That is why we welcome him and support this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u51	Thank you. The factions. One minute. Yeah, sorry! Meduna, People's Front. Then the minute is the Radical Party, and we move on to the vote. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u52	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We have a Thursday, an important day to vote. Today, we are looking at the State Budget in the first reading. At the same time, we tell each other stories about the importance of preparing commercial personnel and about new archival research. Let us take these decisions without discussion and not waste any time to consider more important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u53	Thank you. The last performance is from the Radical Party. Who's it gonna be? Oleg Lazko. Very short, and let's move on to the decision-making process. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko. The Radical Party's faction welcomes the community and students of Lviv University of Commerce and Economics with 200 years of age. We vote in favour of the state level of this glorious date. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome to the group of teachers and students at Kiev University of Commerce and Economics, which today marks 70 years from the day of its establishment. I wish this famous institution the history of a powerful, successful future, students of good knowledge, only red diplomas, teachers -- raise wages and public attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Order on the Celebration of the 200th Year of the University of Lviv (No. 4990), on the proposal of the Committee as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote and please support, colleagues. [[11:13:37]] For 252 It's been decided. Welcome to our Lviv University of Commerce and Economics and welcome to the author of the Oxana Jurinec Bill. So, colleagues, the following is identical: the draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of the founding of the Kharkiv National Agrarian University of Dokuchayev. Colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:14:15]] For 180. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marchenka Alexandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! In October 2016, Kharkiv National Agrarian University of Dokuchayeva celebrated its 200th anniversary. Today, in Ukraine, agrarians play one of the leading roles, and there is little credit for this at Kharkiv National Agrarian University. I personally want to welcome the team on a glorious date. Today, this group is one of the oldest not only in Ukraine but also the oldest in Europe. Dear colleagues, please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the representative of Self-Help, sir. From the rostrum. Ah, Semenesi gives the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u59	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. We're going to support this decision because Kharkiv is really one of the centers of science, the center of higher education. But with the opportunity, I want to say that the state, particularly the Supreme Council, has to love higher education not only by regulations but primarily by means of money and action. And action is probably the most important thing that characterizes us with you, power. I want to take this opportunity to get everyone's attention. In particular, and the next day, the Ministry of Education, on this situation, which resulted in the election of the Rector at Kharkiv National University of Radioelectronics. It's in that higher education facility, which is one of the pillars of education, the upbringing of the Aitish, of our nation. I would like to ask the Ministry of Education to pay attention because, with the violation of all the laws of today, the elections in this higher educational institution, which is acting as Rector Edward Rubin, are not allowed to vote in this institution, which is a gross violation of the law, so I very much ask the Ministry of Education to intervene in the situation -- and to give equal rights and opportunities for democracy and governance in this higher educational institution to really prevail. And that's going to be the support of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u61	Thank you. National Deputy Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, the issue of quality education is crucial to the development of any state, and it is absolutely crucial for Ukraine. Let me just give you an example a little bit of another sphere. For example, in legal education, every year we release about 12 or 14 thousand lawyers, and today, somewhere in our country there are about 350,000, i.e. almost 1 out of every 10 lawyers in our country -- it's kind of a professional lawyer. And unfortunately, we always feel humane hunger during the trial reform, and during the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the quality work of lawyers and other defenders sometimes raises extraordinary questions. So this applies to both lawyers and agrarians. Our country should be extremely interested in quality higher education. So we clearly support the celebration of such a remarkable date for Kharkiv Agrarian University. And our faction will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u62	And thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u63	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I turn to the Opposition Block, first of all, to you. Notice, today, when assessing education in Ukraine, everyone is stressing one thing: too little attention from the state, too little funding, too little scientific potential, too much teaching, too little chronic underfunding. And yet, university graduates today are wanted abroad -- both in the European Union and beyond the ocean. Nostration procedures are being done today in such a way as to simplify as much as possible. I emphasize this point because 200 years ago, 200 years ago, both in Lviv and in Kharkiv, people realized that without educated people in the technical field, for farming, for commercial and economic activities of the future in these areas, there can't be. Not only did Ukraine become a grasshopper in Europe, in European territories. It's all because educated people came along. And I'd very much like the Opposition Block to wish the new government the maximum attention they can pay to education. Today the faction of the Opposition Block will definitely support the celebration of this Jubilee. But he would not become like the celebration of a woman’s day or Mother’s Day. When it comes to women and mothers, it is only on this day when flowers are to be given. Daily attention. This will also be a gift to the students of Ukraine. The faction supports this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Victor Krivenko. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u65	I'd like to give Oleg Laishk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u66	Please, Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention, very important information. Last week, I was in Kharkiv, and I had the privilege of associating with a group of Kharkiv National Agrarian Universities. As the Head of Parliament rightly pointed out, the oldest agrarian university in Eastern Europe. And I thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parbia, for asking me, other fellow MPs today, to put this matter before the House of Parliament. The 200-year-old university celebrated October 5th. Thousands of students are being taught — future agronomists, landowners, forest managers. The Ministry of Agriculture and Industry didn't even say hello to the festival, to the Jubilee. That's the attitude towards agrarian science, about teachers, about students. Moreover, today this university actually wants to be destroyed. Two studies of the university’s holdings are included in the privatization list. Why would they want to privatize them? Because there's over 8,000 acres of forest. And this university teaches forest guides. And if we take them off this base, where the rural children will learn, we understand who will work in the village. So the best way to celebrate the university's Jubilee Day is not just the Supreme Council's decision, but the university's help. So I'm asking you to vote on the Order marking the 200th anniversary of Kharkiv National Agrarian University with my amendment. "In order to preserve the entire property complex of the university, to appoint the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to exclude from Decree No. 271 of 12 May 15, which provides for a list of objects for privatization, delete from this list the State Enterprise "Teaching and Research "Dokuchaevsky" and "The Skripaev Forest Research Farm of the Kharkiv National Agrarian University of Dokuchayev". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u68	I want to talk to the decision makers right now. Please, sire: Marchenko, Illenko, Golovko, Levchenko. Dear colleagues. It was just that Mr. Laska's amendment had been made. And I want to ask you, is there any objection to the other co-authors? Then. I don't. And he's asking for a statement from Mr. Litwin's group. Of course, please, Mr. Litwin, and let's proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u69	This will be the last performance. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision, colleagues. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u70	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Obviously, these documents regarding the celebration of the Jubilee of High Schools should be accepted. But I want to draw your attention to one fact that when we celebrate the anniversary of these institutions, we need to announce at the same time a parade on the level of accreditation I-II educational institutions. They're up in the air, they don't know what to do. We've drafted a bill number 5240. We offer to accept it. The committee's been working, the Chief Legal Authority's been working. Yet there is no desire to consider this bill. I ask you, by addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, to you, let's now look at this issue and give them the opportunity to have a period of adaptation by 2020, or else they will disappear as the actual vocational and technical institutions disappear. I ask you to support this proposal and take this decision to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u71	Thank you, dear fellows. We're moving on to decision-making, please take up jobs. Yeah, another one. Yes, please, John Kirilenko of Fatherland. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u72	Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. What Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said was said at the committee meeting yesterday. Dear colleagues, the I-II level of accreditation, hundreds of thousands of young people are being hanged, and Poles like to use it. During the past year alone, 100,000 of our young men and women have gone to school in Poland. And in Chernigov, I was told the amazing numbers: the death of birth four times, and young people leave the country -- genocide is called. It's a demographic disaster -- young people are leaving the country! What are we doing?Oh, my God! Let's support what the previous speaker said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u73	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft decree on the 200th anniversary of the founding of the Kharkiv National University of Dokuchiev, as amended, which was announced by one of the authors of the project, Oleg Lazko, who is supported by other authors of the project. And I ask you to vote on the basis, and in general, colleagues, please vote. [[11:26:12]] For 291 Welcome to Kharkiv University. Welcome to the authors and initiators of the bill. Next we have a decree honoring the 70th anniversary of the liquidation of the Armenian Catholic Church in Western Ukraine (5225). First vote. Short-term procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please, colleagues. [[11:26:52]] For-189 The report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u74	Dear friends! If you go to Western Ukraine, Lviv, or Carpathian, you will see beautiful Armenian churches standing empty for a long time. In any Carpathian museum, you'll see clothes that look like a hutzulian, but that are sewn dark blue and orange threads that were once worn by Armenians that are not there right now. In fact, in 1939 and then in 1946 they were evicted from Ukraine, many of them were forcibly converted to Catholicism, and their religion was destroyed, so our historical memory should always remind us of this. In order to uphold the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, taking into account the European vector of the development of our state, it is also important to remember the events of 1945-1946 in western Ukraine. In particular, measures have been taken to completely eliminate Eastern Catholic churches in western Ukraine. Believers of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic and Armenian-Catholic churches have suffered numerous persecutions from Soviet state bodies. The priests were sent to labor camps, and the churches themselves were outlawed. The Armenian-Catholic Church was among the churches of the Eastern Catholic ritual, which was under pressure and eliminated as an active one. According to historical sources, Armenian-Catholic churches were closing down, their property was destroyed, and the very ethnic group of Armenians who lived here during the Galician rule was evicted from western Ukraine to Poland. As a result of targeted actions against the Armenian-Catholic Church by the Soviet state authorities, an NCSC military tribunal was held on March 8-9, 1946, which eliminated churches and sentenced priests to imprisonment. On October 25, 1946, a document was issued in the Vatican, instructing us not to interfere with the transition of believers in the Armenian-Catholic Church to a Latin ritual. Historians view this day as the final day of the extermination of the Armenian-Catholic Church in western Ukraine. In Ukraine's first years of independence, condemned Armenian-Catholic priests were rehabilitated. The committee supported the decision as a whole. I urge you to support her, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I think we have a full understanding of the hall here. If we put this decision to the vote without discussion, because there are two very important bills that go on to restructure the debt of the ANTONOVA factory, it is very important that we consider them in 12 hours. Is there no objection to the decision to vote without discussion? So I'm betting on the vote, please focus, on the bill of honor for the 70th anniversary of the liquidation of the Armenian-Catholic Church in Western Ukraine. If you'll excuse me, Your Honor, we're voting. [[11:30:00]] For 218. Dear colleagues, I see that they have not arrived, and I ask you to return to the vote now on this matter. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to return to your seats. One minute, Oleg Light, 30 seconds, 30 seconds, one minute. Please, please, I'm asking everyone to come to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! First, about the text, with all due respect to the author, but how can we honor the tragedy? To celebrate, grief, and to honor tragedy, it seems to me that stylistically wrong. And most importantly, with all due respect to our Armenian brothers, Armenia is the country that recognized the annexation of Crimea, which recognized the Russian occupation of Crimea and did not support it, did not support territorial integrity, and the sovereignty of Ukraine, and I ask my fellow MPs to remember it. And I take this opportunity to appeal to Armenians, to Armenian authorities, to condemn Russian aggression in Crimea, to recognize Ukraine's territorial integrity and to support our fight against Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! So, from the construct that sounded, and there was one construct, I suggest that I change the name of the decree not to honor, but the 70-year-old decommissioning of the Armenian Catholic Church in western Ukraine. Right? And let's also divide matters between the state and the church, and now together we will support this determination. Once again, we ask everyone to return to the workplace and we put to the vote a draft Decree (registration number 5255) marking the 70th anniversary of the liquidation of the Armenian-Catholic Church in western Ukraine, where people also, in fact, suffered from repression. This should not be associated with what is happening today in modern Armenia. Can I have your back, please? [[11:32:24]] For 217 Dear colleagues, we have returned to the vote. I see the deputies are returning to the session room. Head of the committee, head of the committee, Mr. Knajicki. Mr. Knieżicki. Please give one minute to the committee head and he will explain the content of the ruling once again and we will return to the vote. We didn't go back to voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I find it very unpleasant to resort to political speculation. Evidently, Armenians who died at the hands of the NCS in 1946 to the present - day Armenian State have no bearing. Obviously, the resolve is that these people were mainly evicted in Poland and other European countries from Ukraine. Obviously, we must honor the memory of everyone who died by the hands of the NCSC in Ukraine. And of course, there are people who may not have understood, I believe that Oleg Lazko did not understand and will now support us. But there are people who deliberately refuse to honor the victims of the NCSC and the Soviet regime. I very much ask that we unite and show that we are a healthy, normal, modern European nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Princely, for the constructive presentation and the absolutely correct accenting. Dear colleagues, once again under the transcript, I propose that we do. The draft ruling is as follows: a draft decree on the 70th anniversary of the liquidation of the Armenian-Catholic Church in Western Ukraine, because it really is a tragedy and you can't celebrate it here, there or there. It is simply a matter of honoring the memory of all the victims of this encaveda. I can see that a respected colleague insists on reptiles. Oleg, maybe we'll just go over to Anton's. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u80	Respectful colleagues, interfaith peace and the guarantees of the country’s development. We have great respect for the Armenian brothers who live in Ukraine, who enrich Ukraine, and who are the ornaments of the Ukrainian people. But we cannot help but overlook the fact that Armenia, as a state on a national level, acknowledged Russian aggression against Ukraine, acknowledged the annexation of Crimea. We are ready to support this draft decree if we add a second point there: to address the Armenian President, the Armenian Parliament, demanding to condemn Russian aggression, to support the struggle of Ukrainians for the territorial integrity of our country. Armenia suffers as much aggression as Ukraine suffers. And we need to unite our efforts, not scatter them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have come to a discussion. Now the Peter Dust Block requires its moment. Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I would like to support this decision to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the extermination of the Armenian Catholic Church in Western Ukraine, and I would like to support it without any further, perhaps more suggestions. And that's why: it was happening. These events took place in our territory, in the territory of the modern Ukrainian State, they have a direct bearing solely on our history. We do not associate this with Armenia and today’s position in the Armenian state. But Mr. Lazko, a national MP, is absolutely right in that we should mention from this occasion that the modern Armenian state and its leaders are exclusively anti - Ukrainian, and we need to recall this in connection with the occupation of the Crimea in connection with the war with Russia. [[Congrats]] And that's why I'm asking, that's our story.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u83	Thank you. I'd like to support the chairman's rights with your permission. Let's support this decision without making any further changes, because, in fact, it's different things, historical events and other stories, that's what's happening today in modern Armenia. Dear colleagues, we must first place ourselves to confirm our return to this decision. And I'm voting for the return to the ruling, registration number 5255, on the 70th anniversary of the extermination of the Armenian Catholic Church in Western Ukraine. We're going to the Radical Party, please support this-- a return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u84	Please support, colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:37:58]] For 231 Now we put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u85	Thank you very much. And now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u86	Decision 5255, as proposed by the Committee as a whole. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please support me, colleagues, please 5255 as a basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:38:32]] For 240 Decision taken, colleagues. Hello! We passed a block of questions that the Committee of Culture insisted on. We are now moving on to two issues on which the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship insisted. First of all, 5244 is a draft law on the restructuring of the debt of the state-owned enterprise ANTONOV. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. [[11:39:13]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u87	Victor Krivenko, People's Hands of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Ukraine is still an aerospace state. And today's Law 5244, I thank my colleagues very much, in fact, for all the factions that have joined its co-authorship, is a very important law for us to remain an aviation state. In 2009, Antonova was joined by Aviant, and that was the right decision, because at the time the company was looted, it had less than two billion debts, but there were 3.5 thousand people working there who could still collect airplanes. And it's very important that that decision was made then, and these people are saved, and so are they working today. And our decision today, which is called to write down just a penny and a debt, is just a fine with the ANTONOV PD, which then took over this debt, then the state backed up. There is a debt owed to a state that does not cheat, which is set to ten years. So I ask you very much to support this decision, which is supported by the Ministry of Finance. This is a rare case where the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Committees of Profiles: our budget and committee headed by Mr. Halasyuk -- everyone in unison is working and supporting this decision because it's a state decision. You and I have emphasized that, as important as "Lviv polytechnics" and other of our technical unions, they release engineers, and how bad they leave. I want to tell you that more than 300 ANTONOVA employees are already, in these circumstances, when the company is still living, paying a normal salary, already working in Boeing's offices, in Progress' offices. They're Ukrainians, too, but we need Ukrainians to work for our companies that produce final products, not just outsources. Thus, the Society, to all the heads of factions, addressed the Supreme Council’s Head, the distinguished Andrija Volodymyrovich, a group of enterprises. Here are the signatures of both the head of the union and the managers of virtually all departments: the workshops, the main designers, the program managers. Let me remind you, that's 12,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u88	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u89	12,000 people working in Kiev. But let me remind you that this is the headpiece. It's a major enterprise, it's dependent on cooperation across Ukraine. Today's decision, taking into account the situation in which the business is linked to the destruction of the Russian direction, depends on the future of Antonova. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u90	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, dear fellow national MPs! In the world, there's actually fewer than a dozen countries that have the same cycle of aviation as we have. So this law is extremely important. When Antonov was joined by the Aviant factory, along with Antonov, there were crazy debts that this company was unable to handle in the regime that exists today. So this bill proposes the sum of the debt of 706 million to dissipate the payment 10 years before the state budget. And write down those artificially accumulated pennies and fines in the amount of 565 million dollars that lie on the shoulders of this company today and essentially threaten its bankruptcy. I would like to stress that this approach is fully supported by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. It's the right thing to do, because this is an anti-crisis action to save Ukrainian aircraft, after saving the flag of Ukrainian aircraft, the state-owned company Antonov. So I'm going to propose on behalf of the committee that we support this bill in the first reading on the basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary technical legal work, according to the decision of our committee. In addition, I would like to point out that the committee has submitted to the Head of the Supreme Council, and we insist on the consideration next week, and this is an insistence not only on the committee, but also on the faction of the Radical Party, on the consideration of a similar bill on the Southern Seas No. 5113. With regard to the restructuring of the debt to the South. Because Ukrainian space is no worse than Ukrainian Airprom. And today we also have to save this strategic enterprise. This is a principled insistence and faction of the Radical Party, and of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. Is there a need for discussion? There is a need for discussion. Please sign up from factions now two for, two against. We have a vote in eight minutes. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room. These are extremely important bills that are now coming, decisions, more faithful. Please, from Fatherland, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u93	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction at its meeting decided to unanimously support the bill relating to the restructuring of the debt of the State Enterprise Antonov. Of course, we have to support those strategic enterprises that are unique to Ukraine and to the world and that introduce Ukraine into the number of countries, a small number that have their own aircraft that have a space sector. At the same time, I would like to say that the same bill, which is registered from the "Paternity" initiative, is Bill 5113, which refers to the financial recovery of the State Enterprise Production Association "South Engineering Plant". It's also a strategic enterprise for Ukraine, and Parliament needs to immediately adopt appropriate legislative measures to enable these enterprises: both Antonova and the South German have the capacity to function. If we lose these unique businesses for our country, it will be impossible to restore them. So I urge the session room not only to support this bill, which relates to "Antonova," but also to consider in the near future, perhaps even today, Bill 5113, which concerns "The Southern." Let's not lose what's unique to us. And one more thing to say. Let's not just give them some preference, but let's give the state a government order for these companies. Then we won't have to make decisions here about their financial recovery, about the restructuring of their debts. They have to build airplanes for Ukraine, for the state of Ukraine, to rebuild our space sector. And Ukraine must be a successful country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, from "Peter Prashenko's Block" Maxim Efimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u95	Maxim Efimov, "Block of Petra Prashenko", the city of Kramatorsk. This is a unique case where we all support the national manufacturer together. And I ask that the entire room on this will unite and do everything possible to ensure that one of the locomotives in our industry does not let him die, but to do everything possible to develop it. So let's support the airline, support our domestic manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, Sergey Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, according to the support of the national producer, we often see hidden schemes and huge corruption. Why don't we ask ourselves, for example, why don't we cheat on the penny, the fines of the hotcommunist today that provide hot and hot water to millions of our inhabitants? Why, for example, did we not get any answers about the structure of these debts, no answers about their development program, at the faction that we asked in the company’s management yesterday? Why these debts were. Have there been any calls to the Attorney General's Office? Are there any investigations? What's going on at the company in general? And today our colleagues are showing us these employee signature lists. Obviously, it took a lot of time to do so. And why doesn't it take time to sit down and work out an elementary business plan to show the enterprise how it's going to work further, how it's going to repay these debts. Maybe we'll give them more money, let's add a billion or two if there's a program that shows that it's going to repay not only the debt, but it's going to pay us back this penny, because this law just makes us go into pure damage -- minus half a billion dollars of our money with you, human money. We're just losing this money that could work if we had a clear vision of the development of this company. This also applies to "Antonova," which refers to "The South," and this applies to many other dozens of state-owned enterprises, which, by the way, refer to the system of "Ukrobanprom", which the President of his veto has completely excluded from the system of government administration, the quality system of state-run enterprises. When we voted with you in Law 3062, where there should be independent and supervisory councils, where there should be audits of enterprises, there should be control over their development. These enterprises today, this is a hole, a dark hole. I don't think we can vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, two other factions did not have a word. I'll give you two words now. You had your word, colleagues. BPP's already got a word for it. There were no two factions. There'll be a vote in two minutes. I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall, now 1 minute to Dudenkov and then 1 minute to Halasyuk. Please. Debtenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u99	Andriy Volodymyrovich, Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, signed it up. Give us two minutes of our faction, please pay attention to the recording of the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u100	Don't be so tense, take a deep breath, tell me, and I'll give you two minutes as planned. Please, Matthews 2 minutes. I, for my part, would like to ask you to push the card and the mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Regrettably, those deputies who worked in the real economy today find that we have a country with a long arm. And we see that the debt pit that we all fall into today is growing every day, and we will have 2 trillion debts in our budget by the end of this year. Next year we're going to have about 2.3 trillion debts, and we're going to have in our budget. The whole industry is currently lying, the largest enterprises are not operating, and this cannot be avoided. Sectors such as automotive, construction, engineering -- they don't have clear development programmes today, they have no prospects. And businesses like ANTONOV are the foundation, bone, once a part of our economy. And we are well aware that such enterprises must work, they must fill the income part of the budget, create jobs, pay taxes. Regrettably, the banking sector of the economy today is cut off from the real sector of the economy; today, businesses are unable to fill their turnover; they cannot take credit for the barbaric interest we have in the country today. However, the following fact should also be noted. I agree with previous speakers that there is a need for a state-wide industrial support programme, that what we do not have today is clearly the need to have budget support today. What we see today is a budget, allowable programme: no comprehensive programme in the budget is available to support the basic sectors of the economy, we increase profits by 28 per cent for industrial enterprises. Where do they take what profits today, how do they survive these industries, so that they can supplement the working capital, how do they fight in the markets? That is why we clearly support this bill, but we understand that it is a punctual, one-off measure that can somehow be a transition to an integrated State programme for economic development. And in the end, the government has to comb in this direction, otherwise we'll all walk with an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk one minute and we'll go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. I want to address all the democratic and wise political forces in Parliament, including the Self-Help faction. I want to stress that the adoption of this law will not only allow the operation of ANTONS to be ensured, but it will give us a chance to develop the aviation sector. You and I have allowed international cooperation, not with one hand to build, but with another hand to destroy. At the same time, in line with your warnings and the committee supports them, that this is the work that the Ministry of Economics is supposed to do, they need to develop a comprehensive technological development programme. They have to support airplane building, shipbuilding, train building and so on, and we have to implement it in the hall. So we certainly have to support this bill, and for the future, we have to ask the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, from the Defense to a comprehensive approach to reforming and developing such enterprises. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, speaking out, of what I have repeatedly reminded you of, by name or faction, that you automatically give them the word, automatically. And the speakers, if that's what they're going to do, keep doing it, I'm just reminding and warning. One minute of Oleg Berezuk's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Help faction only supports Ukrainian aviation because the ambulance that drives boys from east to west is 35 years old and it's already two years old, 35 years old, so we support it. But now we're giving away half a billion dollars of human money. Where is the structure of the debt? Where is the business plan for using them? Minfin says you vote, and then we'll think about whether we can give them guarantees. This is how the Ukrainian Parliament says, please give us a business plan today, there is time and opportunity for that. And yesterday, the management of Antonova was on a faction of two hours, two hours of time, and no evidence of real business activity in the modern business center of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm betting on the vote, colleagues, please take the jobs, colleagues, please. Please come into the hall, we're taking jobs so we don't have to come back a few times, colleagues. I've told you three times that there's going to be a vote, and I'm asking you to take the job. I'm voting on the bill on the restructuring of the debt of the state-owned enterprise ANTONOV, number 5244, on the proposal of the committee on the basis and in general, with the necessary technical legal work. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, please vote. Please. [[11:56:26]] For 285 285 for. The draft law was adopted. Colleagues, we have another five minutes and there's a neighboring law, we'll be able to look at it -- this is a draft of the Act amending section VI, paragraph 3-1, of the Budget Code on the State Enterprise ANTONOV, 5245. I'm just asking you to be brief so that we don't part for a break. First vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:57:10]] For a hundred and I'm reporting that I'm continuing the sessions before the finalization of this bill. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u107	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, thank you for almost constitutionally demonstrating consciousness, and I would like to remind everyone that when it comes to the question of miners, we vote in the same way. But similarly, there's no transparency, too, we understand what are the leaders on these mines and how they manipulate all these things. But there's probably more of a populist effect. That's why we have to vote. And when we're talking about sanitary aircraft, it's precisely not voting on these laws that allows for almost a year of ongoing judicial review, where there are sanctions, and the Ministry of Defence cannot conclude a contract for the supply of three planes. It's the Ministry of Defense, one of which is a sanitary aircraft that we really need. So, colleagues, I urge you to support a binding bill, the more so is a reflection of the previous law in the Code of Budgets. I support a colleague who needs to vote as quickly as possible on the 5113 law that applies to the Southern. We've achieved a nonsensus with factions that we're going to bring it out in the strictest terms, because we need to support it. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Colleagues, me. from the committee. Is there a need for a committee? Please. Excuse me, two for, two for against. Just be concise, please, two for, two for against. The watermelon, please, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! I am convinced that we will now vote on this very important and timely bill to unite this session hall. I'm talking to our self-help colleagues, friends, please don't do "salt mixed," "Don't confuse straw and hay." I want to remind everyone that on Tuesday, October 18, Ukraine demonstrated to the whole world, not by word, but by deed, and we can count as a space state. And no one will stop us from doing that. On October 18th, a successful launch took place of the Antares rocketization with the first degree of rocket science produced in the South Seas, which allows the bill in the Ukrainian Budget Code not only to write down these questions for ANTONOV but also to take care of the South Seas. My friends, please, we have to support our native producer, Antonov, the South German, and then we will vote on Bill 5113, which has just been spoken by colleagues from Fatherland. We're all voting unanimously and we're going to be a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u113	Please, Mr. Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u114	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The People's Front faction will support this bill because we have to do everything we can to make sure that our aviation does exist. Secondly, we need to create new jobs, not stop working in businesses. That's why we're going to support this bill with our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u115	Thank you. It's a goose from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! Recently, the government reported on its great achievement that we had a 2 - percent increase in industrial production in the sum of nine months. But for one thing, this growth has taken place after the decline in industrial production over the last two years by 20 percent. And secondly, according to the first quarter of Ukraine, there was a 4 percent increase in industrial production. So in the second and third quarters, we have, at best, zero growth. In July there was a fall in industrial production, the fall in industrial production was both in August, and it is likely that we will have a fall in industrial production in September. Basic areas work very badly. For example, in September there was a huge problem with rail transport. This topic is already widely discussed, and, in fact, it is said that there are some problems in the Railroads that have been accumulated for years and decades and cannot be solved in a few months. This can be discussed. But the Crucifixion had a huge problem with fuel purchases, with billions of dollars in bills. Dear colleagues, fuel is purchased within two weeks if someone wants to do something and provide any industrial work in the country. The Opposition Block faction also supports this bill to support domestic aircraft construction, but that's not enough. Both the government and parliament must work consistently to restore the work of the country’s industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u117	Thank you. And the closing statement was by Yegor Viktorovich. And in two minutes, there will be a vote. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u118	In order to help with aviation, particularly Anton's, we need to start ordering airplanes, including these costs in the National Budget of Ukraine, including the same aircraft for the evacuation of wounded military personnel. You don't have to confuse the sink and support the aircraft. When the factory’s management of half a billion dollars of debt is in prison when today’s management has a clear plan not to end up with the same result, we will be happy to support such steps. And now we're just being offered blindly to forgive the budget, which is to tax payers, half a billion dollars of debt to them one decision, self-help won't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u119	Thank you. From Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And, colleagues, let's go in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u120	Dear friends, in order to understand how important this law is to our airline industry, you just need to know this area, you need to know every number, you need to understand the potential of the industry. And I'm surprised that young MPs who don't have the perfect situation in these factories, in these BBs, today they're so, you know, superficially treating these laws. I urge the House to support Bill 5244-Thank you very much. Because if we raise our industry, raise our intellectual potential, then, starting with "Antonova," from "Southern", from KB "Southern" and so on. But, at the same time, please, Mr. Speaker, I ask you to put to the vote on Bill 5113: on the healing of the Southern. Because this is another strategic direction in our lives. And so I ask everyone to vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please come to the hall, to the workplace, and we'll get as close to our cards as possible. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3-1, of the Budget Code for the State Enterprise ANTONOV (No. 5245) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please vote, please support. The government has created a special enterprise to oversee this sector. It'll give us control. Please support 5245. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:06:18]] For 281 281 for. Decision taken. And I also want to thank the drafters of the bill, and to welcome our state-owned enterprise, which has broken the deal with the Russian Federation at a difficult time for Ukraine, has set an example of patriotism. And I think it was the right and right decision. Dear colleagues, at 12:35 we will continue our work. I'll remind you that we'll go straight to the next three bills that we've included in the agenda. Mr. Sergei, the first one is 5263, he's bringing the whole room together. I think we can unify the entire hall with it. Then it's 5273. I think he's unifying, too. And then there'll be a project called Solidarity Order with the Seimas of Lithuania and Poland. And then three bills of second reading, as it's supposed to be the order of the day. At 12:35, colleagues, we return to the hall and continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you. I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for a break. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We have a limited time limit. We're about to go into discussion, but it would be important for us to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. I don't see the potential for that yet. I ask you to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'll wait a minute and a half. And I very much ask the National Deputies, I know what happens when factions meet, organized, columns enter the hall, take up jobs. I want to inform you, colleagues, that we have three bills that have been included in the agenda of the session. This will be the first to be 5263 on the status of members of the secretarial factions, signed by all factions, and supported by all. We just need to have a number of deputies in the room. Then 5273, this is the initiative of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. But it's also supported by all factions. The draft Law on Measures to Resolve the Debt of Heat and Heat-generating Organizations and Central Water Supply and Water Management. And then 5280 draft decree on the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, the Seimas of the Republic of Poland, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are our three bills that were included in the agenda. Which are the decisions of the committees and where the position of all factions is fully agreed upon. In order for us to begin the discussion, we need at least a vote in favour of the simplified procedure, colleagues. And that's why I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to also invite deputies to the Chamber. Please. Dear colleagues, while we are waiting for the national deputies to vote, I would like to give the floor to the Head of the Health Committee, Olga the Mantis, who will tell us about the action that is today symbolized by many national deputies in the Latin language with a certain symbol. And I would like to ask Mrs. Ola just for a minute to explain the essence and content of this day, this action for Ukraine and the world. Please, Mrs. Ola. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, I thank all our men and women deputies who have such a pink ribbon on your clothes today. In fact, this tape symbolizes October 20 – a day that is recognized as the day of prevention and early diagnosis of breast cancer by the President. Why is this day so important? Because in 2015 alone, 13,000 new cases of breast cancer were diagnosed by the Ministry of Health, of which 5.5 thousand women died last year as a result of late diagnosis of breast cancer. I would like to point out that breast cancer is a completely treatable problem. And this problem can be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u124	Please, one more minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u125	And it is vital that everyone bears responsibility for this. It is not only the responsibility of the health - care system, but it is the responsibility of every man present here in this room to draw his wife’s attention to her own healthy breast. It is the responsibility of every Ukrainian woman to burn her breast, if there are any minimal changes, to consult a doctor. In this case, I also want to say that 123 cases of breast cancer have been diagnosed in men. So this problem can be solved in Ukraine and just as we have been able to reduce the death rate from melanoma in the last five years, from families that are reborn by 18 percent, which is a phenomenally good figure. Similarly, if all of us together take responsibility for ourselves, for every citizen, not just for the health system. In this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u126	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u127	In this case, breast cancer can be overcome. I also draw the attention of the Ministry of Health to financing oncology.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u128	Mrs. Olya, come on, really, 30 seconds, please finish already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u129	financing oncology treatment, which the Ministry of Health has agreed to by only 14.8 percent in adults, is extremely low, and we strongly disagree with this. Similarly, the absence of funding from the Institute of Cancer and the Academy of Medical Sciences is absolutely unpleasant and we will not vote for a budget that is against the health of Ukrainians. So I ask all men, all women, to draw attention to the early.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that I will now put to the vote. We have the next draft of the law, which we have included in the agenda for decision-making, is a bill amending the Law on State Service (for the status of members of the secretaries of the MP factions and groups). This is a bill supported by all factions and groups of parliament. The next one is at least 5273 and 5280, and so I would like to support the proposal for a simplified procedure. I'm asking all the MP factions, there are not many of us in this room that support this bill's consideration, and also support its consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'd like to see the support, please ask the MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs, and I'm going to put a motion to vote for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please approach the workplaces, there will be a vote now. So I'm voting on the motion to review the shortened procedure for draft Law 5263. Please support everyone, please vote for everyone, please, colleagues, we vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[12:48:48]] For 122 Colleagues, friends, there's no problem at all, but we have a number of bills, we just won't be able to look at them. Colleagues, I'm asking you to reconsider, we're just bills that are, there are proposals from different political forces and factions and we're talking about working more effectively, there's a general position and there's a general agreement. Now, if we go into an hourly discussion, we can't take anything else for lunch. It's been 20 minutes since we were supposed to start our work, colleagues. I want to make a note, colleagues, we're once again reinstating the practice where MPs may not go to work or come in half an hour. We've already come to a positive conclusion when Wednesday is a full-time working day, but I would like the MPs to resume a responsible attitude towards the session. That's not acceptable for 20 minutes, and there are no deputies in the room. I speak to those who walk, many of them in the towers and in the dining room, and they hear me. And this is a matter for factions to raise in their meetings this question. Colleagues, I ask you again, I will put you to the vote and ask you to support this proposal, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please all factions that support this bill, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues who entered the hall, if possible, at work. Mr. Ivan, if you'll excuse me, there'll be a vote now. Colleagues, I am voting on a motion for a brief procedure for the draft Law on the Status of Deputies and Groups 5263. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:51:17]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sobolev Sergio Vladislavovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, this is one of the five bills to amend and supplement the Law on State Service that stands today, and this bill deals with a very simple issue, which is how the factions and groups in Parliament are selected. This bill brings out secretarial workers from groups and factions from the public service to the status of a patron service, with appropriate changes to the laws where the issue is settled. The request for support is agreed, indeed, by all groups and factions, is an amendment that allows for the very normal recruitment of groups and factions for work, for the work of the deputy corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u132	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Skrum Alon Ivanovna, to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u133	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, indeed the Committee on Governmental Self-Government and Regional Policy considered this bill at its meeting on October 18th. Bill 5263, submitted by the representatives of virtually all the groups and factions that are now in the Supreme Council. The bill is very technical, very simple and very short, so the committee unanimously decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. What does this bill do? You and I have actually reformed the public service, and we have already removed the secretaries of our factions from the public service. Because I remind you, they don't go to the competition, they don't go through special qualification requirements, they get fired when the faction falls apart. So they don't fall under the signs of competitive government service and career government service, but they're stuck right now because they don't apply to patronage in this law. So very short, technical remedies are proposed to be passed on to the patron service -- that's right, logical. And the committee unanimously made that decision. Also, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the placement of the secretaries of the MP factions, the groups to the patronage service is a matter of relevance, reform of the public service and may be a positive decision by Parliament. If this bill is also adopted, colleagues, I would like to ask the Committee on State Policy and Local Self-Government, when preparing the draft bill for signature, to be delegated jointly. Involve the committee in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Office of the Office of Internal Affairs, make it technical and legal, as this will be the basis for the whole as well. And please support me very much, colleagues, it's a technical, short question, but it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Please record two in favor. Two is "against". Sugonako Alexander conveys the word to Solovia, please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u135	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, this, by the way, bill that we are looking at is a powerful example of what we really need to include in the agenda of the day change to the Rules, which are recommended by Cox's mission and ultimately to optimize the work of the Supreme Council. Because what do we see in practice? This particular bill, six months ago, we passed the Ukrainian State Service Act because this law was inequitablely written and this law needs a lot of work. What do we have to do? Returning to that law after literally six months and making changes to that law. We do sadomasochism to a large extent in the Supreme Council of Ukraine because we adopt innocuous laws because these laws in co-authority go to one national MP. That's why I urge you, and the whole room, to go back to the laws of change to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to optimize the work of the Supreme Council in order to consider one law, but to discuss it qualitatively on all sides and in full procedure, not to pursue a number and as a result to lose quality and to consider what we are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u136	Thank you so much for your support. I agree with you completely that sometimes the rush to adopt laws causes us to rule and rule all the time, and that's the general problem. And so this is one of the recommendations, the white book of the previous discussion, the previous passage, and then the exit to the hall. Colleagues, I'll listen to your offer after lunch if I can ask you again to at least put us into the agenda. I'm going to count on more deputies to meet at the front of the budget, that's not contrary to the Rules. Once again, I'm going to put a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda after lunch of all proposals for the revision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and the optimisation of our work. Thank you. And I give the floor to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I'd like to agree with a lot of people who said the previous speaker, the only little trailer, the State Service Act, it was a government law, not a parliamentary law. And the committee did everything in its power to correct all the disadvantages that have been in this bill since the beginning. And the committee has considered thousands of amendments to this bill in order to bring it at least to some level in line with international standards. And what's left of the technical questions is that they really stayed. One such technical issue is the bill that is being considered. It is quite obvious that secretarial committees are not a public service in a classical sense and should be treated as a protective service, which has been done by law. But in order to settle all possible coalitions, a completely technical law is adopted, which I call upon all to support, 5263, on the basis of the committee's proposal as a whole. But in doing so, I point out to the chairman that today we have several more laws in our agenda related to the implementation of the State Service Act, namely 4388 (as regards the speciality of the diplomatic service), which was not taken into account by the government at all when the government passed the bill on State Service. And Law 4526-d, which is also, in principle, harmonized, and is of a completely technical nature, which the committee could not correct during the preparatory phase for the second reading, because it was impossible, based on the text that was, a short text that was submitted by the government to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I very much ask all the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. We are now moving on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. If I am not mistaken, all political forces, factions, and groups support the bill. The only question is that there's a maximum number of people in the room. Colleagues, they're coming in as deputies, aren't they? If there's a unanimous position, we're going to get a positive vote. Please come into the hall. Can we move on to making a decision? So, colleagues. Yes, they're going into the hall. This is a technical bill that regulates the work of secretaries of MP factions and groups. There is an interested one, both the apparatus and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that the working bodies of the secretariat and factions can work effectively. And I, my honourable colleagues, am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Service (for the status of members of the secretaries of the MP factions and groups) (No. 5263) as a basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary technical and legal processing. Please vote, please support, 5263. Please vote, colleagues, please support me, colleagues. Please vote carefully and support, we vote, colleagues. [[13:00:51]] For 241 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee and the initiators. [[Noise Nodes]] With technical law. I read it as it was written. I literally read it and it was, and it's accepted. The law was passed with the necessary technical legal work for the committee. Dear colleagues, the next bill we've included in. in the agenda for decision-making, this is a draft of the Law on Measures to Regulate the Debtability of Heat and Heat-generating Organizations and Enterprises of Central Water Supply and Water Management for Energy Consumption. Yesterday, I had a meeting with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, who outlined and emphasized the fundamental importance of this project. The bill will help to avoid bankruptcy of critical energy, water and water companies in Ukraine, help strengthen the mechanisms for restructuring their debt for energy consumption and increase their investment attractiveness. I'm sure it's a nice extension of our day last night after the residential farm and I'm counting on the support of the hall as well. And first of all, I'm betting on the proposal for a reduced procedure of 5273. Colleagues, please vote and please support the reduced procedure, please. [[13:02:30.]] For-188. 188 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Gennady Grigorovitch. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor Mr. Vice Speaker, Your Honor! I would like first of all to thank the entire body of people's deputies who have actively participated in the cooperation on this bill. You remember the 2706 vote in this room on July 4, and it was through our joint work that we worked out this bill, which allows us to take the first step toward improving the field of heating. I would like to call on the people's deputies today: if possible, please include a short slide that shows the principles of the issues that are being addressed by this bill. First of all, we have to make it possible to restructure those debts, and frankly, we've moved much better in this than even 2706, because we're practically restructuring all the debts that were created on 01.01.2016. Secondly, for 5 years it is possible to restructure the debt, after restructuring the debt, to cancel all the fines and pennies that have been counted. And most importantly, as long as the restructuring agreement is in place, fines and pennies are stopped. To be honest, every day of adoption of this law, the signing and enforcement of regulations over this law has a very serious price. So I would very much like to ask the entire body of our national deputies. I know that the committee yesterday considered this bill and made a proposal to accept it as a basis, and then in a second reading. But I would like to ask that we vote in general today. Why, because, first of all, I understand that any bill can be improved, but frankly, this bill is very difficult for us to agree with both the heat supply companies and the people's deputies, and our international partners, in order to make the first step possible not only by adopting this bill, but also by being able to solve a number of problems that concern us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u140	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u141	which will solve a number of problems among calculations in this particular market. Well, I'd also like to add that it is the vote that will allow us to make a quick decision. And you know that yesterday a decision was made on an additional 630 of the government's decree, allowing for 50 percent of the pay during the heating period, as well as the schedules. So we need to figure out all of these points so that we don't affect the financial stability of these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u142	Are you finished, sir? 15 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u143	Once again, I would like to urge all the MPs to vote today on this bill and the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u144	Thank you, you've heard the government's position. Please give the floor to Mrs. Aloni Babak's deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u145	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting yesterday, the committee considered a draft bill submitted by the government. The main scientific and expert office supports the project and gives specific comments to its parts that can be taken into account in the work of the law on second reading. Taking into account the relevance and social significance of the ongoing heating season 2016-2017, the need to ensure continuity in the provision of utility services, such as heat, water and water supply, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 5273 to adopt in the first reading as a basis. Taking into account the Committee's proposals to include in the draft new article on resolution of issues relating to the restructuring of the debt of central water undertakings and the provision of water for electricity consumption by analogy with heat-efficient enterprises. That is, after article 5, we ask you to complete article 6 as follows: “Article 6. Restructuring of debt to central water companies and plumbing for electricity consumption I will not read the entire text of this article. Its full text is given in the draft ruling given by the committee. Continue to develop the draft short-term bill and submit it to the Supreme Council on second reading. Today, it is too important and urgent to address in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner the problem of the emergence of heat, water, and water, of debt management for energy, resulting from reasons that did not allow them to carry out their contractual obligations in a timely and complete manner. We ask as a committee to support the bill in the first reading, because there are questions that need to be worked out for the second and to prepare it in a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u146	Thank you for the committee's position. Please sign up to discuss the bill: two in favour, two in front of the factions. Please, from the People's Front, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u147	I give my word to my colleague Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u148	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u149	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, a very important bill, we had a heated season last week. Regrettably, not all cities, such as the city of Nizhin, which I represent in the Supreme Council, began a heated season with a weekly delay. And only after my personal intervention, the Cabinet of Ministers, do I thank Gennady Zubka, who also joined, but we made a joint effort to start the heating season. But it is vital that such mistakes are not made in any of Ukraine’s cities. Sadly, such distressing experiences are found in other cities as well as in other areas. It is very important that the heating season takes place, not only on time, but also in constant, stable, and unbreakable. So the People's Front faction supports the bill, will vote in favour, and calls on the entire room to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the faction of Peter Dustenka, the Melnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u151	Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, 187th District, the city of Hmelnicki. I want to say that by this bill we are taking the first step towards resolving many issues. Unfortunately, today, one of the main issues is the difference in tariffs, which resulted in an indemnity of about 8 billion dollars. Also, in the heat utility companies that paid for Naftogaz's gas correctly, he counted a penny, which for the year 2015 also amounts to only about 5 billion. And it hasn't been counted yet. Still, given that tariffs do not fully cover the cost, the debt continues to increase. So we need to take a complex approach to this issue, and that's the key to halting the increase in debt. The working group defined that the issue of tariff adjustment, the question of the restructuring of a penny of fines counted, the question of tariffs, and if the governor cannot bring tariffs, we should send them back to local authorities, because we are trying to pass everything on to places today, benefits, differences in tariffs, let them then set tariffs and meet themselves. That's why I, the Petra Prashenko faction, support this bill and we should continue to move in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction from the rostrum will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u153	Dear friends, although I am hospitalized and feverish, I have come solely for the sake of this law. I know that many of the deputies in this room don't know the story of the write-off of multi-year-olds from the heat-communeration archetypes. It's Janukovich forever, so you can just understand what we're voting for. I am fully aware that inexperienced deputies do not know the depth of the question. But I hope that Mr. Pinzenik, I now call his last name to give him a replica, will just explain it to those who are far from reality. The thing is, the heatcommunerge and any cloudy, the oatmeal is a big financial pipe, and that's where consumers drive the money. And then this money doesn't go to energy companies, to NAC Naftogazu, to generations, to miners, to no one. Because there are people on this "financial pipeline" sitting there who are billions of dollars laundering money and then they're stocking up this debt structure that you don't know about today. Secondly, if there's a completely corrupt restructuring today, 11 billion dollars to explain why this money won't reach NAC Naftogazu and the budget. And who will explain why, if for five years, the debts of the heatcommunerge, the archerge, the frauds, whomever, why people, the budgetary institutions that owe them, for example, the heat and the factory, don't restructure for five years, and they get a full copy of them. I can tell you and I hope that Mr. Pinzenik will confirm this: there is no more corrupt law that Janukovic has issued almost every year. Don't support that, first of all, you have to figure out where the debt is from, what its structure is. Pri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u154	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u155	If subsidies are available, why did this hole come into existence, let them explain, they will settle the accounts. In the meantime, it's a cover-up of massive money-laundering corruption. The faction will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, National Deputy Zubad. And then the line, after the performance, I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u158	Please turn on the microphone again, Mrs. Aloni Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! Unlike the Act on "Anton," which the "Unification" faction refused to vote, we are absolutely in favour of the prescribed bill because this law establishes a transparent procedure for the formation of a register of business debt heat and water supply. At the level of the State Executive Authority, the Ministry of Regional Development will create a register that will provide an exhaustive list of the information set out in the law to support this debt. For everyone to understand that the debt involved and the register created is already the decision of the courts. 18 billion debts from 2010 to today, which are in the Heat Energo in relation to Naftogaz. The 1 billion fines that were accrued to these debts this year alone, the total amount of them is 4.6 billion, the reason for the debt is clearly known. In 2010, the National Commission assumed the authority to impose tariffs on local authorities, and these tariffs were not reviewed for a very long time, and there were differences in tariffs. In addition, everyone knows that the population of Ukraine does not pay a penny for residential services and there is a constant backlog for housing services. This sum of Naftogaz Ukraine accounts for 33 percent of the fines, this year in the contracts that companies are making today. Every day, like a snow coma, these debts are accumulated. By this law, we stop the process of repossessing old debts, foaming old debts, restructuring them, paying off the state what it owes to enterprises, but we place it on the enterprise to repay timely, full repayment of current debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u160	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u161	Of course, it's difficult because utilities basically provide services to the population, but we understand that this is exactly what it requires to restructure. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we must stop the accumulation of fines, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u162	I understand that you support this bill. Thank you very much, Mrs. Helena. Please, from the rostrum, one minute, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, mentioned during the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I'd like no one to have the illusion that it's not about writing off the debt to the population, it's not about the population. Where could the debt for the gas it uses to produce heat be in the heat supply and organization? First, the population doesn't pay. But that's not true. Payments to the population of municipal payments amount to 95 percent — almost a hundred percent of the debt. The second reason why debt may arise is because of the so-called difference in tariff prices, but they have recently raised tariffs to a level that allows us to talk about cost-effective work. You can talk about the debt of previous years and then you have to get this out of the budget debt and then, please, put it in the budget. What are we voting on, what kind of debt? This debt has arisen in recent years, is it just, excuse me, the debt of private companies that they use in their own interests? In this case, it is not possible to enact a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u164	Thank you. The Minister of Defense and Vice Prime Minister asked me to sum it up, and I can see that the Opposition Block didn't sign up for them for one minute, please. Please turn on the microphone and then the minister of profile will summarize and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u165	"The Opposition Block", Constantine Pavlov, Curve Horn. Of course, this bill doesn't solve all the problems that have accumulated for decades, but it certainly needs to be adopted, it's just a little bit of a suffocation so that our businesses can at least have a normal heating season without a break. All these debts had been accumulated for decades because there had never been a ratio of people's earnings to the tariffs they had to pay. Moreover, today the situation is exacerbated by the destructive policy of the current Cabinet of Ministers when pensions and salaries are frozen and tariffs are rising to the heavens — this is not possible in the current situation for the population. This law must be adopted and protected by Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u166	Now he's asked the vice-premier to sum up the discussion, please, one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u167	Mr. Hennaday, one second, this will be the last closing statement, so I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall, take jobs, in a minute there will be a decision to make. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! I'd like to thank all those MPs who have infiltrated the bill and wish those who haven't read it, or wish it were worse in the country than it is right now, to wish one clearly understood the essence of this bill. This is not about debt write-offs; it is about paying off these debts over five years. This is about the write-off of fines that were credited to heating companies when foam and fines were not allowed. It's about healing the sector and taking the first step towards heating and water supply, it's not about lying, it's not about private companies, it's about utilities that belong to communities today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the decision-making process, I stress, this decision-making is based on the committee's proposals. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall and I'm voting on the draft Law on Measures to Regulate the Debt of Heat and Heat-generation Organizations and Central Water Supply and Water Management, Number 5273, based on the Committee's proposals, please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. [[13:21:18]] For 265 Decision taken. The Prime Minister's initiative is supported, and I welcome both the authors and the committee for their quality work. In general. There's a denial. I'm sorry, there's a denial. The objection is that if the hall were united we would vote in general. Colleagues, you need the factions. Colleagues, next draft of Decree 5280. This is a draft of the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, the Seimas of the Republic of Poland, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for including him in the agenda today, this is an important symbolic act, and today the Seima of the Republic of Poland will accept him in parallel with Ukraine. I think it's important to take away these tensions and misunderstandings that have arisen artificially among our peoples this summer. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, 5280. Please vote. Please proceed to the summary procedure. [[13:22:42]] For-173
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I think it's very symbolic that to report on the draft of this decision will be an honorary speech by our speaker, Andri Parubai, and we invite him to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, today this declaration creates a new reality. Today, we can say that we have learned the lessons of history well. Lessons that were tragic for our common history -- Ukrainians and Poles. When we were together, we won against the same enemy, against the horde. I want to remind you that it was the united army of Ukrainians, Poles, and Lithuanians led by Prince Constantine Ostrovsky that broke up the Moscow army under Orscha in September 1514. When we were together, the Ukrainian-Polish army under the leadership of our Ukrainian general, hetman Petr Konashevič-Saydakny, won a brilliant victory under Moscow in 1618, and in 1920, the Ukrainian and Polish forces together under Warsaw saved Europe from the red communist plague. When we were together, we won. But the lessons of history have not only been well learned by Ukrainians and Poles, but our original enemy also remembers the lessons of history. So its main goal is to destroy the anti-putinian coalition, a coalition initiated by Ukraine. And I, as secretary of the RNBO, then called upon the world to unite in the anti -putist coalition. Today, we face the same challenges again and the same enemy as centuries ago. The great Poles at a time when our countries occupied the Russian horde stated: Without an independent Ukraine there cannot be an independent Poland and without an independent Poland there cannot be an independent Ukraine. Today, Ukraine again protects the free world from the imperial invasion. Today, Ukraine is a shield for all of Europe. It is the Ukrainian soldiers who hold the horde on the eastern borders of Europe and shed better sons on the front. Our Joint Declaration of Memory and Solidarity is a document that has a profound meaning, for crisis situations between our peoples arose when one side gave a unilateral assessment of our history, as it was in the summer. When I was in Poland after that, I urged the leaders of Poland to go back to the tradition that our Ukrainian diplomatic school preached -- to give a joint assessment of history. And this declaration is an example of our shared assessment of the history of our peoples, when we emphasize, not the consequences, but the causes of the tragedies that have taken place on our lands in the last century. Our declaration is the answer to the neo-Imperian Russian attack -- attacks against Ukraine, attacks against Poland, attacks against the entire civilized world. Colleagues, this is an important step when today and the Parliament of Poland will accept an identical statement. This statement was agreed upon and supported by all committees — the Committee of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, the Committee of the Seimas of the Republic of Poland and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, two parliaments will adopt an identical statement stressing that the tragedies on our lands took place as a result of the imperial politics of Russia and the imperial politics of Nazism. And it will be noted in this statement that the same challenges are facing us today. Today we are together, Poland and Ukraine. And, colleagues, if you don't mind, I'm going to read this statement completely. I'm going to take a little bit of time, but I'm going to read again to emphasize what the important points are. Thus, the Declaration of Memory and Solidarity of the Seima of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "According to the spirit of solidarity between the peoples of Poland and Ukraine. Acting on a strategic partnership between the Republic of Poland and Ukraine. Stressing our unbreakable devotion to the fundamental principles of international law and to the common protection of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and the inviolability of the borders of each of our nations. Recalling the great historical sacrifice of our peoples, offered to protect freedom and independence. In order to protect freedom and achieve the worthy life of our peoples in a united Europe. We, the representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, jointly and simultaneously accept this Declaration of Memory and Solidarity to pay tribute to the millions of victims of our nations during World War II and to condemn external aggressors who tried to destroy our independence. We draw attention to the fact that the Rebbentrop-Molotov Pact of August 23, 1939, composed between two totalitarian regimes: the Communist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, which led to the outbreak on September 1st of World War II, caused by the aggression of Germany, to which the Soviet Union joined on September 17th. The result was the occupation of Poland by Germany and the Soviet Union and the mass repression against both our peoples. Those events also led to the adoption in Yalta in 1945 of decisions that began a new phase of the enslavement of all Eastern and Central Europe, which lasted half a century. We remember that the severity of the international response to escalation before the Second World War of totalitarian and chauvinistic ideologies, the lack of a proper response to violations by international law aggressors, and the policy of progress have encouraged the Communist and Nazi regime to aggression and, as a result, the distribution of Europe. We honor the millions of victims of aggression and occupation in our countries in the 20th century. We remember the struggle of the Polish and Ukrainian national forces against the anticommunist, anti - Nazi resistance, which created a moral basis for the restoration of the independence of our nations. We believe in the need to revitalize unbiased historical research and the need to restrain the forces that lead to controversy in our nations. Note that the Russian Federation's exercise of aggressive foreign policy: the occupation of Crimea, the support and implementation of armed intervention in eastern Ukraine, the violation of the basic norms of international law and treaties signed with Ukraine, the failure of the Kremlin of Agreements and the conduct of hybrid information war pose a threat to the peace and security of all Europe. We express our solidarity with all the Ukrainian people, including the Crimean Tatars during this great test. We stress our engagement in action in favour of a peaceful solution in eastern Ukraine and the return of its territorial integrity. We stress the need to work together within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization against New Threats. And we express our support for deepening the alliance's cooperation with Ukraine and its strategic goal of joining NATO. We urge all European partners to show unity and international solidarity and to protect a united Europe from external aggression. We urge the nations of all Europe to bear in mind the causes and consequences of World War II. And make a concerted effort to protect security and freedom." This declaration was adopted yesterday by the Committee of Ukraine, Poland, and Lithuania. On the Committee of Poland, only two people opposed her. I'm not going to call it political power. She was supported by everyone else in the group. And today the Seima of the Republic of Poland is also voting for such a decision. I'm sure we should not allow the anti-putinian coalition to be destroyed. We have to stand side by side with our brothers against the occupation of Russia, as it was, friends, in Maidan. And I'm sure we'll win together! Glory to Ukraine! I urge you to support the Declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u172	Thank you to the Head of the Supreme Council for presenting this important declaration. And the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Hanni Hopko. [[B in m in s a l in]] The voices are, we're voting! Is there room readiness? Mr. Andrew, make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, if there is a need for discussion, we will certainly include discussions. If we can vote, we vote. Vote, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a need to discuss. I'm sorry. I'm asking you to include two for, two for against. I'm sorry. Gopko is the co-report, and then two is the pro, two is the opposite. Please invite the head of the committee, Hanna Hopko, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u174	Dear Ukrainians, dear Mr. Head, we thank you for your initiative to represent Ukraine in building our relationship with the closest neighbours and those who support us. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 19 October 2016, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Declaration of Memory and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft regulation should be adopted on the basis and, as a whole, that a number of amendments should be made to its text, a text which had just been read out by the Head of Parliament of Ukraine. The purpose of this draft decision is to approve the Declaration of Memory and Solidarity of the Seima of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which testifies to the solidarity of the parliaments of the countries in question regarding the assessment of the causes of World War II, the desire to prevent them in the future, the celebration of the memory of millions of victims of aggression and the occupation of our countries in the 20th century. Voicing support for Ukraine in the fight against the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, making changes is linked to the fact that the Lithuanian Republic is in the electoral campaign against Seimas, and today’s Parliament will no longer have plenary meetings. Seimas’s new composition is to be fully operational only in the second half of December of this year. That is why we, together with Polish colleagues, decided to adopt the Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Seima of the Republic of Poland, to which Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania could later join. Please support this important statement, bearing in mind that today the EU's strategy for Russia will be considered in Brussels, it is our solidarity and approval of this statement that will help our Western partners to understand clearly the causes of World War II, the consequences and how to help Ukraine ensure peace in us without any compromise with the aggressor. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please record two for, two for against. Please. From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u176	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, we had a faction meeting during the break where we discussed this draft decree. Today, unfortunately, between Ukraine and Poland, to our conviction, we wanted it to be much better. Unfortunately, in Poland today, the chauvinist forces are trying to do everything they can to argue with our two countries. I'm convinced that these forces are financed, including by Russian intelligence, because it's their blue dream to make sure that Ukraine, Poland, other European countries don't stand on one front against Russian hegemony and against Russian aggression. And that's why our national task as patriots, as people who care about the welfare of the country, who understand that only together can we stop Putin, the Kremlin's invasion and repel Russian aggression. Our task is not to give in to provocation, not to do things that will deepen our opposition, but to try to prevent Russia from achieving results. Our relationship with Poland is very important to us. And I hope that the chauvinistic forces in Poland who created the film "Volin" in which Ukrainian actors from Lviv and Ternopol also participated. Let the people of Lviv and Ternopol ask who dragged them there before the film. I hope that these chauvinistic forces will not take up the mountain in Poland and that Poland’s leadership will remember the words of their great Pole, Jerzy Hedroitsa, that Poland’s independence depends on Ukraine’s independence. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this decision and we're going to extend Poland's cooperation hand, and we're hoping for a similar one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Antonistak Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u179	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to remind you that the Order has been registered for my authorship, number 5012, on the confession of the 32-year genocide of Ukrainians by the Polish state. Instead, we see a third attempt and a third decree going around the regulations and the thinking of the people's deputies, who also have the right to consider the decree that I have passed on genocide on the part of the Polish State against the Ukrainians. So I would ask you to pay attention to this and put it first before voting on this decree -- Decree 5012 on the recognition of the genocide committed by the Polish State against the Ukrainians. We have 2 million Ukrainians destroyed and displaced, and now, of course, we're trying to build partnerships. So in order for us to become equal partners with the Polish Seima and with the Polish Senate, we are simply obliged to vote on my decision if we respect the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian people. And, of course, after that, vote and support this decision. Does it turn out that we are again looking and becoming a younger brother or something? Do we have few examples of the Russian Federation? Not a vote in favour of decree 5012, which recognizes the genocide committed by the Polish State, has led to the fact that Consul Mazur, who is in Lviv and wants to be in Lutsk, makes statements against Ukraine and we do not react. This has led the President of Israel, speaking in our Parliament, to humiliate the Ukrainian people, and we still do not respond. How long can we keep our heads in the sand? Do we respect ourselves or not? Let's become partners with our friends now, Poland and Lithuania, of course, and then vote on this decree, which you are, 5280.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u181	Thank you. I want to say that there have been no violations of the Rules. This decision cannot be to any extent an alternative to your committee. And I want to tell you, I don't need to be agitated, I've had an appeal. My family was resettled, three hours allowed to leave Lubachi, three hours in time, and then my family was sent to Siberia by Communist imperialists, where the Poles accepted it and so on by many of our families. I'm looking at the historical perspective of both the past and the future, and I think the greatest threat is from Russian imperialism. And we have to be shoulder to shoulder with all our brothers, as it was during Maidan. And that's the only thing that has the moral strength of our position, sorry, not to get into provocational burns, but to demonstrate with great moral strength, to extend the hand of friendship and shoulders. And I think this policy shows that Ukraine does not take secondary positions, but leadership positions in the regions, because it takes a strong, powerful, not historical position. And so I ask you to support this decision, this is a very powerful, strong move of the Ukrainian Parliament, this is my initiative, which I would like to ask you to support. Thank you, please. From Fatherland, Rybchin gives the word to Boris Tarasyuk. Mr. Boris, it's important to you, your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From the very beginning, I want to say that the Fatherland faction will definitely support the Order and the Declaration of Memory and Solidarity. I also want to call on all Ukrainians to support this Declaration and Order on behalf of the "Fatherland" faction. Why is this Decree and Declaration very important? Because it is actually neutralizing those anti - Ukrainian decisions that took place in July of this year by the Senate and the Seimas of the Republic of Poland. And I think that just after returning to the normal course of the Ukrainian-Polish relationship, this Declaration calls for a proper assessment of the common history, it urges us to conduct unbiased historical research and the necessary stimulation of forces. and the deterrence of the forces that lead to the disputes of our nations. It is this decision that neutralizes the negative decisions of the Senate and the Seima of the Republic of Poland. And I think we will all do the right thing if we support this Order and Declaration of Memory and Solidarity, which unites the Poles and the Ukrainians rather than separates them as it was in July this year by the decisions of the Polish Senate and the Seima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u183	Thank you. From the People's Front, Medunica passes the word Yuri Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u184	Guys, in this room, please don't go into these dialogues -- dialogues like "stupid-stupid-stupid" -- we're not going to have "hurray-patriots" -- let them leave all their desires to themselves. I want to address the brotherly Polish people first, thank the Lithuanian people for their friendship, and we have always had it. Brother, the Polish people, we are like two trees that grew up right next to each other and intertwined with roots so as not to tear them apart. Likewise, our two brotherly nations for their long history have become so united that we are together forever, we have not been separated in our history by many glorious victories, and not only those mentioned by Mr. Andriy Parobius. And not so long ago under Monte Cassino, it was our common victory, and on the graves of the Polish soldiers of the Second Corps of General Anders, there are many Ukrainian names. You and I have had differences: there have been disputes, there have been conflicts between each other, where, when, when, one, the other has won. But there was one fratricidal war. The war caused by the third party, the war in which both our peoples lost, is that war you call "the Volinian Difference," and we call the Ukrainians "the Volin Tragedy." I'm asking you, let's make sure our parents' mistake never happens again, if my grandfather killed one of your Polish brothers, forgive me, if your grandfather killed mine, I forgive you too. Together, only in our unity can we overcome that common enemy that made you the first in 1939 and the second in your plane with your President and your entire elite. Together and to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u185	Thank you. We're about to make a closing statement. From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, because some factions have been difficult for everyone and have left the hall for some reason. We'll see who it is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u186	Your Majesty, my head! The noble lords of the fellow MPs! Today, there are active fighting in Ukraine, which means that the third world war, hybrid and fear - inspiring, is taking place in Europe. World War II, solved by the eastern despot of the Russian Empire. Even today, we see the delicacy and hedonism of old Europe, which always plays with that Eastern despot without wanting to deal with it. And that's why the backbone of this Europe is in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania. These are the countries and the peoples that know what the Eastern Depot is for millions, millions of victims. Together against the eastern despot, we will preserve the values of Europe, which today is edible, hedonic, and we will preserve our nations and our peoples. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to come into the hall of all the people's deputies, prepare for a decision. And I am voting on the draft Order on the Declaration of Memory and Solidarity of the Seimas of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be joined by the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, which today will be a statement and a decision by the two parliaments, 5280 on the basis and in general by colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:48:38]] For 243 Decision taken. Hello, fellows! And I think it's a very powerful and powerful step. It's a leader's step. A step that shows the political leadership of Ukraine. We wish the Polish parliamentarians to make the same decision. And thank you for taking a decision on the basis and in general, colleagues. I'd like to ask you to be a draft of the decree. The draft Law, which has already been adopted as a basis, has put the reduced procedure under consideration for second reading. It's a big request from the government, because otherwise it won't make sense if we don't consider the simplified procedure to the second reading. And so I'm asking you, colleagues, now to support the government's proposal that we adopt a simplified procedure for the second reading of draft Law 5273. I'm asking you to support this proposal. So the short term for submitting proposals and amendments to the second reading is 5273, which was voted by most factions on the basis and I didn't put the second reading to the vote because there was a denial. Short-term procedure is very important, colleagues. Please vote, please support 5273, consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading. Please support me. [[13:50:19.]] For 208 My colleagues, I don't think they're all oriented. Look, I'm reminding you, this is about the draft Law on Measures to Resolve the Debt of Heat and Heat-generating Organizations and Enterprises of Central Water Supply and Water Management for Energy Use, this is an important social law that has received very serious support in the Hall. Now there's a request: don't put it in a second reading, because there was a denial. The request is a simplified procedure for consideration of second reading, colleagues. I think it's everyone who's interested in supporting it, I don't think everyone's just oriented. I'm going to set up again, and I'm asking for your support, your colleagues, all the national MPs. So, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal to review the short-term submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading of the draft Law on Measures aimed at regulating the debt of thermal and heat-generating organizations and central water supply and water supply companies for energy consumption. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[13:51:46]] For 225 One voice, I can see I haven't made it, I can see I haven't made it, one voice, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] I see, colleagues, I'll put it up. One vote, I'll put it in. So, colleagues, I'm not going to repeat everything, I'm just going to repeat the title of the bill: 5273, inclusion in order. Short procedure for consideration of second reading. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. Short procedure for second reading. Colleagues, I did the right thing without putting it all together. Support your second reading of the abbreviated procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support 5273, the shorter procedure. [[13:52:41.]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, we have projects coming up. We have completed all the decisions taken in the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! There are warnings that there were buttons, colleagues. I'll put it to the vote now. I ask everyone to return to their seats. I've warned and I'm saying that when I get information from the Presidency of the Supreme Council on the facts of buttons, and now they're warning me that this disgraceful practice has been done by the Opposition Block, I'm going to put it to a vote, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll put it to a vote, colleagues. This is the position of our Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, please prepare. I'm voting once again on the proposal to consider the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:54:18]] For the 220. 220, colleagues. We'll find another six votes, will we, colleagues? Shall we invite someone into the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Dear colleagues! I want to confirm that there are three national deputies on that wing. Five are still there, right? Five of them are, look. Colleagues, let's calm down now, let's calm down. I'll do it again. Mr. Hennaday, there are voices -- there will be decisions, no votes -- there will be no decision. But invite who can, there is, into the hall now. Colleagues! Colleagues, come on, attention in the hall, colleagues, I'm clearly responding to the hall's signals. So let's essentially consult. Because right now we still have the laws to read the second reading. I'd ask the committee to advise us how we should be. Do we have voices now? If you don't mind, I'll make that offer again. If she doesn't get the votes, she'll be rejected. Is that what I'm supposed to do again, colleagues? Roger that. Then, colleagues, please come into the hall of all those who support this proposal. I'll put her to the vote again. It's a few votes. And that's why I can afford to put it again. We were missing a few votes. I'm going to re-supply the proposal to shorten the deadline for submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading, 5273. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[13:56:31]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like your attention. Please, we still have three minutes to work, colleagues! We now have a second reading. Mr. Victor, how do you feel? How do you feel we can fail it? Colleagues, look, three minutes, attention in place! There is one question that unites the entire hall, which is in order of the day’s next. This is the question of the release of the Supreme Council from the co-establishment of the Watch magazine requested by the whole Supreme Council. Draft Decision on the exit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the founders of the Viche magazine. Can we put it in or not put it in? Colleagues, who want us to consider this decision now, are very brief. It's very short! If there's room will, I'll set it up, if there's not, let's take a break. Who would like to consider regulation 4009, which is next in order of the day, please vote. Please be supportive. If there's a general position -- we're going to look at it now, if not -- there's going to be a break. [[13:57:47]] For a hundred and Colleagues, there's no such position right now. Mrs. Ola, there are no votes. After all, it could have been at risk because the time had come for a two - hour break under the Rules. Dear colleagues, I'll be out of here in 16 hours. We have a 16-hour budget review, committee decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall in time. Thank you all for your fruitful and active work. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4:00, I'm counting on all the deputies to be in their jobs. Thank you.
