ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Dear colleagues, are we ready to register yet, MPs? Please come in, sit down, prepare for registration, colleagues. The registration will take place in a minute. Dear colleagues, please register. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please enable the registration system. [[10:09:32]] 324 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today awaits us, without exaggeration, a historic day, a day when we will adopt changes to the Constitution in part of the judiciary and the judiciary. This is a matter of national security, no exaggeration. Because whatever reforms we do, they break down into corrupt courts. Today, Ukraine has the lowest confidence in the courts. According to the Center of Razumkov, 81 percent of Ukrainians do not trust the courts, which is one of the worst indicators in the world. Dear colleagues, we have a chance to change that today. We have just arrived, all the national deputies, from a prayer breakfast, where representatives of all religions have prayed to give us, the national MPs, strength and wisdom in adopting decisions that would give Ukraine a fair trial. Dear colleagues, I believe we will have enough strength and wisdom to make the most of Ukraine's decisions. And may God help us. We're starting our session with the first question of status and status. But we traditionally have an application for a break from two factions: the Radical Party factions and the Fatherland faction. They're willing to take a break from the rostrum, and I invite the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lacha. And then we start with the question of court and court. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Regrettably, yesterday the Ukrainian Parliament did not take the determination and courage to decide on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on the investigation of corruption, offshore and abuse of power. "The Coalition of Panamanian Patriots," formed in this Parliament, refused to investigate the abuse of power. "The Coalition of Panamanian Patriots" in this Parliament said that you can continue to rob Ukrainians, you can avoid paying taxes, you can take money offshore. And in Ukraine, there's no body that can say no to this corruption policy. N.A.U. refuses to investigate corruption, the Attorney General refuses, the government has full offshore ministers, the Parliament has refused to investigate this corruption. Unfortunately, today, the Radical Party, together with colleagues, with allies in the opposition of Fatherland, Self-Help, Freedom, non-fractional, we don't even have 150 votes to create this commission of inquiry in order to force Parliament to investigate the corruption of power. Unfortunately, in Parliament today, we have a coalition of Panamanian patriots, for whom offshore, corruption, abuse, theft, theft of Ukrainian citizens is a purpose of life, as it were, understood. What do we suggest in this situation, our vision? I'm going to Parliament, to the coalition of Panamanian patriots, if you're so afraid of the commission of inquiry, let's at least set up a working group in Parliament to investigate political corruption, offshoreers, let's not be afraid of this investigation. So I ask the Head of Parliament, we are ready to go to the fact that I am ready to give up the office of chairman of this committee in order to unite the hall. If you think I'm politically involved, I'm not going to stand on the committee's head. Come on, you don't want a commission, let's create a working group, but let's vote in Parliament, well, don't be afraid to investigate, or else you're the very accomplices to this corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u3	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. We're going to talk about this question, and I'm sure we can come up with a joint settlement today, on this important day. And now we're going to consider the first issue of order of the day 4734. I wanted to ask if Mikola Leonidovich is already in the Hall? Yes. I'd like all of us to welcome him today with our birthday, our great patriot, our colleague, and our brothers, Michael the Prince. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. So we're going to look at the draft Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. Dear colleagues, I will not be proposing today to consider it as a reduced procedure, because, to my deep conviction, a document of this importance should be considered in full procedure. For many months, the working group on drafting this bill, of our best parliamentarians, who are the greatest experts and experts in judicial reform, has continued. Over the months with international and Ukrainian experts, this bill has been drafted, and I am convinced that this bill should be considered in full procedure. There's support in the hall, is there an agreement in the hall? Dear colleagues, is there a Philatov Aleksei Valeriyovich? Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich? Alexeyev? They're all on the committee, right? Dear colleagues, I've been informed that the committee is closing up, that the deputies are going to the hall now. There's both a reporter and a co-reporter on the committee. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The committee to consider the matter is about to conclude. And we have to wait for our reporters. Unfortunately, discussions are still ongoing. And I have a proposition and a request for you. Today we have a bill 4623 in order of the day – this is the draft Law amending paragraph 24, paragraph 24, of section VI, “The Final and Transitional Positions”, of the Ukrainian Budget Code (as regards the redistribution of local budget balances, in which government authorities do not temporarily exercise their powers). It is a bill that brought all the deputies together when we accepted it, and it calls for the general and shared support of all factions. Would there be any objection to having him under consideration right now, at the request of our Marjorie deputies from the territories of the eastern districts? No objections? Then I ask, my fellow Members, to support the debate now on Bill 4623, this is the second reading. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Kulichenk Ivanovich to report. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, this is the third time we've made the allocation of funds that are at the expense of Ukraine's treasury, the costs of the local budgets of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, which were not used on January 1st of this year. The Committee on Budget Issues has prepared for consideration in second reading Bill 4623, which deals with issues addressed. directing the remaining funds of local budgets to areas where public authorities currently do not exercise their powers. In the Rules, the bill had nine proposals, six of which were included in another edition, and three were rejected. The final draft of the bill is in agreement with Minfin. The Treasury, the Donetsk government, and the initiators of this bill. Among the amendments included, inter alia, regarding the listing of balances in the special area budget fund, taking into account their target orientation; ensuring the implementation of the settlement of the credit position of the Donetsk City Council; and ordering the settlement of compensation to the corresponding budgets after the return of the territory to the control of the State. This does not take into account the amendments to extend the targeted channelling of funds, since they do not meet the purpose of the bill, i.e. the repayment of the debt of enterprises in the occupied area for electricity. As a result of the review, the committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 4623 on second reading and, in general, as a law in the final edition, as proposed by the Comparative Table Committee to the law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u5	Yes, please. Thank you for the report. We have a second reading. Please give the word to Galasyuk. Winniku, give Winniku your word. Turn on Winniek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows! Actually, I would like to address the Head of the Supreme Council, Andriy Volodymyrovich. Why? Because, look, we don't have the Self-Help faction now and the session room, and this is a very important bill. What's this bill about? Nearly 3.8 billion dollars, which are now accounted for in the treasury accounts of the local self - government authorities of those territories that are temporarily occupied today, can be directed towards the development of those areas that liberated the Ukrainian army from the occupying forces. It's very important not to lose this bill. There was a discussion at the previous session, there was a discussion that ProZorro should be used to ensure that the funds were in no way disbursed. This question is taken into account, settled. It's all done to make this money the most efficient way to develop the damaged Donbas infrastructure. But if we don't gather today for some technical, political reason to vote on this bill, that's the answer, Donbass' answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u7	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u8	So, dear colleagues, I'd like to address everyone. Including the Radical Party. I understand that there are certain political issues, there are certain political requirements, but this is our state, this is our land, this temporarily occupied territory, these are our people, citizens of Ukraine. We need to rebuild bridges, we need to repair schools, we need to repair roads. We really need to show that Ukraine takes these territories not only on the level of statements from the Supreme Council’s rostrums, but indeed. Not only at the level of administrative boundaries, but at the level of action. So I would like to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council, the session hall. If we don't have a vote now, if we don't get votes to vote in the second reading and in general, in no way fail this bill, vote in a signal vote, ratings. And I'd like to go back to the Radical Party. Please support me. This is the Ukrainians, this is millions of Ukrainians, this is Ukraine's attitude towards those areas that the Ukrainian army has liberated. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I ask Pavelkov, head of the Budget Committee, to turn on the microphone. Mr. Andrey, say the word of the people of Ukraine. Please, Budget Committee, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u10	John Ivanovich Kulichenko has already reported on this. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the comparative table is given when the registration is made. It's comparative, it's given out. Yeah, it's signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u12	Can you tell from the committee whether all the amendments were taken into account, or were there any discussion issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u13	Not included in Amendment 3, repair of Lechchenka. I don't think we've got the six, Martovitch. And amendment 7, Sažko. That's what I was talking about in my speech. There's no concentration in the room on this issue. Self-help is completely gone. Chairman, Andrew, Andry Volodymyrovich, all questions except three amendments: 3rd, 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u14	Please finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u15	Who? Who needs a chart? The table was distributed, and I'm not preparing a session. A comparative table was distributed to everyone on registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will, with your permission, make a decision. We're waiting for the committee's decision. We don't have any factions in the room. And I use the right provided for in the Rules. So now I'd like to ask. 3 repairs, Levechenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on Yuri Lewchenk’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u17	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Yes, I insist on my 3rd amendment. The thing is, in this bill, there's such an interesting rule that some of these funds, which are largely earmarked for the restoration of Donbass, should be directed towards paying off the credit of the Donetsk City Council, which was taken in 2010 at the Ukreximbank. And I have a logical question. Why Ukreximbank? Why are other loans that have been taken by other population locations in occupied areas in other banks not also paid off by these funds? What is selectiveness? Yesterday we had a committee on Treasury and Minfin, and they couldn't explain why they were so selective and whether they had evidence that there were no other loans to other banks. So I have absolutely reasonable suspicions that there is a corruption scheme here. So my amendment suggests that this rule be excluded. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u18	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko insists on voting. Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? Yes. And I'm voting on Lechchenk's proposal. Whoever supports Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[10:29:51]] Z-91 Thank you. 6th Amendment, Martovitchki. Is it insisting? 91, no decision taken. Martovitch. Please turn on the microphone to Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! First, the comparative table was not distributed. And I insist on my amendment because, in view of the debt that has arisen for the electricity supplied to Ukraine's uncontrollable territory, and for the purpose of ensuring the energy independence of the State, I propose to add to the list of objects to which the remaining funds are allocated to the district budgets, the following lines of funding: the repayment of the debt for the provision of electricity. electricity suppliers, businesses and unpaid electricity for temporarily uncontrollable territory. Thank you. Please include and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment number six of the people's MP Martovitchki. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[10:31:19]] For 109 Dear colleagues, during the hearing there were complaints from national deputies that not everyone had received a table on the matter and not all of the deputies had the opportunity to read the table. Is that so? And so at the request of the MPs, I'm not going to put this to a vote right now, because not all of them have been able to see, but a few deputies have filed a complaint. So, with your permission, once all the documents are given out, then we'll go over the matter when all the national MPs can have the necessary discussion and consideration. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the consideration of the matter, will take place when all the documents of the deputies are in hand. And now the committee representatives are finally here, and we are finally ready to consider our key bills for today: the draft Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges (4734). And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Mr. Filatov Aleksija Valeriyovich. I'm asking you to include a microphone in the government's bed, and I'm asking you to turn on Phillat's Alex Valeriovich microphone. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention in the hall, we are considering the law of great importance. And I ask everyone to be focused and considerate. Please, Alexei Valeriyovich. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Today, we face a difficult and important challenge: two major steps on the path of judicial reform. In February of this year, you passed the Law on the Protection of the Righteous Court. This law did for the start of judicial reform what could be done without any changes to the Constitution, namely to relaunch and renew the work of the Supreme Council of Justice, to ensure the depoliticization and independence of this body and the High Qualification Commission of Judges, to re-establish the authority of the Supreme Court and to initiate the procedure for qualified evaluation of judges. This law has fulfilled its function, but more fundamental changes are needed. In early February, you had previously approved the changes to the Constitution that had been introduced to your consideration by the President of Ukraine, which ensured the depoliticization, independence and effective responsibility of the judiciary. Now you have a law, a new law on the judiciary and the status of judges to ensure future implementation of changes to the Constitution. This bill has been prepared by Council experts on judicial reform before the President of Ukraine, including with the participation of many factions. The bill strengthens the responsibility of judges; detailed rules are laid down for their involvement in responsibility; sanctions are defined, proportionate to violations; judicial immunity is limited solely to the exercise of justice; non - justice actions are compared to ordinary citizens. A new Supreme Court is being created with new functions, a new structure, and a new composition. The judges of this court will be recruited for a competition in which both active judges and lawyers and legal scientists will be able to participate. The new Supreme Court will have both a cassation function and a function of ensuring the continuity and unity of judicial practice. Thus, judicial decisions must become clear and predictable for citizens. The bill also provides for a clear distribution of powers between judicial authorities. The disciplinary function will be performed by the Higher Council of Justice, qualified by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. The qualification evaluation procedure, which is now under the Justice Court Guarantee Act, shows that about 40 percent of the judges do not confirm their ability to exercise justice in the position they hold. This bill, which you are about to consider, improves and strengthens the procedure for qualified evaluation of judges in such a way as to ensure that only those judges who are truly worthy of it remain in the judicial system. For judges who will undergo qualified evaluation and competitive procedures, a substantial increase in the size of the judge’s remuneration is foreseen. In addition, public control is envisaged through the Public Council of Virtue in a higher-quality panel of judges, both in order to carry out the evaluation procedure and in accordance with the competition procedures. In addition, a number of mandatory declarations on the property status of family ties and the integrity of the judge are introduced. These are the major innovations that the bill provides, and this is a real chance to take not the last but a very important step on the path of judicial reform. So please support this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor. And we're going through the full procedure for discussing the bill, and now, according to the Rules of Procedure, we're giving three minutes for questions. Please sign up for the interview. Turn on the record. Please, Welcome, non-fractional, your question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u23	Good afternoon! Dear reporter, our People's Control Group has offered a few basic rights and I thank you that some of them have been taken into account. But I further believe that the principle should be the position, during open competitions, to be the electronic testing of the courts in the first stage and independent testing of the standard of living for the official income of the judges, is not the second stage. It is also appropriate, in principle, that we take away the Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors' right to elect its members from the Supreme Council of Justice, which will be replaced by the Justice Council. And hand him over to the assembly of representatives of legal institutions and scientific institutions. We are very grateful to hear these fundamental points that will make the process more open and more objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u24	Please, Mr. Filatov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. I can't say I heard him very well, but I'll try to answer what I understand from the question. First, the qualification evaluation procedure will be as transparent as possible and actually provide automated and anonymized testing as part of the qualification evaluation procedure. In addition, under the qualification evaluation procedure as well as under all competition procedures, the control will be carried out by representatives of the public through the Public Council of Virtue, which will be independent of any state institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Mr. Mamchure's question, from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u27	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u28	Please turn on the Knyazevich microphone. Ruslan Knazevich. Ruslan Knyazevich is yours. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Please excuse me, for the session hall, unfortunately, has hardly listened to your speech if you can explain again, please, what is the point of the contest. Because national MPs are very interested and want to explain in what way is the procedure provided for by law? What does the term “competition ” mean? If you can do it at every stage, including at the judge's school and so forth, because it's important because it bothers the MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. As for the procedure of competition and qualification. The competition includes a procedure for qualified evaluation, and any judge, if he wants to participate in the competition, first of all, has to be evaluated. In the evaluation procedure, it will be tested according to the criteria of professional competence, the first criterion. Tools for matching anonymous tests, performing practical tasks and so on. The second is by virtue of virtue. And third, according to the criteria of judicial ethics. For what purpose is a court record, where the materials collected regarding the professional activity of the judge and the materials involved in bringing the judge to disciplinary responsibility applied to the judge, the materials sent by the National Anticorruption Bureau, the materials provided by the public and the decision taken by the Higher Qualifications Commission. Having passed the qualification evaluation procedure, the judge receives a suitable ball to allow him to participate in the competition. In this competition, depending on the level of the courts, there will also be appeal courts and the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u31	Please let Mr. Filatov finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u32	And not judges, namely lawyers with seven years of professional experience for appeals courts and ten years of professional experience for the Supreme Court, scientists with the same criteria that carry out scientific or scientific pedagogical activities in the field of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are discussing a bill of principle for our country around which there have been so many discussions in this session hall, and, at least, to urge everyone to respect each other so that some minimum silence is in the hall during the discussion of this bill. And please give the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to Leonidas Germany for the report of the Main Committee. Please turn on Mr. Hamtza's microphone. Once again, I ask the session room to listen carefully to the reporters. Yemen gives the floor to the head of the committee, Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u34	Thank you very much. Indeed, according to the committee's decision, the head is personally authorized to represent the position of the committee, so allow me to move to that draft conclusion, more specifically, the conclusion of the committee that was taken up as a result of the consideration of the issue. First of all, I want to say that just before the committee meeting was literally over, it was quite long and quite lively. We not only took part in the National Deputies and not only in the legislator’s initiative but also in the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Justice and the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court, the Heads of the Council of Judges, the Head of the State Judicial Administration, the representatives of the judiciary, the neighbouring institutions as a result of the lengthy discussion, still went to the consideration of the matter and accepted the appropriate conclusion. At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council to consider the issue, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent change law. on the judiciary and the status of judges (number 4734), considered by the committee at its current meeting. According to the Explanatory Note, it was designed with the aim of practical implementation of the rule of law, ensuring the right to a fair hearing by an independent impartial court. In order to achieve the goal, it is proposed that a new version of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, in particular, amend the order of appointment of judges and their dismissal, namely the removal of the powers of the political authorities of Parliament and of the President in matters of judicial career, appointment and dismissal of judges and the assumption of the appointment of judges only on an uninterrupted basis. A political solution to the issue of consenting to the detention or detention of a judge is removed before the sentencing of the court is handed down. It is envisaged that an institution of functionally restricted immunity of judges be established, which prohibits a judge from being brought to criminal liability for a judicial decision, for a court decision he has passed, except for committing a crime or a disciplinary action, but the judge will be held legally responsible on general grounds for actions committed outside the professional activity of the judge. The proposed changes in the system of the judiciary, such as the creation of a new Supreme Court and other courts. The system will consist of local courts, appeals courts, and the Supreme Court. In order to deal with the individual categories of cases in the system, the higher specialized courts will operate. The Supreme Court consists of 5 structural units: The Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation, the Economic Court of Cassation, the Court of Cassation and the Civil Court of Cassation, and the Supreme Court itself will be created on competitive grounds as the new highest court in the system of the Ukrainian judiciary. The bill provides for the establishment of local district courts, appeals courts in the respective districts. An improved basis for the legal status of the relevant authorities in the judicial system, including the redistribution of powers from the Higher Qualifying Commission and the new constitutional body, the Supreme Council of Justice. Yes, the CDC will be responsible for selection of judges, qualifications, job competitions, and so on. The procedure for forming, updating the judiciary has been improved, including a qualified assessment that will be carried out according to the criteria of competence. The requirements for the contents of the judicial file are being improved, and new mechanisms are being put in place to stimulate and ensure the integrity of the conduct of judges. In considering the bill, the committee comes out of the following. According to article 92, part one, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of the judiciary and the status of judges is defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. In line with certain constitutional requirements, the Supreme Council has adopted the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which, inter alia, determines the organization of the judiciary and carries out justice that operates under the principles of the rule of law, according to European standards, guarantees everyone's rights to a fair trial. In connection with the adoption in 2015 of the Law on the Protection of the Right to a Fair Court, published in a new edition of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, in particular the issue of the status of the judge, the conduct of the procedure for the substitution of office, status, order of formation of organs, and so on. The Committee points out that the substance of the changes proposed in the current law is evidenced by the fact that such changes are related to the comprehensive constitutional changes that have been prepared for Parliament's consideration of the part of the justice system that have been carried out by the Constitutional Commission, which has received a general approval of the experts of the Venice Commission, previously approved by the Supreme Council, namely the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution (registration number 3524). The Committee points out the need to meet the requirements of the rule of law principle, the legal definition of proportionally ensuring a balance between objectives and selected actions and achievement. At the same time, the Committee points out that the nature of the judiciary, the status of judges requires clear respect for constitutional principles and international standards for ensuring the independence of judges, taking into account the recommendations of the relevant bodies of the Council of Europe and the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Besides, my dear colleagues, I'd like us to re-enact the committee's proposals for the transcripts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u35	Please give me one more minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u36	What committee recommends to Parliament in its consideration of the matter? First of all, we recommend that the Transitional Positions, the Princents, determine that this law takes effect as of the date of entry into force of the Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, with the exception of several provisions which are provided for in the bill. The other one. We propose -- this is the decision of the unanimous committee -- paragraph three of the fourth part of article 11 of the bill to exclude. These are some standards that limit the process of video, the audio fixation of the trial. Part two. Part one of the first article 28 states in the following edition: "The Court of Appeal may be a person who meets the requirements of the candidates for a judge, according to the results of a qualified assessment, has confirmed the ability to exercise justice in the Court of Appeal and also meets one of the following requirements: paragraph one has a period of service in the Court of Justice for at least 5 years; paragraph two has a scientific degree in the field of law and an apprenticeship in the field of law for at least 7 years; paragraph three has the experience of a lawyer's professional activity in the court and/or protection from criminal charges for at least 7 years; paragraph four has a total job (experience) according to the requirements set out in paragraphs 1-3 of this article. Third. Item 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the minister of profile asks that the committee have more time to report its decision. Two more minutes, please. Mr. Ruslan, in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u38	Madam Chairman, I would like to be given the opportunity to speak before the end of these questions, because this is the kind of editorial that is recommended by the committee to deal unanimously with this issue. In case I miss items, it seems to me that this will make it more difficult for me to consider the matter in the session room. I'm going on. Paragraph 3 of section VII, "Final and Transitional Positions" shall be completed. The Courts of Appeal, which were constituted before the Act, continue to exercise their powers of appeal in the respective districts of appeal. Such appeals courts in the respective appeals districts shall be established and shall commence the exercise of justice no later than 3 years from the date of entry into force of this law." And last, fourth. Section VII, paragraph 17, "The End and the Transition."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u39	I'm sorry, chapter XI of "The Final and Transitional Positions" will be presented in such an editorial. 17th: "The authorization of the judges to appoint them for a term of five years prior to the entry into force of this law shall be terminated by the end of the term on which they were appointed. Judges whose terms of office have ceased in connection with the end of this period may be appointed to the post of judge by the result of a competition in accordance with the order established by this law." Dear colleagues, this is an important point, which foresees that all judges who have been appointed for a term of five years will generally be submitted to the competition, and only the results of the competition can hold the judges. At the same time, I would like to point out to the stenogram that the committee has reached a conclusion on the need to make certain changes to the law, once it has been acquired, in the appropriate alignment of budget proposals with the State Court of Justice. As soon as the National Court of Justice reaches the committee, we will initiate appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council. In addition, by unanimous decision of the committee, we recommend to Parliament, and this is not only the common will of the committee members, but also of the factions who are members of the committee, which would be absolutely fair if immediately after the adoption of the relevant bill, Parliament considered the election of those judges who have already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, please allow the interviewer time to conclude so that the committee can hear the decision of this principled bill. But please be brief, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u41	And with your permission, I'll finish. Let me just confirm that in this regard, in view of this kind of decision of the committee, we will initiate before Parliament’s leadership and before the Conciliation Council, literally at the next sessional week, one of the first questions to consider the election of those judges who have been waiting for three years to decide their own fate in Parliament’s walls. And sadly, Parliament failed to fulfill its constitutional duty during that time. I think that it is his moral duty now, after adopting appropriate changes of proportions to the Constitution, to resolve this issue so as not to leave the fate of these judges in general without a decision. Thank you. I'm done. Please be supportive. I'm waiting for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Mr. Reporter! Dear Mr. Knazevich! Mr. Knazevitch, we understand correctly that the unanimous committee has taken a decision on this bill, and you are proposing to vote today in the form of your read-out rights. Yeah? Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we have three minutes to ask the head of the profiling committee. Please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Martovicki of the Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u43	Please give the floor to the German deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u44	Please turn on the microphone, Deputy German.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, Nimchenko Vasili Ivanović, “Opposition Block”. I would like to ask the rapporteurs. Have they considered the Constitution, 126th, which provides for an exhaustive list of dismissals of judges? Did they see article 6 that the judiciary is the branch of the State? And third. Have they seen the Venice Commission, which. The decision, which categorically indicated that administrative courts took place in an autonomous manner, was a system of protection of citizens from the manifestation of the State. violations against citizens. How could you say that, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u46	Please, Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u47	I thank Vasil Ivanovich very much for asking. Vassil Ivanovich, we missed you very much at the committee meeting, your, as always, well-balanced position. But anyway, I'm going to allow myself to echo the position that the committee unanimously adopted. We are not saying that the bill will become effective until the changes are made to the Constitution. No one will allow a valid text of the Constitution to remain in the Constitution if it is not changed within the relevant period, and obviously only on it can any changes to the Law on the Status of Judges be made. So it was on the committee that we suggested that we synchronize the validity of this law. In case the relevant changes are made in the Constitution, and obviously we will have another constitutional basis for regulation, including the entire section of Justice that you just mentioned, all the possibilities for implementing law are open. That is, to implement in practice all the blank norms contained in the changes to the Constitution, so that as soon as the Constitution becomes effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u48	Let me finish. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u49	..the process of their implementation. In case.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u50	Please, National Deputy Najem, Peter Dustenka Block. Your question?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Knazevitch, I have a question for you essentially in an anti-corruption court. The thing is, we've been talking for days in this room about fighting corruption, creating TSCs. But in fact, this institution would have decided a lot of questions. Please tell me, is there an agreement between the authors on how this court will be created? How will the courts be chosen, and when will this occur? And won't it happen that we are now voting on this reform and this bill, and then we will forget about the main court that society is now demanding?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Mr. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u53	Thank you so much for asking. Well, I want to tell you that I am the head of the committee, but I am not the subject of the legislative initiative. Therefore, I cannot evaluate those proposals contained in the relevant bill. I just want to tell you, I think you know about this, as far as the High Anti-Corruption Court is concerned, a procedure has been drawn up that provides for its ability to create it, to function according to a separate law. And it is already our right with you as the only legislative body to determine in what order, in what order, in what order, in which order, in which way, in which to function, to form and in what way the judges of this court are to be elected. So I think a kind of back-up rule for a new bill gives us a field of manoeuvre and nothing prevents any of the national MPs from initiating such a bill as the rest of the subjects of the right of legislative initiative so that we can have a fairly meaningful, professional discussion on a new one, as for Ukraine, the judicial authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. The factions are approached with a request from the factions to ask questions. I want to say that the Rules don't provide for factions here, only deputies. And I have the next suggestion that, as we speak from the factions, you make your questions to the rapporteurs and we will then give both Mr. Filatov and Mr. Knazevitch an opportunity to answer questions to the minister of profile. Ask questions in the presentations. Yeah, from factions. And now for the final question, please, the National MP Musais, is non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u55	Dear colleague, please tell me whether it is possible for the second reading to introduce the standard offered by our group "National Control" as it happens, for example, in another iposa on assignment. It's about that when the President doesn't sign a decision within 30 days that the High Council of Justice will take on the appointment of judges, so that the head of the High Council of Justice will have the right to sign. Because we see that the President is not today releasing or bringing judges to the Constitutional Court, we see that the President is not signing the appointment of judges, and there is no responsibility for that. Maybe this rule should have been introduced, that if the President didn't sign, then the Chief Justice Council would have to do, for example, the Head of the Supreme Council does not sign the laws that we adopt. Please consider this possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Oleg, for asking. And first of all, I don't want to agree with you that the President doesn't exercise his authority over the judges of the Constitutional Court and the judges he appoints, he just filled his vacancies recently with respect to the judges of the Constitutional Court. This Parliament has not been able to release two judges of the Constitutional Court for a year, and we cannot go to complete the formation of the Constitutional Court. Similarly, the President has appointed judges accordingly, and Parliament has not been able to give birth to this decision for the past three years. That's the first one. With regard to the President's appointment of judges. This function is ceremonial, and it's introduced into the bill, you know, according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission. It is a European practice for the head of state to appoint judges by his decision, and it is no big deal. This is European and American practice. You know, in the United States, in general, the head of state single-handedly appoints federal judges to office, and no one in any way restricts and, let's say, doesn't question the democraticity of such a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now a recording of the performances by MP factions and groups. Please, we put it in Rules 25 minutes. And then there will be speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies, and that's what we're predicting under the Rules for another 15 minutes. Please record now from the representatives of the MP factions and groups. Three minutes. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performances of the MP factions and groups: the national MP Lasko, the Radical Party. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Will you find at least one person in Ukraine, with the exception of judges, prosecutors, and parts of lawyers, find at least one person who trusts the judicial system? I think nine out of ten Ukrainians will say no, there is no justice, there is no truth, there is no opportunity. Who is responsible for having such a judicial system? All of us. In 25 years, a system has been built to serve the interests of the authorities, to serve the interests of the oligarchs and the tiny cutters who carry the money. Does the Court Need Reform? I think that's a rhetorical question, of course. Does that version of judicial reform proposed by the President represent our faction? I'll be honest with you, no. What can be done about this situation? On the one hand, we understand that the system needs to be changed, on the other hand, we are not equipped with what the President is proposing. We offered an alternative, we tried to gather signatures in Parliament for our version of judicial reform, which envisaged the release of everyone to the same judges and prosecutors. Unfortunately, in this Parliament we have not found support for our judicial reform. Obviously, Parliament is not yet ready for radical, decisive reform, for the release of all to one, I stress, all to one judge and prosecutor, for the recruitment of new people, for the construction of the judicial system from scratch. Unfortunately, Parliament is not ready for this. At the same time, however, our political power feels absolutely irresponsible in front of society, in front of Ukrainians, to do nothing. Worst of all, don't do anything. That's why our faction, even though this bill doesn't exactly suit us, we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u60	Thank you for your constructive position. Igor Shurmi, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u61	Please give the word to Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasily Ivanovich, "The Opposition Block". I would now like to request that I, while exercising my right, inform my colleagues and especially the authors who drafted this bill, that a third, third and third draft on the judiciary and the status of judges is being introduced in the last year of the parliamentary committee and the parliamentary hearings. Are you going to find some kind of practice in the world? Of course not. Dear colleagues, I would very much like you to pay attention to the contracting authorities and the perpetrators of this bill, which you are misleading the President, and you are setting up a platform for the non-constitutional activities of the President. And I'll call you the following, just one digit. You're suggesting. You propose that the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine be dismissed in a legislative manner. Can you imagine? That's what it is, judges. It's a latent way to deal with judges. Where is that allowed? Read article 126 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to justice by an independent court. And that is unacceptable and unconstitutional. The second question is that we always say so much that the Venice Commission is the source of law, the source of international law, which speaks of how institutions of democracy, including judicial democracy, should be formed. Thus, I would like to read out to the authors the conclusions of the Venice Commission of 26 October 2015, paragraph 11, last paragraph, so to speak, where it is stated that it is necessary to leave the institution of the autonomy of the administrative courts in any reform. That's why I want to end up ignoring these principles. It is precisely because of the insolence of the founders of the Third Reich that administrative justice has emerged in Germany to prevent such shameful events and to ensure that people are brought to justice against the Power. That is the essence of administrative justice in the world. I thank you and ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Germanko. Now, here's a word for the "Peter Dusty Block" faction. The national deputy Kurilo gives the floor to the national deputy to the dove. And I'd like to pay attention, fellow colleagues who didn't sign up, "Paternity," "self-help," "will of the people" and "The People's Front." You're going to figure out who your factions are. Please give the floor to the national deputy Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u64	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, faction of Peter Prashenko. Madam Chairman, Your Honor, first of all, I would really like to address you, colleagues. Today you and I have a unique opportunity to make this day truly signifying in the formation of our state. Today we have a chance to radically change the justice system in Ukraine. I will not stop at the doctrinal and professional things of the new law, the bill, more specifically, on the status of judges and the judiciary, because everyone who wanted to, long ago, became convinced of the professional work of those people who were involved in the drafting of this bill. I'd really like to stop at another one. In 25 years of the existence of our independent state, unfortunately, our judicial authority, which is the third branch of power, has become a closed, corrupt institution that has given birth to such judges as Kyrieev and Otros, but has certainly not created a system of independent, professional justice and, indeed, fair justice. Because I would like to remind you that in many languages, for example, the word "justice" and the word "justice" have the same sound and identical spelling, for example, "justice" in English and "justice" in French. Today we are actually faced with a simple but difficult choice. Now we're with you people's deputies who came to this room after the Dignity Revolution, and we all remember that one of the calls of our revolution with you was to build a system of independent, professional, professional and just justice in Ukraine. We all remember how the previous court, and unfortunately, still functioning, fundamentally, this ingrained system of justice planted the courts for two months just because of the instructions from above. I've made my choice. The Petra Dustenka faction also made its choice. We want to change this system once and for all. We will vote in favour of the proposed bill. And I urge you, my dear colleagues, to make your choice between the past and the future. I call upon you, my dear fellows, to change this corrupt system of justice and to make a truly professional, professional and fair court. I urge you, colleagues, to build a justice system where money is not going to decide what will be the court's decision, but where there will be the competition of legal positions, and that will be the basis for a court decision. I urge you, Your Honor, to create a system of justice where we will speak with great respect the word "Your Honor" to the judge, and the judge will be responsible for making decisions on behalf of Ukraine. That's all I've just counted is in the bill. That's why my vote will be "yes." The voice of the faction of Peter Dustock will be in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u65	Let me finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u66	And I hope that yours, your honourable colleagues, will also be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Rebirth Group, Pisarenko. Head of Bondar Group. Then it's Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u68	Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party. Of course, every day dozens of ordinary Ukrainian citizens are approached by all the national MPs, entrepreneurs who face great problems in the courts, face corruption, face what they feel is either objectively wrong decisions, or prejudiced decisions, and so on. Can it be said that all 100 percent of the judges are corrupt and have problems? Absolutely not. We understand that 3, 5, 7 percent is hard to tell, unfortunately, a very bad story and a very bad image of the judicial system of Ukraine. The problem is that the highest management of the judicial branch of government over the entire period has not been able to understand that it is necessary to rebuild this system of courts, to stop petty, medium-sized, large-scale corruption and just start to change from the inside in order for Parliament to not have to radically change the system of the judiciary and not break it through its knees because of the disorientation of literally 3-5 percent of the judges. At the same time, we realize that the question has matured. We understand that today's judicial reform has the only chance to jump through and go through the first stage of very important changes, and then we'll have a normal process of updating, and those judges who worked nicely, they'll stay, those judges who had major problems that had temptations that had financial interests, they'll have to leave the system, and that's what everyone understands. That's why our party supports this step. We realize that if we don't go through this first phase today, we're going to put the question a year again, and a year later we're going to see the election periods, something else, and we're going to be able to change everything in this country in terms of the judiciary, the status of judges, the system change in general. That's why we think that if we've had the courage, if we've read and done the only more or less agreed version of judicial reform, then we have to start this way, but start not to cause any more trouble. That's why we say we're voting today. It is important to approach, form the highest judicial authorities that will make the selection of the personnel. Today, preparing a judge is a huge problem, giving a good education, a long time, a huge practice, it's not just in the street to catch a person or a student and put yoga in a judge's chair to decide the fate of the people. So this is a very balanced process. And you can't run everyone under one ridge, as some here have called for the release of all the judges. Because there are tens of thousands of cases under investigation, tens of thousands of people sitting and waiting for judges to decide, tens of thousands of civilian farm cases to solve, not to do some stupid thing. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u69	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u70	That is why we support the start of judicial reform and will vote. But we demand that there continue to be a very balanced approach and not take foolish steps that will lead to disastrous consequences. Thank you, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Bondar. Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Do Ukrainians have access to justice? Can they defend their rights in court? Of course not. In 25 years of independence, unfortunately, the judicial branch of power has finally lost confidence in society. The judicial branch of power has become an organ that Ukrainian citizens do not trust in. There is a logical question: Where can Ukrainians go if their rights are violated, and where can they find protection of their rights? That is why the need for reform of the judicial system is not merely ripe in the country. We must take very radical steps to bring the judicial branch of power closer to European standards so that the citizen understands that the ball is not governed by money, but by law, justice and evidence. So there'll be a competition in court. That's why the Fatherland faction is ready to support the steps that will be taken to reform the judicial branch. At the same time, I would like to point out that the draft bill, which was tabled by the President of Ukraine and distributed to the people's deputies, has 160 articles. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, if a bill has more than 100 articles, it cannot be voted on as a basis and as a whole. So the "Fatherland" faction urges Parliament to vote on this bill as a basis, then to pass this bill on to a committee in which a professional discussion is to take place. We also have a lot of comments and suggestions to this bill, because it's not ideal, and then the "Fatherland" faction insists on voting on an amended and revised bill as a whole. Otherwise, we will talk again about violations of the Rules in the Ukrainian Parliament. As well as, dear colleagues, we should look very carefully at the issue of retaining the judge, their wages. Absolutely. They should have a salary such that they have some protection from bribes. But, at the same time, there can't be such a wild imbalance that they're trying to impose. If only Parliament had come forward on Tuesday, really. The 4316 Fatherland Bill, which was intended to bring social standards into line and raise social standards for all citizens, was justly voted, and I understand that we could move in this direction. So I'm confident that in preparing for the second reading on the issue of retaining judges, there will be changes that will still bring justice to all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u73	Thank you, distinguished national MP. Please, from Self-Help, Egor Sobolev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u74	Excuse me. We had a very big discussion about this vote, about these ideas, because this bill is related to other ideas that change the Ukrainian Constitution. If we're talking about the bill itself, there's a lot of good ideas, and we're grateful to all the authors who designed it and offered it to Parliament. There are two things that, after consulting public organizations, with experts, we see as very important for the introduction of this bill. First. In the Public Council of Goodness, which will show the badness of judges, the fact that their standard of living does not correspond to their income should appear not only the right to inform the body that will decide the fate of the judge but the insistence on its information. We believe that, for example, if the Council of Justice receives information from the Council of Virtue from the public that the judge is living unfairly, not on income, there should be, as a minimum, a two-thirds decision by the High Council of Justice in order to disagree with that decision. Because we now see a lot in the re-testing, the Anti-Corruption Bureau has provided a lot of information to the Senior Judicial Qualifications Committee about how many judges have property, how many houses they have, how many expensive cars they have, but there are judges who are quietly undergoing this re-test. That's not right. The second idea is an anti-corruption court. Self-help thinks we should break the circle message. We don't have to wait until tomorrow to study Ukrainian judges, and one day we'll be able to get them. Our position. The Anti-Corruption Court does not just have to create it as quickly as possible, but it needs to be created in a way that guarantees the independence of the judges there. In particular, we propose that judges from the United States and the European Union be represented in the Anti-Corruption Chamber of the Supreme Court on jury rights. And they're the ones who would be looking into the cases of the top corruptionists of Ukraine. This is a very important idea that we propose to discuss between first and second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. And now I'm inviting you from the "will of the people" group, National Deputy Sergei Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u76	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Good afternoon, colleagues, present! The "will of the people" group in the first reading will support this bill, because at last we will take the first step towards breaking the back of this branch of power, which I think is one of the most corrupt. We discussed with a group of experts what is already being considered. And at the very least, eight amendments have already been made. The main thing I want right now. I think I'd like to hear what we've been talking about with our new Attorney General. This is the restoration of the Institute of Military Judiciality. Why? First. If all the courts are working under the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Code, then the military courts, they still have to be governed by the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Military judge, he's supposed to be a military officer. Why? Because he was still sworn by the military so that the military judge could come to the military, he was more mobile, he could come to the military and hold a meeting there. Not to be overlooked is the question of the State’s secret, for many of the matters that are taking place in the military and the people who are bound by the military are related to military secrecy. Therefore, the restoration of military courts will be one of the priorities for me, both personally and for many who were present in this room and who were performing their duties there, on the front. So that the guys of ours who are sitting right now, for example, he's been detained with two grenades coming into the battlement, and he's still sitting at the station. And in order for such cases to be fewer, it is this amendment that will have to be accepted. The "will of the people" group in the first reading supports and submits its proposals for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Please welcome the representative of the Yemeni People's Front, and this concludes our discussion with the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, remember this moment and the opportunity we have no right to neglect. Because that bill that's being proposed doesn't just release judges, it doesn't just change names, it destroys corruption in the courts inside. What is the basis for a corrupt system in the courts? If you can make a decision. You don’t like the decision, you go to another judge or court, and you make a deal, and you get a decision. We have cases where there are two, not even different decisions in the plenary of the Supreme Court in one chamber, but the opposite decisions in one case. That's why this bill solves the key issue: it introduces a single court practice. And then, three or four years later, the number of legal disputes in our country should generally go down in order, because you're opening the law, you're opening the case, and there's no point in spending it on a lawyer, because there's only one solution to the case, and there's no other way. All the other questions are about solving this issue. This is the liquidation of the Higher Economic, Higher Administrative and Higher Specialized Court. This is the launch of open competitions for these positions, this is liquidation, this is the resignation of the judges of the Supreme Court and the possibility of people coming to these positions who have never worked in this corruptly connected system but are professional lawyers or professional lecturers. It's also a premeditated procedure for setting up an anti-corruption court. Dear colleagues, after the adoption of this law, the judge may or may not accept bribes, but he will not be able to spend them because two additional declarations are made to the judge: a declaration of family ties and a declaration of integrity. By the "seventh knee," he and his family have to demonstrate their own expense, and the public council will be in charge of all of this. Each of these issues, each of them, is worth fighting for, each of these issues is worth blocking the rostrum and demanding its acceptance. And all of them combined into one law, that's the key question, that is the question that this Parliament, in the event of adoption, should be proud of, is that order, that's the best decision that can solve the question, the Parliament of this calling. Dear colleagues, we call for this law to be voted first in general and only then to move on to change to the Constitution. Because we don't believe that if the changes to the Constitution are accepted and the whole thing isn't voted out, it has a perspective, because there are people in this Parliament behind its walls who dream of staying behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u79	Thank you, dear colleagues. Now, according to the Rules, we have 15 minutes to record the national MPs to discuss the bill. Please register with the National Deputies for a discussion. Please, the People's Front National Deputy of Fedoruk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u80	Please give the floor to an expert in this field, Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! We now have a really historic moment, and now the situation is going to show whether really all the political forces, and everyone here is sitting in this room, they came to this Parliament in the slogans of judicial reform. Whether they are willing to support a fundamental judicial reform that will overcome corruption, overcome bureaucracy, and at the same time allow for the construction of an honest, transparent, just court. This will be a decisive test for all the political forces that are in this Parliament. Personal position of the People's Front. The People's Front will vote unanimously for this bill. We have repeatedly stressed that one of our key requirements was the total cleansing of the judicial system, the possibility of admission to judicial positions, of people who are unrelated to this system, of young, professional people. This law provides for such things as open competitions for all positions in the Supreme Court. This refers to an open competition for all positions in new courts of appeal. Also in this competition. This law provides that judges who are currently on a five-year term are judges who were appointed in the days of Yanukovich, and they will not be automatically reassigned to the competition. The People's Front faction will support this bill, because it envisions the creation of a simple, clear, open judicial system, the establishment of effective mechanisms to control the lifestyle of judges, and the execution of judicial proceedings. And we urge all the political forces to reject political ambitions and to support a country's extremely important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Musai, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Dmitri Dobrodom.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u84	Dmitri Dobrodomov, National Control political party. Having studied for a long time the very process of drafting this bill, which is important and should clearly prejudge the consequential constitutional changes, our interfractional group "National Control" has decided to vote for it. We made five fundamental amendments that would appear there. I'll remind you what this was about, which was taken into account, and that I would still insist that it should be taken into account when voting for this law as a whole. While in general, I support the proposal of colleagues, it is necessary to vote before the changes to the Constitution, so that there are no further kinds of manipulations that unfortunately do not take place. often appear in the walls of this Parliament. What are we talking about? Electronic testing, which is now defined by the law as a written test, we insist that we take away the maximum human factor during open competitions. Independently checking the standard of living, that's what it is. The life of the judges, which would correspond to their property and financial situation, to their incomes, is a key norm in this reform. The approval of judges who make more than 30 percent of decisions over the calendar year that the superiors cancel should be suspended, and they should be certified. And I thank you that the initiators of this law have taken this principle into account from the People's Control. We need to reduce the President's influence, and I'm stressing that there are more than the ceremonial functions that we're talking about. Some of the speakers are speaking. Therefore, it is necessary that within 30 calendar days of the election of the Supreme Council of Justice a new judge be signed by the President, otherwise it should come automatically. Because we know that when appointments are not signed for years, judges go to work, but they have no right to either hold court hearings or pass judgments, instead of getting money from the budget, and that's a completely anecdotal and tragic situation. Creation of an anti-corruption court. We absolutely welcome this very rule of law. And finally take away the Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors' right to elect their members from the High Council of Justice, and hand over the meeting to the staff of the legal institutions of higher education and scientific institutions. I'm asking the initiator of the law to consider this minimum but absolutely necessary standard, so that we really get a real objective, transparent and active, not corrupt, not systemic, which was in a negative sense, the Higher Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, next: People's Deputy Soloway of the People's Front, from Peter Dustenk's Block, excuse me. Passes the word Pinzenik. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm not going to touch that part of the law that applies to the status of judges. I have no reservations about this part of the law. But I am deeply concerned about the part about social issues. Can the wages of any category of workers financed from the budget be cut off from the economic situation? Can a worker’s salary by 200 times exceed the minimum wage? I'd like each of you to take the calculator and take the multiplication. 75 minimum wages are the salary of the Supreme Court judge, which is 120,000 dollars. Add to that 3 allowances: the seniority allowance is 80 percent, the academic allowance is 20 percent, and working with secret documents is 110 percent to the salary. That's 132 thousand dollars. A total of 250,000 dollars. In Kiev, the regional rate is 25 percent. Thirty-five thousand dollars! Friends, this is 200 times the minimum wage and 60 times the average wage in Ukraine. Nowhere in the world will you find such a pay-as-you-go ratio. The second question is the unique conditions of retirement. You remember the size of the pension that Ukrainian citizens receive. This law preserves the status of privileged pensions. They're not called pensions, they're called "debt maintenance." It may amount to up to 90 percent of the judges ’ earnings. That's 280,000 dollars. I insist that the standards applicable to pay and pension insurance be removed from the law. And in any case, this law has no right to vote in general. And for those of you who really want to push this law into this room in general, I want to say the last thing: Fear God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Pinzenik. Please, the People's Front People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u88	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear Native Ukrainian People! This morning there was a prayer breakfast, the Fifth Prayer Breakfast, where we prayed for Ukraine to finally come out of the war we are in. We prayed for our soldiers to provide us with safe work in the capital of Ukraine. And we've done a lot of work in this time of parliament. Today there is a rubicon, an important moment when we have to make a special decision – how to change the totally corrupt judiciary branch and change those judges, all the judges almost, on a competitive basis. This will enable us to move forward without delay, because they will ruin all the achievements of every decision that takes place in Parliament. This is extremely important for every decent MP, because, I understand what is going on with the intense pressure on certain MPs, on certain factions that they don't support this bill, they didn't vote. People’s deputies are threatened with being expelled from factions. It's a disgrace! I am very much asking all decent national MPs to make decisions and vote in favour of this bill. This will allow us to revolutionally change the judiciary's branch of power and to make progress in Ukraine's development as a European strong, powerful country. Thank you for your attention. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Teteruk. Please, Egor Sobolev of Self-Help. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u90	I would now like to address my colleagues as the head of the Parliamentary Committee against Corruption. We hope not only here in this room, but a lot of citizens who are now being investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau by the "black registers" of the "Parties of Regions" and all the people who have come to these registers, and we have, I think, very serious parliamentary control to make this investigation work effectively forward. But let us honestly answer our questions. And what court will judge people if the anti-corruption bureau makes accusations and leads to the guilt of the highest officials, both from the Party of Regions, and from other parties about the involvement of this money? Two weeks ago there was a disgraceful story when one of the Ukrainian courts had already banned anticorruption detectives from investigating correspondence on the phone of a member of the government of the Odessa Port Authority, which led to the higher leadership of the state. I simply made a decision: This correspondence cannot be used as legal evidence. That's what I'm talking about. It is very important for this law to finally foresee the creation of an anti-corruption court as soon as possible, to foresee the creation of an independent commission and a very transparent, very large-scale procedure for the selection of each judge in this court. Once again, as a self-help representative, I very much share the idea of joining the anti-corruption court of aliens right now. When Dutch investigators, when Dutch experts were investigating an MN17 plane crash that was hit by Russian military forces on Donbas, all the people who worked with them in Ukraine had a feeling of extraordinary experience, a very pleasant feeling. They saw real investigators, real experts. Therefore, we believe that the commission that will elect a new anticorruption court must include the experience, knowledge, and qualifications of other states, including embassies. We will advocate that these amendments be brought to the law and voted on. The creation of an effective, real anticorruption court will break the cycle of the judicial system. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. People’s MP Gopko gives the word to the national MP Avian. Dear colleagues, before you turn on Mrs. Bird's microphone, I would like to inform you that there has been a fifth prayer breakfast today with the participation of very many and national deputies of Ukraine, and the leadership of the state. And now our high guests are present on the rostrum. Let's welcome them, please. These are our tall guests from the United States. These are guests from the countries of the European Union. Thank you for the support of Ukraine. And for the common work that we do to protect the democratic values of the whole world. Thank you, dear colleagues. Let's get back to productive work. The day began beautifully with a prayerful breakfast. Oh, for God's sake, we have productivity. Mrs. Bird, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that one of the priorities for Ukraine is to carry out an adequate and perfect judicial reform. I would like to point out that this Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which was designed to make those changes to the Constitution in part of the justice that we are going to vote for, is just one step in this reform. Because we will need not only to adopt this law and adopt amendments to the Constitution, but we will also need to adopt and adopt new procedural codes, to undertake adequate reform of the judiciary, to make appropriate changes to the enforcement system. Only in this case can judicial reform be successful. I want to say that this bill really contains a lot of positive ideas, like removing the political influence on judges, the possibility of carrying out an evaluation procedure and clearing the judicial system from corrupt judges. Moreover, one of the positive elements is that it is obvious that the basis for the dismissal of judges is precisely the inadequacy of its actual property to the officially declared income. At the same time, what I want to say is that it's important to implement this law, because if, for example, the President of Ukraine abuses his ceremonial function, then obviously we can't eliminate completely political influence. If the High Council of Justice, which will then become the Supreme Council of Justice, does likewise improperly exercise its powers and conducts the evaluation procedure inadvisably, the reform may not work. Therefore, by laying institutional grounds for its implementation, it will be extremely important to monitor how the reform in question will be implemented. In addition, I want to point out that this bill offers us changes to the system by means of a judicial system, and the corresponding changes are proposed to introduce the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property. I have already addressed with the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine to the members of the Committee of Legal Policy and Justice, where we have stressed the need to create not only a higher court that will specialize in intellectual property matters, but rather to combine this specialization with issues related to the consideration of competition disputes. These disputes are equally important and difficult and require specialization. This idea in the legal market has been discussed for many, many years, and competition disputes, more than that, are sometimes compatible with intellectual property disputes. So I really hope that at the development stage of the individual changes to the procedural codes, this is going to be taken into account, and we're going to create a higher specialized.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u93	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u94	And we're going to create a highly specialized patent-competitive court. And this will meet exactly the requirements of society that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Bird. Dear colleagues, in literally five minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision on this impeccable issue. So I very much ask the people's deputies, who are now in the towers or somewhere outside the session hall, to approach the session room. And the closing word is now given to the co-connoisseurs. Two minutes, please, Mr. Filatov, Mr. Knazevitch, head of the committee, and Mr. Minister Petrenko, Minister of Justice. Two minutes later, Philatov, Knazevitch, Petrenko. People's deputies are meeting in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u96	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the advantages of this law. I just want to say one thing, this, along with the changes to the Constitution, that you still have to vote for in the second reading, is going to be a huge step forward. And while these are not the only steps already taken in the path of judicial reform, it is these steps that will determine whether or not we will receive radical changes in the justice system. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u97	Please, Mr. Knyazevich, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u98	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to take away once again all the fears that have been echoed here on the grounds that this bill might become valid for the Constitution, and therefore it would be contrary to the Constitution. On purpose, the committee and I, together with the representative of the legal entity of the legislative initiative, came to the conclusion that the so - called procrastination rule would become effective. Once again under the stenogram to take off all of, say, warnings. This law can take effect only if the changes we consider today take effect immediately after the matter has been considered. As soon as we accept the relevant changes, and the changes to the Constitution provide that they will become effective three months after publication, that is, somewhere, there, about the first decade of September, from the day they become effective, this law will become effective. It's important. And the second. I would like to point out once again for the transcript that if the Supreme Council were to deal with this issue, they would certainly have to be taken into account and heard by me on behalf of the committee that agreed to the committee. The language goes again, and this is: paragraph three of the fourth article 11, delete; part one of the first article 28, set out accordingly in the text that I have spoken and paragraph three of chapter VIII, "The Final and Transitional Positions", to be completed by a new paragraph, second of the content that I have sounded; and paragraph 17 of chapter III, to be added in a new edition. Well, and so does the Act of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Minister, three minutes because so many questions were raised about the salaries of judges and other positions. Please provide a final explanation. And, fellow Members, I would like to address the leaders of parliamentary groups and factions: very many national MPs are not in the room, please mobilize your political groups and factions to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! The moment of truth is actually happening: we are probably voting for the most important reform since Ukraine's independence -- a reform that says that Ukrainians can get justice in the courts in those institutions where the state was supposed to provide them with justice and law, and that was not the case for the last 25 years. There are many discussions about when it is necessary for this law to be passed. I want to remind you all that over the last two years, the Supreme Council has been trying to make appropriate changes and reforms to the judiciary, and that was completely groundless, and there were no results. Why? Because the judicial lobby and those courts that we inherited from the Yanukovich regime were holding onto their chairs. That law, which is now being proposed, which takes into account all the proposals made by both the expert and the public environment, provides for an absolute renewal of the Supreme Court, the appeals courts and the opening of positions for those judges, which are 1,800 judges appointed by former President Janukovic. So I urge you very much, and I ask you to go to your work responsibly and vote on this law as a whole with those proposals that have been made by the respective national deputies and the committee. If we don't pass this law with you now, it will never be voted. Without this law, the cleansing of the judicial system will not take place; we will not get a new face to the Ukrainian court. The second reading may cool him down, and then the judicial reform will just fail. I call upon all the national MPs, and I very much ask you to vote in favour of this law as a whole. Because this law provides an opportunity and hope for Ukrainian citizens to obtain an honest, independent, and fair trial, to obtain a judge who will be governed by law and justice, not by direction or money, as has been the case for the last 25 years. And today’s vote is a sign of whether we will make this judicial reform, or will it fail? Because changes to the Constitution are not enough to bring about real judicial reform. This is an implementing law that will start the day after it becomes effective the process of forming new courts and a set of new judges. And then finally, the technical paper. The chairman of the committee gave all the suggestions that were made on the committee, including key and basic proposals. We've clearly determined when the new appeals courts will be formed, we've given access to appeals courts not only to acting judges, but, basically, they've given the competition, access to competitions for lawyers who didn't work in the system. And another thing is, we've actually introduced a rule that those judges who were assigned to Yanukovitch can't be automatically reassigned, this is section XI, paragraph 17. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I want to correct you, you said chapter VII, "The Final Positions," is paragraph 17, chapter XI, "The Final Positions," so these are legal details. But in fact, I'm addressing the Ukrainians, so watch out, now the moment of truth, this law has to be voted on in general and for the judicial reform to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, well, I see. Please give it to Alexei, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to pay special attention to the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, who read the relevant papers before. It's a 3-4 correction, he noted section VIII, "The End and Transitional Positions." This is chapter XI I would like to confirm that under the transcript, the head of the profiling committee confirmed that this relates to the changes to chapter XI.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u103	I'll ask you again, repeat your proposal and suggest how I should put it to the vote. Turn on the microphone. Knyazevitch, Knyazevitch. And I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, to formulate as I have to, for the transcript. Turn on the Knyazevich microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm sorry, there really was a technical error. This is chapter XI and section XI, paragraph 3, and section XI, paragraph 17. In this regard, I reaffirm the committee’s decision to recommend to Parliament that the prescribed draft Law be adopted on the basis and, in general, that the head of the committee should take into account the stenogram of positions adopted by the committee unanimously as necessary during the time. And please, if possible, after the adoption of the Law, entrust the committee with the technical and legal drafting of the bill, as we often do. This, given that it's a new draft of the bill, it's more than 150 articles, and believe me, we need to do all the technical stuff, including the spelling and grammar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I understand your position. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter, and I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall, and I ask the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, I see that a large part of the deputies are missing. I very much ask the National Deputies to invite and enter the Hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you immediately, I'll make an offer then, so we can vote, work without interruption at 12-12. 30. And I'm asking you to consult with the factions to support this proposal, please. So that we can work from 12 to 12.30 on a continuous basis. I'll make this proposal immediately after the law. Now, if you'd like to come into the hall and take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm going to do it now, I'm going to make an appeal to the Radical Party so that we can find an understanding so that they can participate in the discussion and make a decision on this issue. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, have they all entered the hall? Is everyone ready to vote? Dear colleagues, this is one of the most important laws on our agenda. And it gives us a chance to have a full replacement of judges in Ukraine, it gives us a chance to destroy one of the most corrupt spheres in our country. And it's everyone's responsibility, and it needs decisions as quickly as possible. As I recall, we were all indignant when the criminal corruption courts released us, how indignant it was that the Ukrainian court released us and allowed the further escape of Dmitri Sadovnik, the commander of the so-called "black mouth" of Berkutu, who was involved in the shootings of members of the Dignity Revolution. There are a lot of people who have suffered and knew what "black" "Berkut" is and what this specialty is. And so, dear colleagues, I am convinced that this decision needs to be made as quickly as possible. I am approached and spoken of in keeping with the Rules. I'll remind you of the poster on the first barricade in the Dignity Revolution, it said, "Sorry for the inconvenience, we're changing the country." Under that poster, our boys were protecting Midan. And so, your honorary colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal: the draft Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges (No. 4734) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:00:56]] For 281 281 for. The law is passed, colleagues. Now I want to put a motion on the vote so that we can work without interruption from 12 to 12.30. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to support this proposal. Who supports the proposal to work without interruption from 12 to 12.30, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:01:33]] For 247 Decision taken. This is a responsible and important decision that shows that deputies are set to work. And, honourable colleagues, today it is proposed to review the draft Law (registration number 3524) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (justice). And I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of today's session, and I'm asking you to support this proposal, my colleague. So the inclusion in the order of the day 3524, changes to the Constitution. The one who supports is the one we vote for. I'll support you, please. [[12:02:28]] For 266 Decision taken. According to the requirements of part seven of article 149 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Changes to the Constitution need a full discussion procedure, and we'll go that way. And I invite you to the report of Vice-President Alexander Valeriovich Filatov of Ukraine. We're up to 10 minutes in time. But I'm going to ask you as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u107	Alexei Valeriyovich! Alexi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u108	Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Now before us, as the Ukrainian Parliament, there is a need for you to take a second even more important step: to approve Bill 3524 on amending the Constitution of Ukraine on justice. And this is the same bill that has to define the way the whole sphere of justice is developed and functioning as the third branch of government, the judiciary, for years, and has to lay a new foundation for the justice system in Ukraine. The bill twice received positive conclusions from the Venice Commission, which fully meets European standards. I would also like to remind you that this bill is the product of an expert opinion, of the work of an expert environment, which the Constitutional Commission has been working on for more than six months, and in this way, as it has been proposed by the Constitutional Commission and approved by the Venice Commission, it has been submitted by the President of Ukraine for your consideration. Three main issues that resolve these changes to the Constitution. First, it's depoliticizing and ensuring the independence of the judiciary. Second, it's the creation of a responsible judiciary. And third, it's refueling the judicial corps. On the first question, it is a matter of removing all political bodies from the judicial career. Questions of appointment, transfer and release of judges will be referred to the constitutional non-political body, the Supreme Council of Justice. The custody, custody, and arrest of the judge are transferred to this very body. The question of appointment of judges on an uninterrupted basis, without any trial procedures, is also addressed by this project. The political neutrality of the members of the High Council of Justice is ensured. There's a transparent competition and it's a rule that's first introduced at constitutional level at any position in court. The second block is the increase in the responsibility of the judiciary. This is about restricting judicial immunity to functional immunity, and the judge should use immunity only for his role as a judge, while exercising justice, but in all other cases he must be likened to a common citizen. A very important rule is that failure to confirm the legality of a judge’s sources of income is the basis for the judge’s dismissal. The grounds for dismissal are clearly and comprehensively defined at the constitutional level, and the procedures for bringing the judge to justice are simplified if there are appropriate grounds for that. And the third block. These are active tools for upgrading the judiciary, supported by experts from the Council of Europe. A qualified assessment of everyone is introduced without excluding judges on three criteria. The judge in this procedure has to confirm his or her conformity with his or her position from the point of view of professional competence, integrity and conformity with ethical rights. The bill also foresees an increase in professional standards, an increase in the age of judges, and an increase in professional qualifications. Another question. The functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office are linked to European standards. And the chief function of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to uphold the public prosecution in a court of law. The institutional capacity of a lawyer is being strengthened. Appropriate guarantees of its independence are provided at the constitutional level. And for the first time, it becomes institutionally one with the prosecutor's office to ensure that the trial is equal and competitive. The work of the Constitutional Court is improving. A new institution of constitutional complaint is being introduced, which will give every citizen who considers that in his case the court has applied a law that does not correspond to the Constitution, to appeal to the Constitutional Court accordingly to resolve the matter. These are the major innovations, the distinguished national MPs that are foreseen for this project. This project is not the only one, but the main condition is the beginning of fundamental changes in the justice system. So now or never, I ask you to support this bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u109	Thank you. I'm inviting you to the interview. No, it's us first. Question and answer, 3 minutes, please. Three minutes to ask the reporter. Please record. Heroshenko Anton. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u110	I would like to say that today we have voted, without a doubt, the age-old Act on Change in the Judiciary. And today we are simply obliged to support the changes to the Constitution. These changes will allow the judiciary to settle in a few years'time, ensure that fair, orderly judges come to it, create conditions for their work, and thus make real conditions for Ukrainian citizens to feel true justice. Our faction will fully support the changes to the Constitution. And I call on other factions and major MPs to vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Mr. Alexia, thank you for the presentation. I have a question for you. It is known that the draft Constitution postpones ratification of the Rome Statute, with possible ratification for three years. I'm asking you to explain what caused this delay. Because it is known that Parliament has already adopted a declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, which in fact means that we have taken on the maximum of the duties that the State can perform before the International Criminal Court, but have deprived ourselves of the rights and capabilities of actually influencing the definition of staff, that is, the employees of the International Criminal Court, who will deal with crimes against humanity committed during the Euromaidan and occupied Donbassa. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. I'd like to say two things. First, when we make decisions, especially at the constitutional level, we have to take into account not only legal and legal issues, but also military and political issues. The other one. We are at this stage, whether we like it or not, but there is no way to make any changes to the project. And I want to point out that this project could be considered early this year. We've spent quite a lot of time these three years, and we've spent almost six months already. If we continue to delay voting for this project, we will also spend the last time remaining. Therefore, we must now support this bill, vote in favour of it and vote in favour of the ratification of the Rome Statute when the Constitution gives this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u115	Thank you. And the last question is Yuri Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u116	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Colleagues, we probably don't do a court revolution today, and we probably should have done it another year and a half ago. But today we have to take a few important steps towards judicial evolution, because the liberation of many judges, the election of new judges based on competition and public engagement is definitely an important evolution. And my question concerns one of those, which is always repeated by one of the most famous Ukrainians, Mr. Gavrilishin, he says that no economic success, reform and economic growth will be without an independent court and without the protection of investment, without the protection of entrepreneurs. I have a question. How this judicial reform will respond to equity in the area of property protection, investment protection, so that Ukraine can finally receive the flow of such investments and start economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. I would like us, including in this room, to have no illusions, this decision is not the final solution and this is not the end of judicial reform. This decision, which gives us a huge window of opportunity to make judicial reform, to ensure that the court in Ukraine is independent, to deal with disputes and other matters in accordance with the rule of law principle, in accordance with national and international law, and in such a way that it gains confidence both inside Ukraine and from those investors, as national and foreign investors, who are to contribute to their investments in the development of the Ukrainian economy. If we don't open this "window," we don't have that chance, if we open this "window," we're still going to have a lot of work ahead of us to do, and that's the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u119	Thank you very much. Question - and - answer time is up. And I give the floor to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice to Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let me remind you a little bit about the history of this question, perhaps it will help us to make a completely conscious and, as far as I am concerned, the right decision. On 26 January 2016, the President of Ukraine, using his constitutional right, provided for in the 154th article of the Constitution, introduced to Parliament a bill registered under registration number 3524 to amend the Constitution in part on justice. Immediately, on January 27, 2016, at its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice recommended that Parliament unanimously consider the draft law set out in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine as urgent, and support the decision to include it in the agenda of the parliamentary session and to refer it accordingly to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On January 28, the next day, Parliament considered the matter. As a result of lengthy and completely meaningful discussions, a majority of the constitutional composition on the inclusion of the mentioned issue in the agenda of the session and the referral to the Constitutional Court was decided. On 30 January 2016, the Constitutional Court adopted a finding that the Constitutional Court considers that the amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine do not conflict with the requirements of 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution, nor has it raised any objection to the unconstitutionality of any of these provisions by any other provision of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the kind of conclusion that is required under the Constitution to consider and approve the bill in Parliament’s walls, a previous session of Parliament on February 2 was held on the subject. And as a result of a lengthy and, again, as far as I am concerned, a completely meaningful, reasonable debate, Parliament has decided to approve the bill in advance. Accordingly, we are now in another session, reminding myself that 155 articles of the Constitution and 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council say that if there is a positive conclusion to the relevant article 157, 158 of the Constitution of the Constitutional Court, and if the Constitutional Court has not made any warnings to the text of the bill, then at the next session, and we are now in the next session following the previous approval of the bill, Parliament may consider the proposed bill and finally decide on its adoption as a whole. Taking into account the decision of the Conciliation Council and the fact that the bill is the subject of consideration at today's session of the Supreme Council, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at this morning's meeting, he met for an extraordinary meeting and once again, after discussing the above-mentioned rules of the bill, he came to a unanimous conclusion that he would recommend to the Parliament a draft law at registration number 3524, which would still be adopted definitively as a law. Since the relevant conclusion of the committee was adopted unanimously, the head of the committee responsible for the parliamentary session asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hear the recommendations of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice and submitted by the President of Ukraine as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the justice of registration number 3524, issued by the President of Ukraine on 26 January 2016, to adopt definitively as a law. Please be supportive. I very much hope that there will indeed be unanimity in support of the hall on this important issue. Thank you and I'm ready for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up for a question to the head of Mr. Knazević’s committee of profile. We have been asked the questions for three minutes according to the Rules. These are all questions and answers, please. Please, National Deputy Barna, your question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u122	I'm not going to ask you a question. I'm going to say my position. The Ukrainian people made Maidan to overthrow the Yanukovich regime. The Ukrainian people are protecting our land in the east in order to build a better future and a better future for our children. We demand change, people demand change, and these changes will start with a change in the judicial system of power. And in order for us to change, we need to make reforms. And these reforms, my friends, we must support the opportunity of the new government, the government, the President to reform the country. So I urge everyone, let us be constructively united for the sake of reform and for the future of our Ukraine and our children. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u123	Thank you. So it wasn't a question, it was a replica. Hence, the question follows from Chumak’s national deputy, who is not a frivolous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u124	Victor Chumak, out of fact, 214 Qiyiv County. Dear colleagues, no doubt what is happening today is very important for the country. The reform of justice is one of the major reforms that needs to be established that justice can be achieved in the country. But I do have a question. We've just passed an epoch law with you, a new law on the status of judges. Please tell me, can you establish a new legal order in the state by completely incorrect methods? We've broken the Rules several times now, we're still breaking the Rules today. I'd just like to remind the authors of this law, it's not bad, it's good, it could be voted for, but in the first reading, it removes the very low standards that most of us have been talking about. Today the same is happening again: without discussion we will, again, adopt those bills that require a very broad social debate. That's impossible and they won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u125	Please, Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u126	Mr. Victor, since the question to me is probably from the point of view of procedure, I'm not ready to answer, but I want to tell you this. The point is that the bill you're talking about is about making changes. More specifically, the new version of the Court of Justice Act and the status of judges does not take effect at the same time. Its effectiveness is envisaged, if we now properly vote on the changes to the Constitution, only three months after the changes are published, that is, somewhere in the middle of September. Until then, we have plenty of time with you. If you think that some things have to be further adjusted or corrected, then by appropriate changes before this edit that has become effective, try to make changes. If even we don't have enough time or perhaps some objective situation, nothing will stop him from becoming a law, becoming fully operational, making changes to it. Because, as a matter of fact, the reform process is not a one-day process. If you've seen this bill, it's a process that will stretch for years, probably for a few years, at least, I think it's three years, maybe more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u127	Next question from the Briginian People's Deputy, "Peter Duster's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u128	Practically every meeting with the electorate, with the citizens, begins or ends with what we claim to be our case. Today, a law that can change the situation is finally passed, and I hope that changes will be made to the Constitution. And I've just heard that everything is going to last, and it's going to take a couple of years. I'd like you to tell me, Mr. Ruslan, how long before people can really feel that justice has become fundamentally different by adopting changes to the Constitution and the new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u129	Please, Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u130	I'd be happy if it happened that we have a Higher Qualifying Commission, which is now in stock -- let me remind you -- 14 people, and this law gives them a huge bonus in the form of two more people, 16 people physically have to carry out all of this reform for a reasonable amount of time. If you understand what number of judges are talking about, well, right now in the system about 8,000; as a result of the restructuring, it's going to be smaller, but I don't think it's much smaller because Ukraine is a big state, and everyone in every corner of Ukraine has the right to equal access to justice. So this process can't be one minute if we want it to be a quality process. We have to do competitions, we have to teach judges at the judges' school, and we have to do a final examination of virtue, of illustrative testing, of special examination, so that no one has any questions about the judges who are going to go through the competition, so that we don't have to make the mistakes that we're trying to make again as a result of the haste.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u131	Thank you, dear colleagues. Questions to the coconspirator have been completed in accordance with the Rules. And now we're going to talk about the question, and we're going to talk from the MP factions and groups. I ask you to sign up representatives of the MP factions and groups to address this issue. Record, please. Thank you. The leader of the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, is invited to the floor. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, during the chamber of this Parliament, we have seen a number of times that one or more judges have been brought to this bed, the judge has read the sentence from the rostrum, and the Parliament has voted in favour of bringing them to responsibility or dismissal. At the same time, we saw 200 or 300 judges on the rostrum, read their names, and offered to take them to work. When one of the national MPs rose, he suggested that this judge or another was a briber, and that it must have determined the fate of the judge, which he was not at that time. he was not appointed, or perhaps he was not even a briber, but he had an unfriendly relationship with a national MP. Our faction has never voted in favour of such actions, because we thought it was a repeat of the 37th party election, when people were just so accused and they were turning it into a completely uncivilized court. Today, after considering the changes to the Constitution that are being proposed, we understand that people in Ukraine need to change the judiciary, and this system that didn't work when Parliament was conducting it can be changed and, according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, can become civilized and correct. So our faction, after considering the changes to the Constitution, decided to support them, to support the bill, viewing it as the first step towards reforming the judicial system in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u133	Thank you. Please welcome a representative of the People's Front. Will Mr. Timoshenko speak or pass on the word? Mr. Hamtza? Leonid Yemen from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! "The People's Front" is responsible for its words and, as promised, after the adoption of the whole Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, to which effective judicial reform is effectively ensured, the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine should be upheld. Why? Because the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, which we've talked so much about and the support given to so many national deputies, is worthless and incompetent without changing the Constitution. For example, it is impossible to release judges for the inadequacy of their property status as declared, the information declared for today’s Constitution, how it is impossible to eliminate the rudiments of the Yanukovic and Kuchma regime, such as the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Higher Civil Court. This can only be done by adopting a new text of amendments to the Constitution, which, frankly, is not ideal, but in conjunction with the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, will provide our country with a real judicial reform and will allow us to implement the only judicial practice, to upgrade the judiciary at the expense of not judges, but lawyers and scientists at 90-80 percent, and finally allow the Ukrainian to feel that it is fair and fair and, above all, an independent court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u135	Thank you. Please welcome Alexander the Briginian of Peter Dustenka's Block. And I would like to draw the attention of colleagues from other factions who have not signed up for the factions, please provide information on who will represent the position of your factions when discussing this important bill of amendments to the Constitution. Alexander Briginetz, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u136	Please pass the word to my colleague Sergei Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u137	Please turn on Alexei's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u138	Thank you. Court reform is undoubtedly one of the key reforms of the country. Reform at the constitutional level of judges is a necessary measure to ensure that we have the necessary foundation to reform the judicial system in the country. For the first time in Ukraine, the judicial system will be really independent of other political institutions. The Constitutional Commission was working on judicial reform, on changes to the Constitution, with the participation of the best professionals, both national and foreign. The Venice Commission fully endorsed the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine and recommended it before its adoption. The main positive points in the Constitution of Ukraine are the removal of the political influence that is expressed in the abolition of the judiciary for the first time, i.e. the removal of the trial term that has been referred to by international institutions all the time. Moreover, the authority of the Supreme Council to place arrests, arrests, and arrests of judges has been lifted. It is a rule that courts are created and eliminated by law, not as before, by decree of the President of Ukraine. There are full grounds for the appointment and release of the courts, such as a violation of the obligation to confirm the legality of the source of the proceeds of the property, which is the basis for the release of the judge. It's going to be in the Constitution the norm of direct action. If a judge is unable to prove the origin of his income or assets and expenses, he may directly be released from office. For the first time, the Institute of Constitutional Complaints of a person who directly refers to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, that is, now all natural persons can refer directly to the Constitutional Court. The age - old professional prices for candidates for judicial office are increasing. A competitive principle for the appointment of a judge is introduced. An assessment is made according to the judge’s position under the criteria of integrity, professional ethics, and competence. The immunity of a judge from absolute to functional immunity is limited. The Venice Commission and the international community have been pointing to this too all the time. The court’s decision is subject to review. We know what the situation is now, and the Venice Commission has repeatedly pointed to it. There is an increase in the level of legal aid, and only a professional lawyer can represent the interests of the court. And it compares the institutional and the prosecutor's office and the attorney's office, and it comes out at the same institutional level. The Peter Prashenko faction will support changes to the Constitution. We urge all members of Parliament to vote in favour of the changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Please give the speech to the self-help leader of the Oleg Berezuk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the national council! The Constitution, as the Basic Law of Ukraine, is a document that is impeccable, for each of its letters, each of its words, expression, and coma affect millions of people. Therefore, hasty decisions in adopting this law are wrong. Moreover, there is experience. We've made a lot of decisions with you as a parliament in the area of the judicial system. You remember, almost the same words that we heard in the vote for the Fair Judgment Act. What happened? Why didn't these beautiful sensations work? Because there is no free regime called oligarchy to change. We voted for fantastic things in the Attorney General's office. What happened to them? Where are these young professionals who were supposed to go to the Attorney General's Office? It has been cemented for many years by a body that will not become a body that oversees the rule of law and punishes those who violate it. So given all of this, we're saying that this Constitution and these changes that are produced here have two parts. There are a few beautiful sensations and novels that are attractive. But, unfortunately, under the cover of those sensations, there are things that will tarnish this Basic Law of the State. And there is a great danger of disappointment, and it must protect the interests of each individual. Yes, we can free the judges, I emphasize. Who's gonna pick them up? Over the next two or three years, it's a full monopolization of a set of judges. Some judges will not even go through with it. The next is the monopolization of legal services in the country. It's a completely misunderstanding of the role of the prosecutor's office in organizing the trials. These are many things that invalidate the value of the Basic Law of a country that should not have double thoughts and double functions. The oligarhat can use it to finally cement its regime with good intentions. And the last. The Self-Help faction has decided to hold back to signal to our society, to signal danger and attention. This could be preparations for the decentralization vote in the Constitution and the elections in Donbas. We suggest that we continue the discussion and make the basic law one that protects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u141	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u142	..and each letter, word and sentence will protect every citizen for decades to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are they willing to speak from the "will of the people" group? None. Are they willing to speak from the Rebirth Group, to present a position? I can't see. Please, are you willing, Fatherland, to present your position? The Fatherland faction, which one of you is speaking? None. Radical Party Light, will you be speaking from the Radical Party? None. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to a record to discuss this issue from the Ukrainian national MPs. According to the Rules, we have 10 minutes, 9 minutes. I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, when we discuss the text of the amendments to the impeccable bill, we must first understand what social consequences it will have. Amendments to the Constitution are not changes to an average law that governs only one of the sectors of our nation’s activities. So when we talk about changes in the Justice Block, it's very important for us to understand what laws are going to implement those declarations that are so intensely proclaimed: it's a matter of the work of the High Council of Justice, it's a question of the activities of other bodies, it's a matter of the prosecutor's office, it's a matter of the attorney's office and a number of other clusters of issues. Without getting a response to all these challenges, we can't be sure that the things we're talking about: fair trial, equality of all citizens -- will actually be achieved. That's why it takes further discussion for us to take all of these things together, which we've been talking about for so long, both within the Constitutional Commission and within the Council on Judicial Reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Olena Babak, from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u146	I give up my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Save your time for workmates. National Deputy Chizmar, from the Radical Party. The national deputy of Chizmar also refuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u148	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. This bill is very difficult to accept in this difficult situation, because the Constitution of Ukraine clearly notes that it is impossible to accept changes to the Constitution during war. By our vote, we will confirm that Parliament, the highest authority in Ukraine, does not recognize that there is a military state in Ukraine, which is military aggression. In doing so, we acknowledge that there is civil conflict on Donbas, not military aggression. That's why we're admitting that Crimea wasn't "cut off," it was a "peace referendum" without the participation of foreign troops. What are the consequences of this in an international legal sense in the future? This means that we confirm that we have no aggression, and Russia is still a peacemaker, not a party to the conflict. I think every well-known international lawyer, and likewise every conscious politician understands the consequences in the future that we create. We cannot make any claims to Russia. As far as the fight against corruption is concerned, we are told by this bill. I think that every Ukrainian citizen and every parliamentarian understands that this power cannot fight corruption, it can lead it. Therefore, no changes to the Judicial Order Act, no changes to the Public Prosecutor’s System, have led the government to fight corruption and its destruction, and today it has been led by the authorities. And only full reintroduction of power, including parliament, including the higher authorities can save this country from further corruption and usurpation of power in Ukraine. So the law that is now being passed in violation of the constitutional principle that laws are being adopted to enforce the Constitution and have first adopted the law, and then to implement it, the Constitution tells us that we have violated the basic principles of the constitutional process. I think that under these conditions, I cannot and will not vote for this bill personally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u149	Thank you. The next national MP, Yvchenko, conveys the word to the national deputy of Hope Savichenko, please turn on the microphone of Lady Hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u150	Please turn on the microphones. It's on, isn't it? People's deputies, now, today is a very important day. And we need to understand, yesterday we're already ours, our government is not going to forgive the people, it's not the option anymore. If other ships of previous governments have sailed anywhere in the heat of the country, we're on Titanic. Yesterday we gave our first breakthrough without supporting the offshore commission without even supporting the issue. Today, we must make an important decision. Yes, clearly, the court needs changes, and everyone understands very well that the law is "cheese," well, we took it up to the first reading. If we had the opportunity to work with him in the Supreme Council, we would have to make sure that we have the necessary additions. What's going on now? There are changes to the Constitution, I'll explain. Who knows what a grenade is, imagines the rest of it, showing what an espander is. We have Ukraine, that's a grenade now. She has a check -- that's the Constitution, actually, the ring -- the Constitution. There's a check, it's Donbas. And the main body of grenades is our Ukraine. We take a check with the body of a grenade and we shake the Constitution, we throw the ring away. Now try it, this is our power, and in our hands is Ukraine, which explodes, breaks. The spring of the check wants to detonate from the grenade. And take the espander and hold it in your hand as long as you can, and take the grenade into your hand and hold it. If the authorities can keep Ukraine whole after the constitutional changes, then we can make changes now. If we're not ready, will our check come -- Donbas, LNR, DNR, will it, will it say, have you changed the Constitution? Now, here's our Constitution, written by the Russian Federation, accept it. This is where the body of Ukraine comes out, this is the main body of the grenade, it's going to come out of Midan, and it's going to tear us apart. Do you understand? So please consider every decision, because if it were a grenade, you know what would happen. Think about it. I'm not ready as a national deputy, I have little experience than you do, I understand, but I'm not ready to make such a responsible decision. I will vote against the changes in the Constitution. When war is not affected by the Constitution, the Constitution protects itself. If we touch the Constitution, it's a deadlock, if we're ready for trial, a judicial reform that we won't argue about anymore. But if we put up a block right now, and the people will say, the judges pay a lot, and we'll say that's the way to Europe, because we need visas and we need determination, you know, Ukraine will break up. You're not that strong a fist, understand? We're here, Titanic, with a hole on board. We can't hold Ukraine, we can't hold the grenade! So you can understand that when a grenade is thrown like a man being killed in captivity, somewhere, they tie a grenade, they pull a ring, and you don't throw it away so you don't kill yourself, in an apartment, for example, any. And you keep it, sooner or later you get tired, you'll let it go anyway. We're dead, we're dead, the people won't forgive us. Very careful of the Constitution. I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Nadia. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, people, Midan demanded a change. Today’s reform is required of us. the failure to overcome corruption. The future requires us, children, to create a new Ukraine. Corruption, criminals must be punished and only a reformed law enforcement system can do so. The changes to the prosecutor’s office have led to the fact that messages are actually being sent to sales officials, prosecutors, judges, and now they need to be judged. And when we're talking about populism, lies and cynicism, I'm talking to my self-help colleagues, that crime is inaction, that crime is delaying the reforms that are needed right now. So I ask you to support the reform of the judicial system, just as we have reformed the prosecutor's office together, and we want to bring this to an end, we are thinking about our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u153	Thank you very much. Krivenko Viktor Mikhailovich is invited to the floor and this will be the final talk in our discussion. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u154	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, good afternoon! Viktor The People's Movement of Ukraine. All the political forces that went to the power that went to the elections, they all unanimously and unanimously said that war was not the reason for the lack of reform. Everyone talked about undoing the inviolability, and why hasn't this changed so far? Everyone understands that this is a change to the Constitution. Today, in fact, there is a war going on, but leaving the judicial system the way it is is the biggest crime that can now be committed against the state. In no way does this apply to matters of national security. I support Mrs. Nadia that we should be as careful and as balanced as possible. Although, personally, I have stood for a more radical path -- to free all the judges who are in Ukraine today. Those against whom there are no warnings and who are being selected may return to work, that is. This option is more compromising, it is softer and therefore needs to be voted for. And I urge you to take responsibility and vote either in favour, or against, to make it clear that as few people as possible have been held in this matter as possible, because this is the Constitution that is the fundamental question. Now with regard to the amendment of the Law on Sudokus. Neither I nor Paul Kishkar as members of the People's Movement voted in favour of this law, because after voting changes to the Constitution it would actually become anti-constitutional. And I think it's wrong for many of the things that are mentioned in it. We have to vote in favour of this law because war is not the reason for the lack of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our next MP is the Chicken. But we only have one minute. Please, next on the Chicken list.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Today, indeed, is a decisive day in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Today, there must be 300 votes in this room to amend the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the judiciary. And I think, and I'm really saying that these 300 votes today are like 300 Spartans who have protected ancient Greece from the enemy, and today these 300 voices are supposed to protect Ukraine from corruption, from crime. We will never overcome corruption or crime if we are caught and others let these people go. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address those who today are concerned about the changes in the Constitution, as if in conditions of war. When, if not now, is this necessary? When, if not now, should we implement today the harshest anti-corruption legislation we voted with you last year? Friends, let's be brave: breaking the back of a corrupt system! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to join all the deputies in the hall. And I want to inform those who raise their hand. Dear colleagues, I have no authority to give outside the list that is here to be testified to, colleagues. I can't put outside the list that the MPs signed up for. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. We have the next one recorded for Chubarov Rephat. And I'm happy and honored to give him the floor to speak. I'm asking you to turn on Rephat Chubarov's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u158	Please pass it on to Ariev’s colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u159	Dear friends, we can argue a lot about nuances right now. But there is one truth, one truth. Please tell those who have experienced the full power of this criminal judicial system that has been formed in recent years, whether you are in a situation that is now in place. I want to ask those who understand that today in that country with which we are fighting, which is our enemy and who is judging our opponents today, it is illegal to judge the judicial system as it is today in Ukraine before the changes in the Constitution. And if we want to separate ourselves from the "Russian world" if we want to go to the European judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u160	I'm asking you to give me more time, two more minutes. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u161	If we want to go to the system of European justice, namely, this bill is approved by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, we are obliged today to support it for the changes that have been initiated in Maidan. Because if we trample on the ground, then the people won't forgive us for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! This is my MP's e-mail in just one day. And I think you as a national MP get the same mail every day. What is 90 percent of the letters that come to each of us? This is a request to help, first of all, in matters of judicial absolute impartiality. And, indeed, there is a check on Ukraine today and there is a war. But this war continues on the diplomatic front and in this sessional room, and so does it today. The defense is often held by lawyers who seek to protect ordinary Ukrainian citizens in the system of lawlessness. As national deputies, what can we do about this situation? We can, in fact, either give up our responsibility and simply write letters to judges, or take responsibility and vote for changes to the Constitution in matters of constitutional reform. If we really don't take responsibility today, we have to say honestly to every voter, every political power that two years ago when we went to the elections with you, we made a false commitment when every political power promised in its programme to carry out constitutional reform on the issue of justice. And here comes today the time of truth, to carry out your electoral slogan. Because I want to point out that all the deputies still present in this session room, and in every political faction, and in the party, that commitment was. What, then, prevents him from doing so today? And what's most surprising about this situation, I want to say, personally, to me, as a person who was present in a lot of constitutional reform discussions, including on the Reform Council, where one political force and one political faction supported all of this, said yes. Why, then, does the idea change today when a seat is defined by the point of view? I appeal today not only to the MPs but to the voters. Learn very carefully today, as one has voted, for it is not just a matter of responsibility or responsibility but a question of fulfilling the commitments made to the electorate just two years ago. Among them was an end to judicial injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, many of us were at prayer breakfast this morning, and we asked these religions to give us enough strength and intelligence to make important state decisions. We need to understand that judicial reform is not needed separately by someone: Dustenkovi, Paris, Groissman or faction heads, this is primarily necessary for every Ukrainian who meets everyone in Ukraine with corrupt courts. Here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, gathered politicians who have gained the trust of people. It's not experts, it's not political scientists, it's government officials who have to be able to make decisions, decisions that are needed by the states today. And people are waiting for those decisions. I want to tell you that Ukraine is today the leader of the European Court of Human Rights. Of the 65,000 cases, more than 20 percent have been filed against the State of Ukraine. We have the most problematic link in the Ukrainian state, these are the courts. And we have the opportunity, and it's a big responsibility, right now, to make this decision. I call upon all members of the people to respond responsibly to this decision. I want to support the decision of the "Radical Party", which unlocked the rostrum, went to a faction meeting to take a responsible state decision, and they realize the importance of considering the issue today in the hall. Dear colleagues, today the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Also in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the political party "The People's Front" Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk participates. Let's welcome Arsenius Petrovich. [[Applause]] The president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear Mr. Prime Minister and dear Ukrainian government! Dear and dear national deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Supreme Council, today. Thankful that Parliament has found its strength in the most important and perhaps most difficult time in Ukraine’s history to unite. To unite by destroying the aggressor country scenario, which spreads rumours that there is disunity in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Parliament is unable to adopt neither the Constitution nor the laws nor reform the country. Your most important decisions, which you have demonstrated in the last week, starting with the ProZorro Bills in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and completing the drug bill, are proof that the country is being decisively reformed. Thank you for that. [[Applause]] And this happens every day. And I'm on the front, too, and I'm meeting Ukrainian heroes, Ukrainian Armed Forces fighters, other forces. And the key message we have from our fighters: we can only win if you, Mr. President, you, the Honourable Ukrainian Supreme Council, you, the honorable government, change the country. Change the country, that means it was all for nothing. And today is perhaps the most important stage day in this change. What's going on in this room today? It's a very important event. We give the Ukrainians the right to the truth. We return to the Ukrainians the right to justice. We are fighting for a fair trial in Ukraine. Yes, we're doing this for investors who have to come to Ukraine and create jobs, pay taxes, and ensure economic development. Yes, we do so to fulfill the international obligations that we all have undertaken before international organizations. But first, we do this for the Ukrainian people. Each of us, during my presidential campaign, you, each on your own circuit or party list, promised that we would protect the right to justice, protect the Ukrainians, change the judicial system, and ensure that it was fully rebooted. This is a very difficult decision, my dears, and there is a fierce opposition to our determination in the country. But without us making that decision today, there will be nothing. For the past two weeks, my presidential desk in the office has been overwhelmed by the appeal of our friends from all over the world. Our partners: the leaders of the countries of the European Union, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, our partners from the United States and Canada, and, by completing Australia and Japan, showing their indifference to the future fate of Ukraine, have addressed me as President and you as parliamentarians not to stop in their decisive progress in reform and in carrying out judicial reform in Ukraine. The entire Ukrainian people and the whole world are now waiting for our determination. A positive assessment of the reform of the Constitution, which was developed by my mandate as a team of the Constitutional Commission, which consists of national MPs, the best constitutional scientists, international representatives, has received many positive conclusions. At the first stage of the drafting of changes to the Constitution, all the recommendations that were sent to us were taken into account in the introduction of the draft amendments to the Constitution to the Supreme Council. You remember that I even went to the point that the draft changes I had already submitted to the Constitution had been revoked, and most of your comments were taken into account, and the overturned. Now I have once again learned that I have done the right thing because I am proud that this project brought the hall together. A recent professional evaluation by the head of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, was particularly important to me. According to him, the project reinforces the independence of the courts by strengthening the High Council of Justice and removing opportunities to influence the career of judges, both by the President and by the Supreme Council, and by any other political power. The head of the commission also notes that the project provides a constitutional basis for the cleansing of the judicial system from corrupt and incompetent judges, cancels the judicial integrity that is nowhere in the world (this is the rudimentary of the Soviet system), and fully meets European standards. I stress that there is now no more important reform than judicial reform. We have taken huge steps to combat corruption, and thanks to the strong position of the Supreme Council, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau has been created and is equipped to ensure its independence. A National Anti-Corruption Agency has been created. A specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office was created. But it's all in vain. It's useless, because with loud arrests, with the heavy arrests of corrupts that millions of dollars are being pulled out of the pockets of the marked S.B.I.U.U.A., military bills, then the judges for 30 silver coins are released. We were ashamed to look into the eyes of the families of the Celestial 100, who were criminals and murderers who had been released from prison, and immediately disappeared from Ukraine when they found themselves in the Russian Federation. A lot of other things, when you squeeze your fists and you think, well, how can you put up with that? At the same time, as President, you have no right to intervene in any particular court case, but we cannot remain inactive. The only thing we can do is reboot the judicial system, and the judges have to come to the bench with honest, unengaged, unpoliticized, patriotic, professional people, and this constitutional reform opens the way. I wanted to thank all those national deputies who in early February endorsed the changes to the Constitution in the first reading. To resolve the doubts of those who have taken a draft amendment to the Constitution with some mistrust and various warnings, a very reasonable decision has been made, along with a draft amendment to the Constitution for a second reading bill, where the bill has been demonstrated, in what way will these changes be implemented? He answers the questions raised in the draft amendments to the Constitution, how will the reform strategy of the judiciary be implemented? This document is a testimony to the sincere and good intentions of the reformers, who have been brought into the circle by leading Ukrainian, international experts and national MPs. And I took all the responsibility and all the criticism of the judiciary branch, and I made this bill. The draft Law on Justice and the Status of Judges highlighted this by introducing the best ideas and best practices in the world. He also took into account the unforgivable experience that has been accumulated in Ukraine over the past 25 years. I want to thank you, honourable national deputies, for supporting this project, and we now have only to ensure that it is in conformity with the Constitution by voting for amendments to the Basic Law. I'm sure we'll make a major change in the judicial system. The right to a fair trial has been initiated in accordance with the Law on the Right to Qualifying Evaluation shows that quite a large number of judges do not support their respective positions. There are statistics now that more than 40 percent of judges simply do not pass a higher qualification commission or even go to trial. That's never happened before. Judges who had villas, yachts, expensive cars, walked and passed quietly, even teaching others how to live. And today, as a result of our determined actions with you, we have stopped this process. Moreover, today, the left hand side of the National Anticorruption Bureau, the left hand side of the detentions, refers to the unchallenged by the judges themselves. Thus, changes to the Constitution along with the new law will ensure that the judicial system remains genuine, worthy of judges, and that new experts are selected for the remaining positions for open competitions. It is very important that we propose to create a new Supreme Court, with a new structure, with a new composition. And the judges will be recruited for a competition in which both judges and scientists and lawyers and legal professionals will be able to participate. I emphasize that we are maximizing the process of appointments and not just assignments, but also transfers, and the dismissal of judges, by handing over these functions to the High Council of Justice. I volunteered to get rid of a whole series of court decisions immediately or during a transitional period. And as a result, both the current president and the next person to come to this post after me will have an exceptionally ceremonial role at the time of appointment of the judge. And I stress that this is consistent with the constant European practices and recommendations of international institutions. For judges who are successful in their qualifications, as well as those who will be recruited for the new competition, the bill provides for a substantial increase in salaries. We're not that rich a country that can support poor, corrupt judges and low wages in the competition. I'm sure it's the right decision. I'm very happy that you, honourable national deputies, have risen above the traditional struggle between defect and opposition and most of you, the absolute majority, have decided to support the draft changes to the Constitution in part of justice. I am convinced that this is a test of maturity for the entire Ukrainian political elite, a test before the people of Ukraine, a test before our partners, our international commitment under the Treaty of Association with the European Union, where black and white are written: a constitutional, judicial reform. We have with you, my fellow countrymen, a real opportunity to make this fundamental reform of quality and to realize the Ukrainian dream of restoring justice, justice, and fair trial. I ask you, Your Honor, dear national deputies, not to lose this opportunity. I would like to quote again Mr. Bukikkio, head of the Venice Commission, from whom I started my speech: "If the amendments -- he writes -- are not accepted right now, no one knows when they can be implemented. It looks like this either now or never." Yes, reform will require continuous improvement, and here are all the possibilities in our hands. Let's stop wasting time, and let's now take a gun and signal the most important reforms we have planned. I, along with the Head of the Supreme Council, with the Prime Minister, with the National Deputies this morning, took part in a prayer breakfast, asked the Lord to bring in every Ukrainian family the welfare, wisdom, mutual respect, patience and love, and justice, by the way, to bring in what is impossible on this sinful earth without a fair trial. In my presentation, I asked honest fathers for a blessing on this godly cause. And I want to inform you: I have received this blessing. And I give you the request of the Reverend Fathers to support constitutional reform. [[Applause]] I conclude with the call to forget party differences, to remember that our beloved, our only one for all of Ukraine, always wanted only one thing: freedom and justice. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u166	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues! Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to report that today, in fact, the government of Ukraine is taking part in our meeting today, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman. Let's hear it! [[Applause]] They're all gathered in this room today. Now, from this rostrum, I want to go to the Radical Party that went to the meeting to get them back to the decision-making room. I hope they can hear me. I hope they come back to the hall now. Because, dear colleagues, there are times when politics must be put outside. In my first speech, when speaking on this rostrum, when I was elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I said that I needed to be able to see Ukraine through politics, to see the state through politics. And I'm sure today is the moment when we have to put all the differences behind the parentheses and make a national responsible decision. The discussion on this issue is concluded, and we are moving on to a decision-making process. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is considered acceptable if it has been voted in favour of at least two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or 300 national deputies. This makes the vote of all national deputies especially responsible. Dear colleagues, just a moment, we're waiting for the Radical Party. One more minute, we're waiting for the Radical Party. Please, 30 seconds, and we'll move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, we're waiting for all the deputies to gather. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report that we are moving towards the decision-making process and asking the national deputies to enter the decision-making room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to be quiet in the hall, I very much ask you to stop your emotional distress and I very much ask you to prepare for your decision. We're waiting for all the national deputies to enter the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council once again to inform him that there will be a vote and ask him to invite the deputies to the Chamber. May I have your attention, Your Honor? We're waiting for all the deputies to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, the faction of the political party the Radical Party requests one minute so that they can return to the hall. I think we have enough respect for our colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, so we can wait a minute for all the deputies to be in the hall. Dear colleagues, one minute I ask you to wait before making a decision. One minute. Please don't leave the hall, stay put. Dear colleagues, please remain seated. That's a big vote. And we need to show respect for our colleagues so that they can participate in the discussion. Dear colleagues, the text came to me, "Let's go." Just a minute. One second, they'll come into the hall. Please don't split up. And welcome to the Radial Party of Light. All deputies are in place. Colleagues, [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, my dear colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 149 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" puts to the vote a motion for the adoption of draft Ukrainian Act No. 3524 amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice). People's deputies, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:23:59]] For 335 [[Applause]] Decision taken. The Act of Ukraine (No. 3524) amending the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted. Hello! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, please don't leave. Dear colleagues, we have a few more questions about judicial reform. I strongly request that the deputies remain in the hall, so please. We have several important issues of judicial reform that have already been discussed, and all we need is a decision. This is bill 2506a. This is a draft of the Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities. 2506a, respected colleagues discussed, is supported by most factions. Are we ready to vote? Yes. I'm betting on a 2506a vote on a second reading. You vote, don't you? Dear colleagues, we thank the President of Ukraine for his participation in our meeting. [[Applause]] Happy birthday, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, please, for one minute, Alexeyev, remind us what this bill is about. But I'm asking you one minute and not longer, guys. Please. Alexiev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of you that we are now considering the bills of 2506a, 2507a, which have been tabled by the President of Ukraine as urgent, which have also been put in place to implement the initiatives for judicial reform. I want to remind you that they were, on April 21, we were looking at them. Please support the room, taking into account the amendments made to the transcript when I reported them on April 21st and taking into account the technical legal development of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on Organs and Persons who Forced the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities (2506a), as amended by the transcript of the representative of the Committee of Alexeyev in the second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues, second reading and in general. Please. [[13:27:40]] For 239. The law is passed. The next passing law. I remind you, Self-Help, you supported this bill, and you were its co-authors. 2507a: The draft Law on Executive Conduct is also fully discussed, in second reading and in general. Colleagues, may I have your attention and return to your workplace, please, colleagues? I put to the vote the draft Law on the Implementation of 2507a on second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote 2507a in second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:28:29]] For 253 The law is passed. Congratulations to the authors and welcome to the committee. And the last one in this chapter is the bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the consolidation of government regulation of financial services markets (2413a). Everyone has confirmed this bill and it is fully discussed – fully discussed. Are you ready to vote on it? I am putting in draft Law 2413a, which has already been discussed. I'm told he's not in agreement, company. And if he doesn't agree, I won't put him on. Colleagues, we're going to fail him now, we're going to fail him. If he doesn't agree, we're just his failed, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, next question. Colleagues, we don't get together that often, and I very much ask you to work hard. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare, now we have the next one in order of the day, the draft of Law 3062 is next. After that, I'll remind you, 3822. We're completely overtaken by both of those bills. I'm asking everyone to pay attention. First, 3062: Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation and subsequent amendments to the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. We can both see them, and I'm asking you to settle down and work in the hall. I am now considering the next bill, which is in order of the day, this is the Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the administration of public and municipal property with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[13:31:09]] For 228 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 18, 2016, the Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the administration of public and municipal property cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of this. Among other things, the law that came into force was to establish that a state-owned unitary enterprise, a company with a statutory capital of more than 50 shares, a portion of which belonged to a State or a territorial community, as well as 50 percent or more of the shares owned by an economic society, part of a state, 100 percent of the territorial community, published information about its activities, except in cases established by law. Information to be made public is covered by the law, for example, by information about contracts that are part of the relevant companies and companies that contain household obligations that are interested and, or significant, economic obligations, including their essential conditions, as well as all the specifications, changes and additions to them. Moreover, information on the activities of the above - mentioned companies and companies that are subject to mandatory publicity cannot be referred to information with limited access. First, it should be noted that such an approach creates unequal management conditions for state and municipal economic entities compared to those of other forms of property, which in turn violates the constitutional principle of equality of all property subjects before the law, provided for in article 13 of the Basic Law. Secondly, the legal obligation to publish individual information, including by state-owned enterprises of the defence and industrial complex and by stock companies operating in the specified complex, poses a real threat to Ukraine's national security under the anti-terrorist operation in the eastern part of the country. In view of the above, the President proposes to amend the Law to take into account the need to ensure and implement the constitutional principle of equality of all property rights and national security interests and to supplement it with the provisions according to which the organization of activities and the mandate of the APC’s supervisory boards will be governed by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u171	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u172	They will be defined by the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Public Property Management in the Defence and Industrial Complex. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u173	Thank you very much. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich is a co-reporter on the subject. Dear colleagues, we know the position of the committee, and I'm asking you to record two in favour. There is already Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, please invite him. Andrew Volodymyrovich, Ukraine awaits your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Welcome to the adoption of judicial reform, the changes to the Constitution. As far as Law 3062 is concerned. We accepted him, but he was returned with the President's proposals. In view of the fact that the specifics and standards of the Defence Complex Act were not taken into account. The Economic Policy Committee has worked out all of the President's comments, amended and unanimously supported by the Economic Policy Committee. And we recommend that Parliament accept the text proposed by the committee, the right column of the table in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u175	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u176	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the bill now: two for, two against, please from the factions. Please, Oles Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u178	I don't think there's a rule in the Rules to discuss when there's a President's veto. I propose to put this bill to the vote and to support everyone, both as an MP and as a member. from the faction, and as a member of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u179	Thank you. The chairman of the committee is asking for a closing line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u180	The bill was returned with observations. All the President's remarks regarding the harmonisation of this law with the Defence Complex Act are included in the table, so I ask all MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of Bill 3062. I'm asking the National Deputies to return to the session room. And now we have to make a decision with you in that editorial, which was reported by the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Andry Ivanchuk, Bill 3062, which takes into account all rights, the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the administration of public and municipal property objects with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 31 March 2016. I very much ask the people's deputies, who are currently spending an hour of questions with the Prime Minister, to return to their jobs. Let's vote, and then you can talk again. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! Igor Lucenko, Borislav Bereza! I very much ask you, MPs, I very much ask the people's deputies to take their jobs. I'm begging you, my friends! This is an important and responsible decision. I very much ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. This is a decision that has been agreed upon at all stages, and we can only fail it because the MPs are not in their jobs. Friends, once again, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision, colleague. I'm asking you to come into the hall, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, I'm asking you to let me know. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm told there are several dozen deputies in the towers. Colleagues, heads of factions, as the deputies gather, I would like to point out to you that we have adopted in the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments made under the transcript at the plenary meeting on 21 April by the head of the committee on the activities of the judicial bodies and the decisions of the judges of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the legal policy and justice of Alexei Igor Sergiyyovich and taking into account the technical legal drafting of the laws: 2506a and 2507a. I'm just repeating this for the stenographer. And, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the heads of the factions. Can we get to the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me run a rating vote, because we have deputies after the Constitution who want to split up quickly, and that gives me a little heads-up and scares me. So, dear colleagues, I place a rating vote under the Ukrainian Act on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public and municipal property with proposals from the President of Ukraine. And I ask you to take part in the vote. 3062, rating vote. Please take part in the vote. [[13:41:26]] For 267 Colleagues, I underestimated our potential. I guess I've already lost my eye. Colleagues prepared for the vote. I am voting on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the administration of public and municipal property objects, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (No. 3062) and I am proposing to the Committee that it accept the proposal in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:42:21]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we discussed Bill 4623 in the morning, it was fully supported in the hall, but some deputies said there were no plates. The tablets were brought and distributed to each national MP. They've done everything they can under the Rules. And that's why I'm voting on draft Law 4623. It's a second reading. So I put to the vote 4623 in the second reading and in general. Please vote, this is the support of our colleagues in occupied areas. Please vote. 4623, in general, in the second reading and in general. [[13:43:27]] For 256 Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors. Congratulations to our colleagues on this decision. The next question in the agenda is chapter "First Reading." And the first question in this chapter is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Television and Radio Broadcasting. And I'm asking the authors to look at it for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Short-term procedure. [[13:44:15]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, today the Ukrainian Parliament has probably taken an important step towards judicial reform, but this is a decision and these bills that we are about to consider here, I think we can think of as historical. Throughout history, Ukrainian language has been destroyed. This was done by the kings, continued to do so by the Soviet regime, and at times they continue to do so today because of the power in Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting in the Russian language. It's an imposition, it's an export of Russian culture that's happening. What is proposed by Bill 3822. It's very simple. He proposes the introduction of 35 percent of the songs in Ukrainian Radiofire, basically every third Ukrainian song on Ukrainian Radio. This was long awaited by Ukrainian performers. This is what the Ukrainian authors expected. This is what composers, studios would expect, and that is what Ukraine would expect. For centuries, Ukrainian language has been eradicated. Today we can introduce such a quota. Quoting language is an entirely European tool that works in most countries of Europe. In fact, during the day of measurement, it has to take six hours, and this quota has to be maintained. Some would say that it is not enough to have a song in Ukrainian, that it is not as good as Russian - speaking songs. But we predicted a transition period. To this 35 percent we offer to go 3 years, starting immediately with 25 percent, the following year with 30 percent and 35 percent. We hope that over the last three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u184	Please give me 1 minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u185	We hope that in these three years we will see a real burst of Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian performers, and Ukrainian. I have the same report, Mr. Head, I have a report from the committee in this case for two minutes. I should say accordingly that the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy has considered this bill and decided to accept it as a basis, and so we have a registered alternative bill. Please identify yourself in the Hall and please support this bill and take a historic step for the Ukrainian language today. Because language is one of the basic foundations of statehood. If we want Ukraine to be truly independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u186	Please, 30 seconds to complete. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u187	I had two more minutes from the committee. If we want Ukraine to be really independent, we have to make sure today that this bill, so that we have the political will to do this, and believe me, the historic step that Ukrainians have been waiting for hundreds of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I now invite the authors of both groups of authors. First, I invite you to introduce Bill 3822 to Anna Gopko, then to Helena Kondratjuk. Anna Hopko, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u189	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. While we're sitting in the hall, there's Ukrainian musicians on the street who have quality music, and those who want this quality music to be on the airs of Ukrainian radio. Today we make a card called "When War, Song is a weapon. Don't give up!".. If you turn on any radio, you'll hear a Russian chance, you won't hear a Ukrainian song. And when we're a team of co-authors, also Mr. Medunica of the People's Front, we've registered this bill, and 14 days after it's been agreed upon on the committee, it turns out to be an alternative. I want to say that this bill that we're looking at, developed by the public, media experts, musicians, MPs, it sets just about 35 percent for the Ukrainian song on radio. Ukrainian songs at FM stations now take only 5 percent of the time. And that's a disgrace! And it's not because of the lack of music, it's because they can't get on the air. This is a conscious policy of leading media owners who kill air with Russian pops and muddy chanceon. These people have launched a campaign to discredit the bill, which introduces practices that work successfully in France, Poland, Germany, and Portugal. The lobbyists have expanded their fairies, and even today they are distributing the duplicates of this card. Musicians, including Jamal, who had been trying to get involved at first, spoke in support of this bill, not an alternative. I mean, when we were looking at decommunization, there were a lot of people in this room who were against Ukraine, because there are a lot of people who want a project called "Ukraine," where "Russian peace" and all the lobbyists who are now actually covering the pops that work for Putin, please let's support this, first and foremost, the bill that was drafted by the Victoria Sumar committee, because it's very important to us that the decommunization worked against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u190	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u191	I remember a year ago, everyone said that the decommunization wouldn't work, we renamed the streets instead of the KGB's street names James Mace, Eugene Sverstuck, those people who create a new, modern identity of the nation, the new nation, the political nation of Ukraine. Therefore, do not be misled by those who want to: (a) You won't hear the Ukrainian song, you won't be able to pass the law at all, or you won't be able to adopt an alternative that doesn't give you anything. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u192	To present Bill 3822-1, the Ukrainian National MP Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u193	Dear heads! Dear National Deputies! We ask you to support an alternative bill, which should be called a partnership, and this was confirmed by the vice-premier yesterday at the committee meeting, because we, the deputies from the factions of different factions: "The Fatherland", "The People's Front", "The Petra Poshenko Block", of the Radical Party, are proposing to establish a legislatively visible and ambitious goal of increasing to 35 percent the sound of Ukrainian music to the Ukrainian language of performers on the air of the largest radio stations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we propose to do much more and to make commitments not only for radio stations but also for music channels, not only to provide for 35 percent of the songs in Ukrainian, but also for at least 50 percent of the station’s live audio. We also offer to help all Ukrainian television channels increase their share of the Ukrainian language on the air, obliging them to produce at least 50 percent of the national product in Ukrainian. The bill 3822/1 proposed by you is coming out and taking into account the best international experience of countries that are famous for their attention to their native language and culture – Poland and France. We believe that it is necessary to stop discussing unique decisions for Ukraine and to put experiments on companies and listeners in Ukraine. In particular, I ask you to note that we are imposing substantial fines for non-execution of the Ukrainian language on the air, which is 5 percent of the licensed congregation. And we're clearly introducing the National Television and Radio Board as a control body, giving it proper authority so that we don't impose demands, and there's no one to control them, and there's no punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u194	How much do you need? Please, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u195	Similarly, the National Council will be empowered to determine the formative radio stations for which, just as in France and Poland, a slightly different requirement may be applied to the percentage of the quota. At the same time, I want everyone to realize in this room that the radio "Shanson" or "Russian Radio" is not a formative radio. And we insist on these and many other waves being at least 35 percent of the quota! And you don't have to politicize that question!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u196	Please, 30 seconds, 30 seconds. Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u197	Formational is the Continental Jazz Station, which used to be in Kiev, or the classical music wave, which I believe will someday appear in us, or the popular format in Europe, which is very popular but Latin American music. So we propose to join in a qualitative solution to the issue of Ukrainian music on the air of radio stations as well as on the music channels, on the air in general and on national production. And we also want everything mentioned above to have been implemented not in two years, as in the previous law, but in three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform you that under the right vested in me by the Rules, I continue to hold meetings for 15 minutes to 14. 15. And I'm asking my fellow national MPs not to disperse, an extremely important question. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please record. From the Fatherland faction. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u199	Please give the floor to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u200	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, Fatherland will vote to have more Ukrainian in all Ukrainian broadcasts. And we have to look at this problem in a complex way, it's not just about the songs of the Ukrainian language, it's about the content that the leading speakers speak, it's mostly about the Ukrainian language. This is about video clips that are broadcast on television, this is about Ukrainian television in general. So we have to solve these issues in a complex way and, of course, that Ukrainian air, Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting should be filled in in Ukrainian. But at the same time, I would like to urge us not to hang labels in this room and try to show that someone is standing up for victory, but someone is betraying. Because, in fact, I would like the Committee on Foreign Affairs to finally bring to Parliament the issue of the cessation of Ukraine's participation in SND organs. I want the Foreign Affairs Committee to raise the issue of ending diplomatic relations with Russia. I want to remind you how they tried to erase the issue of the Savechenko list at the Committee in foreign affairs, and they wanted to remove Putin as the first number. Don't hang a label. Do your job and responsibility where you are, for Russia cannot be a strategic partner. Not Russian language destroys Ukraine, but Russian aggression, so "no" is a strategic partnership with Russia, "no" is a diplomatic relationship. This is what needs to be considered in the Ukrainian Parliament today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u201	Ephraim's Irina Alexiyevna, of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u202	Ephraim, the People's Front. Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u203	Dear Mr. Head! Yesterday, the Committee on Culture of the Supreme Council unanimously urged you and the President of Ukraine to sign the law repealing the so-called law of Kolisnicka-Kivalova, a sad one, which actually ruled out Ukrainian language. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction urges you to support Law 3822, which Mrs. Hopko reported. Because after this law appeared, he intimidated the largest media owner in Ukraine, Mr. Kurchenk, who had thrown in this room a frenzy of money to tear down the vote for him. So I urge everyone to support Law 3822. Indeed, there are some positive points among Law 3822/1, and among its authors are people who are worthy of respect. But putting this law into the hall is an attempt to further ruse for the benefit of Kurchenka and other pro-Russian forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u204	Mamchure Yuri Valeriyovich, passes to Oksani Bilozer. It does, doesn't it? Please, Oksana Bilozer. Mamchur-Chubarov. Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! Setting quotas for both the national audiovisual product and the portion of songs in Ukrainian cannot be overlooked. If there wasn't some tension right now, I would suggest that we accept it now, that we approve in the first reading, and then, two weeks later, in the second. But I understand that there will be a lot of different games around here. I now support this bill, we approve of it 3822. But we never offered or promoted Russian songs about the specificity of Crimson Radio Stations. We didn't have enough for our own. For our own, our own, and here we had some problems under those laws. I think we're going to make some changes in the fall for Crimson Radios, and it's going to be okay. And today I support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u206	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u207	It's a fish word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u208	Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you because, you know, we're really expensive not because we're worth more than the common people, but because we treat the common people very dearly. This law should have been passed 25 years ago, my friends, 25 years ago! To be honest, I'm willing to vote for both laws, no matter what. I really hope that even if one of us passes through and finally on the air of our stations, our music will appear, not the music and the words of the aggressor company, this gang, this time. The second, and it's also very important, right now, because of all the disputes between the laws, this room might end up in a situation of Titanic when it splits up in half, so you can't vote for both the first and the second. That's what I'm offering you. Because if it doesn't go first, you have to vote and today you have to vote, if it isn't, minus one. Why? There's one very important amendment in the minus the second law, there's television. You can't look at this Russian product, these, I'm sorry, Ukrainianophobics who sing Russian. Please, we will uphold these laws! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u209	Thank you. From Self-Help, please, Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues! Self-help will support and support Bill 3822 as a whole. We consider this bill to be balanced, one that meets the demands and needs of not only the Ukrainian people, but also the Ukrainian State. What is important and what is the difference between one bill and another. Bill 3822 offers us an evenly balanced number of Ukrainian music products over the age. Instead, the alternative bill once again shifts the Ukrainian-language product into marginalities in non-prime times. Amendments relating to the country’s 50 - by 50 languages are required to be submitted to Bill 3822 after it has been adopted by a new law without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I will turn to those many who wish to speak. We're going to be out for five or seven minutes, and we're not going to pass any laws, society. He just won't be in the MPs' room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues! Can I have your attention? Can I have your attention or not? Can I have your attention in the hall? We've got about seven hands up right now. We've already spoken to everyone who was supposed to be acting in factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're just about to collapse the bill, there'll be no deputies in the hall. Colleagues, I now give my word, I now give the floor to Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko. Then the co-author Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! A year ago, there was a first government meeting on radiowaves. During this time, there was much controversy and discussion. There are no objections to the introduction of Ukrainian quotas in the public, among the people, among the public. We just have to make that choice. The Victoria Sümar Professional Committee unanimously decided a week ago to support the first reading of Law 3822. At the same time, an alternative 3822-1 was suddenly introduced, and all of this now led to this dispute in the hall. These bills are similar, but they are different. I'm underlining they're different. And Bill 3822 is better for the radicals and for the radio. First of all, he doesn't provide any exceptions to any formats. And I want to tell you that this bill itself, this whole idea doesn't apply to music stations, it only applies to stations that broadcast songs. Jazz and other instruments are not subject to our consideration at all. Bill 3822 provides the same 35 percent for all stations. That's the first one. Secondly, it foresees avoiding the inclusion of Ukrainian-speaking songs in time, which is a key issue. You know there are Ukrainian songs now, but yeah, mostly at night. Third time. It is simple, understandable and possible for the implementation and control of the Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation. That's why I'm offering to support him. And I want to say it in closing. Dear friends, it's not a language issue we're considering right now. Not even musical. This is a humanitarian issue, which means Ukraine's national security. We're going to support 3822. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, very intense emotions! 30 seconds, please. Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u214	Respectable Society! Dear National Deputies! I'm one of you who's been working in culture and art for 40 years. For me, this year is a Jubilee. And for 40 years, I sang an exclusively Ukrainian song. And she started with Iwasuk and Igor Bilozer, who were killed cynically just because they were holding the flag of Ukrainian national culture. We have two choices today. One bill, 3822, is one that has worked for six months by all artists, Ukrainian organizations who today are calling on us with the hope that we will hear them and ensure, through our representation, that we adopt the rules of the law that are needed today, not just by the media, but by the Ukrainian space of life. Glory to Ukraine! 3822.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u215	Heroic glory! I give the floor to the co-author, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Irina Heratschenko and to the vote. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and ask the deputies to come to the hall. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, do you know why this extremely important vote is now taking place so emotionally? Because I want to encourage the authors who speak from the rostrum not to hang labels on people. There are no people in this room who have proved by their actions those who work here for another state. And what's very important is that it's the right of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the National Deputies to submit an alternative bill, it's our right, more than that, to submit it in co-authorship with professional people working in this field and performers and industry representatives, because the industry is working for Ukraine today, and we have to respect it. And most importantly, for us co-authors of the alternative bill, it was important that it conformed to European law. We based our proposals on alternative fully legislated bills from Poland and France. And what's very important is that Poland and France give exactly that fraction to the national manufacturer, at least 35 percent. Our legislation will meet European standards. Let's vote 3822-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I ask you to lower your emotions and ask the deputies to come to the hall and listen for a moment to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind those deputies who are here for the first time that the laws on language here in this room have always aroused a special emotion. And at some point here in this room, I've demonstrated, like so many other deputies, that I'm able to defend the interests of the Ukrainian language. Because the issue of Ukrainian is a matter of national security. I want to tell you, Bill 3822. Guys, can you listen to me or not? The 3822 bill has a long history. I mean, he's had a discussion with the best experts in Ukraine. The appeal to support the introduction of quotas was signed by 260 Ukrainian artists. 3822. We had a concert here at the Supreme Council, today we have artists and musicians on the rostrum waiting for us, from the Ukrainian Parliament, a responsible decision, a decision on the issue of national security. The scientific and expert board has reached a positive conclusion on Bill 3822. And I want to tell you, to those who say that it's not in line with European practice, that quotas for native language music exist in European countries. For example, France: 35 per cent of the quota for Ukrainian music, Poland 33, Germany 25, Portugal 25-60. So our responsibility is to protect the information space. I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote. And I will be the first to put to the vote Bill 3822, which today the public is supporting in this room, in our rostrum. Colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. The question of great importance, I ask you all to be considerate and responsible. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (3822). Dear colleagues, please vote. Please support Ukrainian song and Ukrainian music. Vote. [[14:11:52]] For-191 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to the regulations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! I have to put in the next alternative bill for consideration. I spoke to Victoria Sumar, head of the committee, and she promised to introduce all the key positions of 3822 into the alternative bill. I ask 1 minute of Victoria Sumar and we go to the vote. One minute, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, to my deep conviction, I'm very afraid that now we're going to lose both of these bills and we're going to spit on the Ukrainian language and this historic chance. Because we don't care about autumn, we're going to have a passion for the election here in the fall. Today we have a chance to do this. The second bill was considered by the committee and suggested that it be approved on the basis of paragraphs 4 and 7. I'm sounding it for the transcript, that's the committee's decision. From there, format radio stations are taken and a double quota is collected for young performers. For the second reading, we will make all the standards that the public today requires. I am sure of that with your support. Don't lose your historic chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, pay attention! Let's move on to making a decision. We just heard the head of the committee. In the committee's editorial, once again, that's just the basis. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (for part of the songs in the national language in the radio and radio programmes) (3822-1) to the committee and with the amendments that Victoria Sumar made to the transcript from this rostrum. 3822-1 is based. Vote please, colleagues. We vote that we don't lose the bill. [[14:14:02]] For 221 I'll be back, guys. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll be back. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. I ask the deputies to return to the hall. We can get votes now. Please, Krivenko, one minute and Berezuk, one minute. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Krivenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, the People's Movement will definitely support 3822P. We're hearing from the committee today, we're hearing that two questions have been taken off by radio stations. For us, the ultimate question is not to break it down. From 6 years to 22 years. To return that 35 percent of the Ukrainian song, Ukrainian song, will be spoken every 6 hours. If we make this decision by voting, we can vote in favour of this law so that we do not lose the impeccable bill. 22-1 is good stuff, there's a question on TV, on music channels. But 3822P is a consensus document that has been worked on for a long time. I want to remind you that until she reached out to the public. Yeah. That is to say that quotas should be calculated separately for each time period: from 6 to 12; from 12 to 18; from 18 to 24 hours. Thank you, Mr. Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u221	Oleg Beresuk, one minute. Oleg Beresuk, one minute. Is there a need, Oleg Barresuk? One minute, and let's move on to making decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u222	An extremely important decision. Our proposal is, we send these two bills for re-reading. It's gonna be fair, fair and normal, you can't take it any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, we will now vote. I'm asking for your attention! Some of the deputies came up to Dmitri Jaroz, said he voted in favour, and the card just didn't work. Colleagues, we have to treat each other with respect, we can go back now. And I, my esteemed colleagues, Syumar said a position, and I put to the vote only in the committee's editorial form to take into account all the amendments that 3822 to the second reading. So I'm going to suggest we go back to 3822-1. I'm asking you to support this proposal, go back to consideration 3822-1. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[14:17:03]] For the 220. Then, according to the Rules, I make the following suggestion: to return to the committee for a second reading. Do you copy, colleagues? Both on the committee for re-reading. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm asking you to return to the committee. Dear colleagues, we had a brief meeting. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, one minute, will offer us a choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, we can, of course, send anything anywhere, but then there will never be a solution -- that's what this is about. Here Ribczynski spoke and said that 25 years ago he had to be approved. Yes, for 25 years, Parliament could not accept this, and now we lack a few votes before a decision that introduces Ukrainian-language radio quotas. So I think that the proposal that Victoria Sumar just made from the rostrum, plus what Mikola Knieżicki proposed, is now needed for it to be voted in the first reading. And then, by the reduced procedure of the week in the second reading, we will also approve in general, for otherwise there will never be this law. We need to be conscious.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m0.u225	Colleagues, we've heard the opinion of the vice-premier. Colleagues, can we go back? Self-help? No, it's not. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I once again propose to return to the consideration of Bill 3822-1. And I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support us not to lose the bill, and to support the proposal of Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko to return to debate 3822-1. Vote! Don't shout, just vote! [[14:19:35]] For 228 Colleagues, 228 for. Now, I'm going to ask for your attention, and I'm going to ask everyone to take their seats right now, and take their emotions off, society. And then we're, you know, with the "slip the baby with the water" emotions. We're taking the basis, I want to emphasize, on a base, colleagues. I'm asking you to hear me on the ground. And I'm asking my colleagues to support this proposal. I'm voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, which. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I talk to you? Thank you. For a vote in a committee that was put to the vote by Sumar for the transcript, based on 3822-1, on a basis. Please vote on the basis of 3822-1. 3822-1 based. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[14:20:54]] For 219 I'm going to make one last suggestion: to return to the committee for a re-reading of both bills. Please unite, return to the first reading of both bills: 3822 and 3822-1. I ask you to support this proposal, return to the committee for a second first reading. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:21:29]] For 245 Decision taken. I want a committee of fruitful work, and I want members to remember that the issue of national importance should unite us rather than separate us. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 4:00.
