ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues, can we get everybody in the area now? Please, whoever's not here yet, come on in, get ready to register, we're about to run the registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[10:05:59]] 364 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues. Is there already? Dear colleagues, today Ukraine celebrates the Day of Engineering and the Day of Missiles and Artillery of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Hundreds of burnt tanks and thousands of lives saved are all the work of our heroic artillery. Anyone who has passed the ATO, who has been on the front, knows that artillery throughout our war against the invader has been one of the most combative, one of the most professional and qualified units. Let us all collectively desire the strength and strength of our boys in the struggle for Ukrainian statehood, their energy, and their health. Here on the balcony are the fighters, the artillery that passed the ATO, and let's welcome them to the hall. Let every shot you shoot reach its goal, and let the Ukrainian heroes return home alive and unharmed. We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine! Welcome. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I would like to explain immediately the logic of our day, which was agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. So the first block we have is the issue of deregulation and business climate development. There are five questions. Colleagues, then there'll be a proposal-asking that we have two questions, a few questions about the HKG that we've been left with since Tuesday, we can look into. In addition, we are being suppressed, and there will be an offer to consider the matter of the Supreme Council of Justice. And after lunch, it's going to be the Committee on Legality and Law Enforcement. There's a logical agenda. I see a raised hand on the committee's head, the committee's head will ask 4941 to put it closer. I'll put it to the vote, sir, and I think the hall will support it. Two questions about the HKG that's been left over since Tuesday, and we're going to try to look into it today. But I have one request for the entire hall. The agenda is non-conflict, is working and progressive. It's important that we only work intensively, then we can also look at two of our blocks, and what we've got left over from Tuesday, and we'll also be able to look at the issue of the High Council of Justice, which we also have on the agenda. To that end, only the intensive work of Parliament and the effective work of Parliament are important. And now we're starting with the first law, and I'm going to ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. The author will back me up. Alona, for short, supports. And I will be asked to support this proposal. So the first question of order is deregulation and business climate development. This question, which has been dealt with several times, has long been sought for understanding and has finally been found, is a draft of the Mediation Act (3665) and (3665-1). And I'll have a request to the hall to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please take your seats and vote. I am voting on the proposal for a review of the Mediation Act (3665) under a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[10:10:30.]] For-119 My colleagues, would you support the abbreviated? You'll hold it, yes. I'll put it again, colleagues. Colleagues, do you support the abbreviated? Once again, we're not going to fail anything, we're going to go through it well and well, I'm sure. There is a common understanding of the hall. We just need deputies to take up jobs. That's one secret to our work. My colleagues, I'm going to put the motion on the vote again, a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to take the job and vote. Guys, can I put it in? Please make a suggestion from the committee, by the author: Section 3665. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[10:11:54]] For-137 I'll put it again, colleagues. You know, the trouble is, there's a lot of people in the hall, not all of them in the workplace. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, we need to maintain a reduced procedure, colleagues, in order to get through the daytime routine. I'm talking to my colleagues. Then we don't make it, then we hurry to the end of the session. We need to be responsible. Fellows, if you'll support me, I'll set it up again. I'm voting once again on the proposal to review the draft Mediation Act 3665 and 3665-1, consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support. Can we vote? Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:13:29]] For 134 Colleagues, there's a requirement for completeness, right? Are we going full? We're going after the whole thing, colleagues. Colleagues, if there is. There's going to be a discussion, there's going to be an opportunity to speak. Please, Mr. Ruslan. But we've already decided. Is it too long? Too long. Well, we put it on, long, long. Do you have another offer? Give the Prince one minute from the committee. If there is a requirement of the hall in full, we consider in full, no questions asked. Please, Mr. Knazevitch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u2	Mr. Head, we don't deny that it's complete, but I suggest we shorten it as follows. Since there are two alternative bills, it is possible to speak immediately to two reporters. We are ready to make one statement on two bills from the committee, and we will continue to discuss two bills at once. This will double the amount of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u3	Thank you. But I have a general question, Mr. Ruslan, to you and to everyone. There are a number of important issues that have been asked and insisted on by the deputies: both the questions of the LHK, the law enforcement, and the Justice Council. And I know what's going to happen in an hour: in an hour and a half, we're not going to make it through, and then there's going to be a question of why. And that's because there's just not enough levels of discipline in the room. Colleagues, come on, I'm backing up the committee head, I'll put it back up again. If there are no votes now, let's move on to the full procedure, colleagues. So I'm going to do it again. Please take up your jobs. If there are no votes, let's move on to the full procedure. And all the authors who have the following bills, please remember this moment when they don't get to them, so I don't have any questions or warnings. So once again, I'm going to put the question to the vote: consideration of the shortened procedure for the draft Mediation Act, 3665 and 3665-1. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support me. [[10:16:04]] For-141 Let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Alona Ivanovna. Please, Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u4	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good morning, colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I thank you so much for really putting this bill into the agenda for the first time, not the second time, not even the third time. And actually, let's start with what mediation is. Colleagues, mediation is an alternative to dispute resolution. Along with arbitration, alongside negotiations, with other alternative means of dispute resolution. That's when. It's actually structured negotiations, when the two sides are trying to choose the expert, the mediator, on their own, and continue to use it to resolve their conflict. We all know that in Ukraine there is now an extremely acute issue of judicial reform, that trust in courts is almost zero, that courts are extremely busy with cases, and one case can be dealt with more than a year, more than six years, and more, and more. The very alternative means of dispute resolution, such as mediation, help and dissipate a little bit of the courts, and save the costs of both the State budget and the maintenance of the courts, and the costs of taxpayers, and people who need to resolve their disputes, and they can now only go to court and not know about alternative means of dispute resolution. And to help build confidence in the judicial system, because the institution's implementation is also part of judicial reform and Ukraine, and part of restoring confidence in other alternative means of dispute resolution. In fact, in European countries and countries such as the United States, Australia, Britain went even further. Not only is this institution of mediation or alternative dispute resolution extremely popular, they have even made the mediation mandatory for several categories of cases. For example, when it comes to caring for a child. First, in England and elsewhere, they have to go to the mediator, and if the mediator can't settle the dispute, because often it's just the differences and the images of both sides, then they're going to court. We haven't gone that far, but we're trying to actually regulate now what "mediation" is, what are the requirements for mediators, who are these people "mediators" who have to have education, what they need to know, what responsibility they have for their work in fact. What is the register of mediators who keep this register? At the legislative level in Ukraine, this issue has never been settled, and now, if we regulate it at the legislative level, it will be the beginning of a serious institution. Secondly, it will be a very good sign for both investors and our Western partners, and so on for those investors who absolutely do not trust the Ukrainian judicial system, and we understand why, unfortunately, and who will be able to use this kind of dispute when all the requirements, all the rights, all the duties and all the procedures are clearly regulated. Colleagues that we've prescribed for mediators. We've prescribed a requirement for age, for education, for the number of hours of vocational training that people have to go through before they're actually recognized as mediators. We did not prescribe compulsory legal education, but we did prescribe other important requirements. What's important here, too, is that we said that a mediator can't be an active judge, there can't be a government official who's been released from public service for corruption or for some corruption, and that's very important because we need to restore trust in an institution like mediation and the mediators themselves. That's why we've prescribed some very strict requirements that we don't even have in Europe. I also know that in one of the factions, in the Self-Help faction, there's a warning about the use of mediation on the amount of damage in criminal matters. I think it's a warning we can take off absolutely easily, I know about it, I talked about it, thank you for saying such things, I think we'll take it off during the second reading and I think that during the second reading and to it we can make a large round table with the help of a profile committee and really listen to all the warnings just to run this basic institute and finally legally try to regulate it. I will also add, colleagues, that the introduction of mediation in Ukraine is included in the implementation plan and best practices of quality and effective regulation by the World Bank Group. What does that mean? This means that it's not just going to be a signal to investors, but that the legislative settlement of this institution will actually allow us to get one ball in the Doing Business rating, we know how important this is now, including for our European integration and the rise in the level and image of Ukraine in the eyes of our European partners. And if we already had a negotiated mediation today, we'd go up, think about it, 50 points, that's almost more than what we went up for a year, 50 points, that would be an incredible achievement, and Ukraine would go around the 50 countries that are now in front of it. Moreover, colleagues, this is extremely important for Ukraine itself, for the citizens of Ukraine themselves, who will be able not only to address the court, but to be able to address the mediator with requirements for the mediator, already having a register of mediators, already having the responsibility of mediators and having a legislative solution to the matter. In addition, the bill is supported by a legal committee of profile, for which I am extremely grateful to the committee of profile. The committee held a round table and not one discussion of this institution of mediation. The bill is supported by our European partners, the bill is supported and worked, as you can see, by the National Association of Mediators of Ukraine, as well as by other mediators who joined our discussions, and I am sure they will join in the future. The bill is supported even by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, for which I am also grateful to the Ministry, and by the Ministry of Economic Development, which is also extremely concerned about the creation of this institution. I'd like my colleagues to support this bill. Any warnings that may or may not arise, we'll take them off during the second reading. Now let's give a signal to both Ukrainian citizens and investors and our Western partners, and to ourselves that we are able to settle such things, that we are able to be more innovative in something even than other countries in the world. And that we are able to really start court reform and increase confidence in the alternative means of resolving the disputes that mediation is exactly. I ask your support, colleagues, and I am ready to answer any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u5	Thank you very much. I invite you to your report. Question, three minutes is question, okay. Alona, it's only a matter of three minutes. This is a complete procedure. Please ask the reporter for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u6	Please, National Deputy Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u7	Dear reporter, literally less than a year ago this room adopted changes to the Constitution on judicial reform. These changes were very commendable and told us that they solved all the problems. Now we have the most just courts in the world, they decide everything, and nothing needs to be complemented. How does this law harmonize with judicial reform? Is the mediation mentioned in the Constitution of Ukraine part of the preconceived consideration of disputes? And will the Mediation Act help improve judicial reform, or can it make it worse, take a step back from this progressive reform, for which the Radical Party faction, I recall, did not vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u8	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Colleagues, we all know that judicial reform is not a quick trial. We all understand that the judicial reform was only launched in the first step, but we'll actually see concrete results if we see it not sooner than a year later. Meditation is not a practical means of settling disputes, but rather a judicial means of settling disputes. That is, mediation can help dispel courts when people will not need to go to court at all. We know that the level of trust in the court, well, it's probably just below the plentuse in Ukraine. So people need to give this signal that they can use both arbitration and negotiation. But the mediation will be legally settled with you in law, and they will be able not to go to court at all if they are provided with this voluntary means of settling disputes. In doing so, we will unload the judicial branch of power. But of course, without judicial reform, you know, no mediation, no arbitration, no innovative negotiating technology that works very well in the world, they won't help us make a full court reform. So, of course, judicial reform is what's going on, but at the same time, we have to use the means to resolve disputes that allow the state budget to be saved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u11	I have a request to our distinguished reporter. As we are now listening to a bill that refers to a completely new institution for our society, and many people don't even think that these are institutions that are specific to it. I ask you very much for the people who are listening now, for this we have actually insisted on a full discussion, and in principle for the national MPs, who may not know the details in detail, please explain how the decisions that will be made in the mediation process will affect how they will actually enter into life, by what, and how this will be the case if there is a court case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u13	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, colleagues, meditation is such a beautiful English word in fact. It's not meditation, it's not anything else, it's an alternative dispute resolution. For example, if people have an issue about custody of a child during divorce, let us take this example. They may choose from the register of mediators a particular person whom they both trust, with a high reputation, for example, with legal education, a person who has spent a certain number of hours in the process of negotiating, the process of conflict resolution and everything else, to address this person and by means of negotiations, by including their demands to make a so-called agreement and resolve their dispute. They continue to accept this covenant voluntarily and it is a solution to the dispute to keep it. Of course, if after many hours of mediation, the parties failed to reach that agreement and the mediator did not help them to agree, they may continue to appeal to the court. But at least according to European statistics, international statistics show that many disputes after mediation do not reach the courts, and they no longer need them. Because the parties have spoken, the parties have found what pleases them both.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u14	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u15	The parties in the negotiation process have lifted the emotional tension, which will then cost them a lot of money and a lot of meetings, and they've actually eliminated this dispute and they agree to do what they've determined for themselves. And this case may never come to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u16	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next stage. And I invite you to speak to the co-rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. I'm sorry, we have an alternative bill, and I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u17	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by an alternative draft of Law 3665-1 on mediation. Meditation is an effective mechanism for a successful, quick and economic solution to disputes in an out - of - court manner. The bill sets out the principles and order of the mediation, the status of the mediator, the rights and responsibilities of the parties to the mediation. Mediation has been successful in many nations of the world. The acts of the Council of Europe and the European Union recommend its implementation. The approval of this law will raise Ukraine in a business rating made up of a group of World Banks each year. The adoption of this draft law will allow our citizens to save money often and to dismantle the judicial system. This bill is actually more than five years old. It is designed by a group of experts, and it is made in three convocations. All the decisions made were taken into account. And now it's a document of high legal quality. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u18	Thank you. And I invite you to the report. I'm sorry, the reporter is the national deputy of Kiwalov. I'm sorry, National Deputy Kiwalov, please come back to your question. Please sign up for questions. Please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u19	Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u20	Dove? Please pass the word to the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u21	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, you just presented us with an alternative mediation bill. Considering that, after all, this is really a new institution for the Ukrainian settlement of the dispute, for the dispute settlement system, it's interesting to hear what is the essence of your alternative to that bill that Alona Shkrum presented to you, which was made by experts and European experts. So please tell us and the community, what is the alternative to your bill before the main one reported by Alona Skrum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, in fact, this bill has been put into this room more than five times. And groups were established, and experts were established to address this issue, to draft a law on mediation. We've seen both, and that law is good, but I think that the law that is alternative is more sophisticated. For example, what difference does it make, what is the main difference between our bill, which is presented at your hearing? The first, clearer procedures for the application of mediation in procedural codes have been laid down. Let's say no, the law is largely unwritten and there is no change in the code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Executive Production and many others. Because without this rule, which is presented in our bill, it is impossible to apply it. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u24	I hope that when the law is passed on first reading or both, we will finish it. And there is absolutely no ambition here for my bill to be passed. I would like to recommend to all the deputies that there should be a Mediation Institute in our country as a whole, and we will finalize it on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u26	Thank you very much. I have a question, in principle, that matched the previous one, but I'll try to detail it. Your bill gives special attention to a separate article on the specificities of individual family disputes that are criminal in the mediation process, but these articles are of a sufficiently general nature. I would still like to know your opinion of how you see, you're writing a more detailed mediation in the criminal process, how you see in real life the mediation, for example between the suspect, the accused and the victim, how it's going to happen, how it's going to affect the mystery of the investigation, and how do you see this process parallel to the investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. But once again, I would like to emphasize that all issues, including changes in existing legislation, must be addressed in order for the institution of mediation in our country to come to fruition. In criminal proceedings, if we amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, this rule is clearly stated and is in an alternative law. Moreover, I would like to pay particular attention to the final stages of the proceedings. This is a change to the Act on Executive Production of Ukraine. There is an opportunity for mediation at the execution stage of the basic bill to consider and make a decision. And I think that if we go that way in detail, I emphasize in detail, we will consider in detail the issue of execution related to the Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Ten seconds to complete, please. Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice of the National MP Ruslan Knazević to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm going to let myself think a little bit about the history of this issue in general, let's say, in the Ukrainian reality, and say that the first question about the purpose of the institution of mediation came up in the Ukrainian Parliament, as we have now raised the materials, even in the Supreme Council of the Second Call. This happened after the Council of Europe first adopted, for the first time on January 21, 1998, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted recommendations on mediation in family disputes. And you know that Ukraine, by joining the Council of Europe in 1995, has undertaken to implement, including such legislation in national legislation. Then there was this right-wing committee headed by Mr. Stretovich, further in his next call, Mr. Zadrodzny. But, for a long time, from that point on, imagine, for 20 years now, we haven't been as close as we are now, before we finally put in place this very important institute in Ukraine, which has proved to be as effective in all the countries that join the Council of Europe in all these years. I have to tell you that we are very happy now that this call, despite the fact that the bills have been registered, and here, to the honour of the authors, we should say, back in the last year, at the end of December 2015, and we are extremely grateful to them, the committee has considered them and made a decision in the spring: to recommend them to Parliament without delay. But perhaps some objective realities did not allow us to take a quick look at the matter, first, in fact, then, remember, we asked the authors, even from their initiative, to postpone the consideration of the matter, since there was a danger that the lack of votes in the room would make it impossible for the institution to be established. And I very much hope that today, almost on the anniversary of these drafts to Parliament, we will be able to at least make a decision to start a fundamental work of a copy, a committee-level expert in the second reading of this very important bill. I have to thank both authors because, in fact, these bills are very similar and the committee has repeatedly noted their similarity, and I would say that they complement each other. So it wasn't that hard for us, let's say, to look at them as a basis to recommend rejection with further possibilities of amending the second reading, because it's not fundamentally important. As a result of a series of professional discussions on the committee site, both round tables and committee hearings, a working group was set up. And I thank the authors who have actively participated in all of these efforts. The working group also invited prominent professionals in the field of law, science, and practice. We agreed, and this is a joint decision by the law-makers of the two bills. Because the first bill is a whole bunch of authors, Alona Skrum just represents them, there, out of respect for her. On the other hand, another author of the law. And they agreed that we are taking, we will recommend, on behalf of the committee, that we take the first bill as a basis and recommend that Parliament accept it in the first reading, provided that, once adopted in the first reading, we will definitely hold a second round of serious, professional discussions with the involvement of all interested national law-makers who will consider it appropriate to make their amendments to the second reading. And we will certainly propose to the author of the second bill as amendments to make appropriate proposals for second reading, especially in the implementation of this law on other legal acts and codes. I don't think the authors of the first bill should object to such a procedure. I hope the author of the second bill will support that idea. This enabled us, at the level of the committee, to unanimously decide on Parliament's recommendation to adopt the draft bill as a basis and to continue to take responsibility for second reading accordingly to remove all of those, let's say, disagreements and problematic things that might arise in order to propose, in fact, to me, an extremely promising and effective institution of mediation in Ukraine. I wouldn't be talking right now about what we're dealing with with because we have mistrust in the judiciary, and we're running this institution. No, I think these are parallel processes. We must renew this trust, including the changes to the Constitution that have been discussed today. Of course, if we move on to a three - line judicial system, access to justice will be more complicated, including, and this needs to be taken into account. And this institution is going to unload not only in terms of trust, but also in terms of a purely technological approach to the loading of the courts by their actions, which, to my mind, are to a large extent unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u30	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u31	can really be used effectively at the level of a non-conviction solution. So I would like to support the idea proposed by the committee that this bill, which is the main author of Alona Skrum and other people's deputies, should vote in the first reading and ask the author of another bill, all those rational proposals that it makes in the form of amendments to the second reading, should be submitted to the committee in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. And please sign up for questions. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People’s Deputy, Andrija Pomazanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u33	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask more questions in principle to the authors of this bill, these two bills, but I think that Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevich, as an experienced professional on this issue, will be able to answer these questions no less qualifiedly. I'm worried. As with me and the whole society, I am convinced that they are following the development of this bill in the way it is. Today, we have heard from the rostrum that there are requirements for both the mediator and the organizations that will prepare these mediators. But we are. I don't understand how a person who's 25 years old can only have a higher or vocational or technical education and only go through, roughly speaking, two weeks of learning in which organization and how they're going to be trained by these organizations is learning how this person can conduct mediation. Moreover, the law clearly provides for this bill, which unfortunately prohibits legal counseling. So how can this person solve the dispute?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u35	Andrey Vitaliyovich, let me answer that question next. The point is that the authors applied the practice that exists according to the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Indeed, such approaches in many countries are, and I have to tell you, paradoxically, they work well enough in practice. Will such a practice be acceptable and effective for Ukraine? It's a matter of discussion. In the second reading, I think you're as completely professional and, to me, a fairly effective committee member to join in, I hope, for a second reading discussion so that we can make the optimal decision. We, on the one hand, have to take into account the recommendations that are in Europe, on the other hand, really take Ukrainian practice and reality into account in order not to become a proponent for the introduction of such an institution. I agree with you here. We need to talk about these things. Moreover, I know that the authors do not object to such a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u36	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u38	Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u39	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Ruslan, it's the right thing to do. We need to bring in the media. We understand that this is a real reform, we need to do it, our courts are loaded, we need to unload them, we need to do it all, it's the right thing to do. The only thing is, there are a few such comments, I think that we're going to have to work on the second reading, but I would still like to hear your opinion on this. Is it appropriate to apply the judicial mediation in disputes involving the State, the territorial community or their bodies, state and municipal enterprises, as well as minors, persons with limited efficiency? Maybe more clearly these questions need to be prescribed in the law to, well, it's the right thing to do, but not to turn a little bit into abuse. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Such an institution operates in European countries and works effectively. Whether Ukraine will be adapted and properly implemented is already a question of practice and we will see how it will work in life. The other thing is that, friends, the institution of mediation, it's not a duty, it's a right, it's the right of the parties concerned to the possibility, let's say, of applying such an institution, no one is going to impose an obligation on anyone on the part of the institution. In that case, if the two parties do not have the goodwill to apply such an institution, no one will be obliged to do so, then there will be a judicial hearing determined by the Constitution and the relevant legislation, and otherwise they will be able to resolve the conflict in a judicial way. This is a way of being an alternative to non-judicial, taking into account this series of circumstances, including the judicial congregations, and so on, a series of things that, for example, make it difficult to access justice. But again, it is a right, not a duty. Let's see how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u42	Thank you for your answers, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. And we're moving on to the discussion. Please record the factions for discussion. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. Please, National Deputy Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u43	Good afternoon, reverend, I'd like to address you. Since 2014, Ukraine has been taking steps to decentralize power, a modern form of democracy in the world. The institution of mediation in Ukraine is one of the measures taken to decentralize public authorities, which gives citizens a real opportunity to choose other non-judicial means to resolve their disputes. If we are going to solve the problems of Ukrainian citizens, I hope that you will continue to hear me and work for the Ukrainians. In view of the fact that almost all disputes in Ukraine are being dealt with by the courts themselves, and because of the high level of recourse to the courts, our legal system does not offer its citizens effective nonjudicial means of settling disputes. Compared with judicial or arbitral trials involving a judge or an arbitral judge, mediation has significant advantages. That is, the minimum of formal factors and the influence of the State, the achievement by the parties alone of a mutually acceptable decision, the volunteerism and impartiality of the procedure, the high probability of voluntary compliance by the parties to the agreements. Because if people see that they can find an understanding quickly, they're going to meet each other, and in the courts we see it now, it doesn't happen. Third, maintaining a partnership between the parties. The application of the mediation procedure creates a real possibility of freeing judges from the burden of handling cases of minor gravity. And the courts are now, as you can see, dirty in small matters. Saving time and resources, and a major improvement in the effectiveness of the justice system as a whole. Meditation is one of the most popular forms of conflict resolution in the developed world. Mediation has been greatly developed in the European Union, Australia, and the United States. The adoption of the Law on Mediation will also help us to prevent corruption. In the general Mediation Act, anti-corruption matters are important because it will give society a legally regulated procedure for alternative dispute resolution, which will be contrary to the Ukrainian courts. You see, now that no one trusts the Ukrainian courts, it is mediation that can become an alternative branch that will essentially unload the Ukrainian courts, which will certainly improve the quality of court proceedings. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee supported the bill as one that met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. In addition, the project does not provide any basis for a possible delay in the mediation process by the unconscionable parties, since, unlike the arbitral or judicial proceedings, any party can at any time stop the mediation process. I'll be grateful if he supports this bill and makes life easier for the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u44	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u45	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Well, actually, I probably have to say a little bit about conflict of interest, because I'm a certified mediator, and we have another certified mediator in the faction. And a little bit in her legal life, she had the opportunity to put this action into practice. Unfortunately, there was no possibility of further impact on implementation because there was no law. Therefore, it is really important when family matters in particular involve the sharing of property or the custody of a child, the court is always traumatic. The court always imposes very negative consequences on both sides, both on the man and on the woman. And very often after divorce, people just come out as enemies. Meditation allows you to actually preserve relationships, preserve your family, and, above all, preserve your child and his mental health. The same is true of household affairs. Very often, business takes a long time, takes very much money, very much resources, influences the reputation of companies. Meditation allows negotiations to find a way to resolve these disputes quickly and very quickly, I would say cheaply. And the last moment. I want to try to answer the questions and warnings that stood in this room about who would be conducting the mediation and who would be watching the mediator, like they say, "And the judges who?, and what kind of fuses. Meditation is always safeguarded by the parties themselves and the principle of meditation that it is voluntary for both sides. As soon as the parties decide that they don't see the meaning or the mediation is ineffective, or the mediator is bad, any of these sides will stop this mediation. This is the primary safety net. So here, in fact, the mediator is just helping, he's actually leading two sides in their complex search for consensus. So I urge you to support the bill, which is proposed as the main one, and to allow this to be done in a fairly economic way, a quick way to be in our legal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u46	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexi Kirichenko, the Radical Party. Oh, Kuprienka, Lord, I have Kirichenko. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u47	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues, Oleg Láska's Radical Party has supported and supported and will support all legislative bills and initiatives aimed at getting Ukraine to Europe. In fact, it's a European norm, it's a necessary norm in our society. But if we vote or draft an idea bill, we have to look at the details that are hidden in this bill. The previous speaker said that she would give much to the Ukrainians. Yeah, I think about minus 10 billion. Why? The bill states in an explanatory note that it has no budgetary burden, which will not change the income or expenditure portion of the budget. I don't think so. Why? Because there will be a very powerful resource for businesses and businesses to pay money, reducing profits and not paying income taxes, for the media. We understand that any good and good thing in our society can be distorted and used, not for the benefit of the state, but for the purpose of tax evasion. All these warnings must be taken into account in this bill for the second reading. For example, I don't understand how a person with CTU education can mediate and resolve a dispute between transnational corporations. There must be adequate education and training to do so. Well, you can't give a ransom to non-professionals for professional things. And if in Europe, maybe there's a lot of doormen with higher education, that's a little bit different. There are, therefore, many questions that need to be worked out before the second reading. In this way, the bill, as it is now presented, is the right idea, it is true, the media needs to be implemented. But so that we don't bury the very good process and turn it into another tool to hide the tax on profit. And for my colleagues, I remind you. The budget next year provides about 30 billion income taxes in the income section. Meditation will be another tool to avoid paying income tax, to reduce income. Because media fees, as well as marketing services, like legal services, all go to the expense of an enterprise and reduce profits, and then profit taxes. So I urge all of the practitioners, the lawyers present in this room, to take a very important look at the draft of this bill for second reading in order to make it as impossible as possible to abuse this bill for tax evasion. Everybody knows the classics: Melanca's grandmother and the Frog how they used to swear. So we're going to have firms swear every day on every occasion and pay for it. And you don't need an offshore, you're going to have a single-tax physical person doing all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alexander Doubenkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u49	Hello, respectable colleagues! Indeed, the legislative initiative, which is being considered and submitted by both the Fatherland faction and the opposition bloc representatives, is certainly entitled to be highlighted and discussed in order to implement national legislation. But representatives of some factions, in support of this law, spoke of an unfair judicial system and spoke of a low level of confidence among judges. I would like to see colleagues in subsequent speeches refrain from such statements, which tend to heat up the electoral mood, but still discredit the judiciary by preaching the institution of mediation, I think is wrong. For some reason, however, colleagues were silent that access to the judiciary was, in fact, limited by them last year. All factions except the “Opposition Block” voted in favour of amending article 4 of the “Court of Justice” Act. What was the significance of these changes? These changes included the removal of the maximum judicial fee paid by the party initiating the proceedings, except for economic disputes. Just think, this is a self-help colleague talking about how long the business process is taking place. It may not only take time but also money. The maximum amount of legal fees in the business process is only 150 minimum wages, think of it as 2 per cent of the cost of the claim. Not every enterprise can afford to go to the Land Court. That is, appeals to the court can be afforded by economically viable entities. Indeed, paradoxically speaking, mediation is a necessary alternative to the other parties to resolve the dispute. Does this law permit disputes in other cases? In the family yes, in the criminal yes, in the business yes. Unfortunately, however, the Institute of Media, which is currently under consideration, does not cover administrative matters. There are many tax disputes that now instigate taxpayers in understatement of tax liabilities when they appeal against tax notices. Regrettably, these decisions are equal to those of property categories, and they have to pay one and a half per cent of the amount of the court fee without a maximum of time. That is, this law will not solve this issue. At the same time, the last coalition spoke and promised that they would institute tax mediation, as the pre-trial appeal institution, the administrative appeal of these tax notices, did not work. Of course, bills must be adopted, but there is no need to stop at what has been achieved, since we need to adopt the Tax Mediation Act in order to resolve relations and to warn a little about abuse by the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u50	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u51	Abuse by taxpayers, who deliberately impose a tax liability on taxpayers so that they are not able to apply to the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Leonid Hamtz, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u53	Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention. It's an extremely important bill that we're looking at right now. And, dear colleagues, I would like to start by saying that our committee, the Committee on Legal Policy, is a committee of profile that ranks 31 members of the committee, has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to vote on the basis of a bill on mediation. To be honest, I will point out that two of the 31 members of the committee have abstained. No one objected. Therefore, our committee, which is professional among the legal circles of experts in our Parliament, has recommended that this bill be adopted with absolute responsibility as a basis. Now I'm going to tell you what are the observations and who is against the adoption of this bill. So let's think about what we give people? We give people the opportunity to look to the person they consider to be an expert, a professional, in fact, at the dispute that arose between them, in order to explain to them what it really would be like for them to agree with him. This is happening completely voluntarily. Who is such a lawyer? A lawyer is a law specialist. And maybe people have a completely different question in financial law or in economics, and not every lawyer, for example, knows how the auction is different from the derivative and what is different from the futures, and people need to solve the issue rather than pay the lawyer. Of course, I have great respect for the legal profession, but it's often true that the lawyer's job is not the final decision in the case, but the longer the case goes, the more the lawyer earns. And that's why we're giving people the opportunity not to feed lawyers, but to agree between themselves and solve things, and to put a dot in it, because it's going to be a-- it's going to be a problem, any dispute that has arisen between individuals. And when it comes to the question that additional innovations occur in criminal conduct, that is not true. Because the bill makes it very clear that in criminal proceedings, mediation is only possible for material harm and only the court’s decision and the conclusion of a peace agreement that is still in place today. Just today, the parties do not have the opportunity to involve the mediator in resolving this issue among themselves, which will then be approved by the peace treaty. Today, a person who may be helping them on social grounds is not responsible for any part of the confidentiality of information, part of their responsibility to these parties. We have a very fair, fair European practice. Today you have the opportunity to meet people’s problems, to help them solve these problems. I very much ask you to support this bill as a basis, the technical questions that you have, I'm sure we'll explain and work on the second reading, and the usual.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u54	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u55	And the ordinary Ukrainian citizen requires the adoption of the Mediation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u56	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Ruslan Knazević, "Block of Petra Poroshenko." Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to address all the speakers just now. We're now in the section: factions from factions. So I would ask that we still sum up our performances by some position of each faction. And that seems strange when, for example, we presented this bill, a number of deputies from one faction have one position, and a member of the faction is speaking, and he claims a completely different position. It is not clear what position the faction is because, frankly, we need to follow the stage at which we are dealing with the matter. First. The other one. The Peter Prashenko faction will support the bill set out under registration number 3665 by a whole range of national MPs on the basis that during the second reading procedure, of course -- I've already talked about it as the head of the profiling committee -- a whole series of controversial things that have been discussed today will be taken into account. And most of all, we really need to find a way out of the situation that's going on, because I know the moods of the session room. The session room is not ready to vote in favour of the bill as a whole in this case, unless it is properly regulated and so that it removes all the debates in the hall, the question of who may be the mediator, who has the right, let's say, to initiate this institution, which should be the qualifications of the mediators, and how, let's say, these people should do their work. This seems to be the most controversial part of the bill so far. On the other hand, no one, I hope, denies that this bill has to be adopted, it has nowhere to be put. And we, God willing, will start a fairly new, interesting and necessary institution in our legislation that should not be feared. Just as it should not have been, for example, feared by the Institute of Private Notaries. Now it's become common and completely convenient for Ukrainian citizens. Let me remind you that we are now in the process of establishing a private performer institution. For example, he cut his first ear, was the one who warned, for example, many, including in the session room. But you'll see how in the near future the effectiveness of applying this institution will prove that we've made an absolutely right move with you. And we're finally going to be able to improve that infamous court decision-making statistics, because for some reason no one mentions that with regard to the enforcement of court decisions, Ukraine is paddling the back of the world's ratings, on the average of 6.5 percent. The Mediation Institute will be able to prevent both judicial and judicial decisions from being carried out, because even a positive court decision is not always acceptable to people because it is not being carried out and people do not have a practical outcome from the relevant court decision. This institution immediately allows us to have this practical result, people understand it, see it. For example, by allowing the peace covenant to be made, for example, they are consciously accepting certain moral obligations regarding the fulfillment of the corresponding ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u58	Thank you. We have completed our discussions from factions and are moving on to a discussion from the national MPs. People's deputies are invited to sign up for the talks. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Boris Tarasyuk. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. The proposed Alona Skrum bill raises a very important issue for the development of Ukraine as a legal state. We set up a mediation mechanism as a way to negotiate peace in peace agreements. At present, we have established the principle of neutrality and impartiality of judges and, in connection with this judge, are virtually deprived of the ability to assist the parties in making a peace treaty, since in such actions the judge will certainly take sides or lose impartiality, persuading each party to compromise its interests in order to resolve the conflict peacefully. Moreover, when a judge is tempted to enter into a peace agreement, the parties feel pressured because the judge is able to predict the outcome of the case. That is why an independent mediator's institution, which will seek compromise among people, is very much needed in Ukraine. I propose to support the core project 3665, because it deals with mediation more effectively than it does in an alternative project. At the same time, I would recommend implementing the institution of mediation more actively. In the United States, a judge has the right to oblige the parties to contact the mediator and to stop the conduct of the case for a time in order to try to make a peace treaty. Considering that due to judicial reform, we may now have cases to deal with for a few years, the establishment of a compulsory mediation institution may allow the parties to come to a peaceful settlement of the conflict without being tried by the court. In that case, I think we should put in place an order for random selection of the mediator, for payment of his work from the state budget, and for a simplified order for the approval of the peace agreement without a court hearing and a call for parties. Moreover, I suggest that former judges who have resigned or who have been released at their own request may also be mediators, these people have great experience, and corruption risks and mediation are virtually absent, which will exclude bribe projects. I propose a bill of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u60	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Ruslan Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u61	Please pass on the word "Bird."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u62	Please, National Deputy Victoria Pteshnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to urge you to support the basic bill under number 3665 and to thank my Parliamentary colleague, Alona Shkrum, for initiating the bill and for joining the list of authors. I know that the initiative to mediate and implement this institution is also one of the government’s mandatory initiatives. In addition, the institution of mediation was supported by the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko, for which the government was also particularly grateful. I want to say that the Institute of Mediation is an alternative form of dispute resolution. This means that no one will impose on anyone whether to consult a mediator or not. It's the absolute and exclusive will of the parties who want to solve their dispute in a non-vascular way. In addition, it will be possible to choose a mediator on his own by using a register, since the bill also introduces a register that will provide information about all mediators so that the parties are free to choose. In addition, the bill provides for the special training of mediators, on the one hand, and for the responsibility of mediators, because they must be completely competent persons, who must also be responsible for certain violations. And they have to be independent, not involved. In addition, there was a question of how this institution of mediation relates to judicial reform. I'd like to answer that question, because I think the institution of mediation is a completely organic and consistent complement to the judicial reform that we're working on. Because today we know that the level of, unfortunately, trust in the judicial system leaves us with a desire for a better one. We all want justice on the one hand. On the other hand, the judges are extremely overburdened with court cases, which may result in disputes in court for several years, which are totally inconvenient and does not, in fact, contribute to the protection of citizens’ rights. That's why the institution, such as mediation as an alternative kind of dispute, the settlement of the dispute will allow the judicial system to be dismantled, allow the parties to be completely saved, and the time, if not necessary, to address the judges on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to point out that even when a mediation system is in place, it will not deprive you of the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u64	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u65	does not deprive the parties of their right to a trial. Likewise, the parties will be able to appeal to judgment. So once again, I urge you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u66	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy John Krulk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u67	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will unanimously support our colleague Alona Shkrum's bill, Bill 3665: draft Mediation Act. In general, the format of relationships such as mediation and the creation of independent mediators is quite common in countries of the European Union. And this is a very good, very good opportunity to unload the courts from the unnecessary handling of cases that can be resolved in a nonjudicial way. Of course, this law should be adopted in the first reading today and further developed in the second reading. At the same time, however, it should be noted that mediation can take place both in civil and family, in work, in business, in administrative disputes, in criminal conduct, and in administrative matters. From this law, I think all those who are forced to address matters that can be resolved in a non-judicial way are forced to refer to the courts. In doing so, the law is very clear about the requirements for a mediator, the qualifications for doing so. In addition, the law very well defines those restrictions on the activities of the mediator that cannot be, which a person cannot do. At the same time, it is very important that even if the parties have agreed to use mediation to resolve their dispute, it does not deprive them of their ability to turn to the court and prove their right in court. So I would like to encourage the session room to vote in the first reading on Bill 3665 as the most balanced, because we still have an alternative bill, and by working quickly on the second reading, to move to the session room, by creating a new institution in Ukraine that will bring Ukraine closer to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u68	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u69	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I've said it a couple of times already. But I'll tell you that I understand how positive the full-reading procedure is, because it allows you to hear the position of many deputies. I very much hope that this position will not only be expressed by passionate, totally flaming, right and intelligent, but also by specific suggestions for second reading so that we can work on them effectively together. And I would like to invite, on occasion, the head of the committee of all the authors of intelligent, effective and practical, necessary proposals not only to make these proposals, but to work in preparation for the second reading if we make this decision, we will hold a round table, we will certainly create a working group on the basis of, hopefully, a subcommittee. And I think I'm going to take the initiative and I'm going to invite all the speakers who have produced their smart ideas to continue to show, let's say, the effectiveness of their proposals, to prove them at the professional level. And then together, we could go to the point where we could soon commit the adoption of this law in general until a year ago it was introduced into the session hall. It would be very desirable if it were possible for us to start this institution in 2016, and since the 17th year after the corresponding New Year's and Christmas holidays, it has been possible for consumers to be implemented in Ukrainian realities. Because this is exactly the time when it's over, you know, in the first quarter of the 17th year of the reform of the Supreme Court, there's still going to be a reform of the appeals courts, of the local courts. And I think that the introduction of these two new institutions at the same time will allow not only, let's say, what we've been talking about to provide better access to justice in the Ukrainian state, but also a non-judicial solution to the issue. So once again, on behalf of the faction, we support the draft bill by authoring a whole series of people's deputies, 3665, on the basis of which we invite all those who spoke during the discussion to work on proposals in the second reading, in the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u70	Thank you. And the final speech, please, National MP Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u71	I beg you to pass the word to the Pigeon. I support the law. Dove Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u72	Please, Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 107th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues! I urge all of you to support Bill 3665 by Alona Skrum and a number of other national deputies for the following reasons. I was privileged to defend one of my master’s programs at the British University. Britain is one of those countries where the media institute is very actively distributed. In particular, about 60 percent of all the disputes that arise between the parties, both commercial disputes and any civil disputes, are resolved in a non-judicial way, such as the Mediation Institute and the Arbitration Institute. The Mediation Institute will greatly improve our situation with the judicial branch of power because: (a) it will unload this branch of authority; (b) it will significantly reduce corruptive factors. The Mediation Institute will also allow the parties, in fact, to find a simpler way to resolve simple disputes and not to burden our courts. The bill is a logical continuation of the judicial reform that our country is currently undergoing. And I believe that the adoption of this bill will make it possible to bring our justice closer to European standards. So, dear fellows, once again I urge you all to adopt Bill 3665 as a basis. And I'm also proposing to prepare a draft for the second reading procedure. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u74	Thank you. We have time for another performance. National MP Victoria Birds, will you be speaking or next? Please, National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u75	I'm sorry, I'm taking my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u76	Thank you. I think we can finish the discussion. Then let's make some final statements from the reporters and the co-reporters, and we can go to the vote. Please, a closing statement from the reporter, Mrs. Alona Skrum. National Deputy Alona Shkrum, closing statement. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u77	My colleagues, thank you so much for your support. And you know, I'm here to support Ruslan Knazevitch, and I think that the whole read-out procedure has actually given us a lot of useful things for this discussion, it's given us for further elaboration of the law. Indeed, as a team of authors, we have heard differing thoughts from various mediators, including from the Odessa School of Media, which is the basis of the virtually alternative law passed by Mr. Kival. And I think we're very productive about this bill for the second reading. I ask everyone to take the basis of bill 3665 and continue to invite everyone to join in the work. We'll take off all the warnings we've made here. We're going to try to work out, maybe more age sense and experience for the mediator himself, because there was a warning here that 25 years as a minimum age for a mediator could be too little and a young person would be too young for that. So I think we're going to work on this constructively. In fact, the bill passed round tables, and committees, and a huge number of meetings with the mediators themselves, and discussions, and discussions in Parliament. I think we now have this bill to vote on as a basis, to entrust the committee to prepare it for second reading once again by involving all the active parties. And this will be a good example of that, without looking at it as a long procedure, but it's right, it's quality, it's beautiful, and this Parliament can show professional work for the right bills, supported by both international experts, and noted in our World Bank programmes, and the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Petrenko, who sent letters to the committee, for which I also thank him, and in fact all the factions, as far as I know now, who are in the coalition, and the factions of opposition, including. That's why I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. This will be an important step, an important signal for investors, an important signal for European partners, an important signal for business and for mediators themselves who are working today without legal regulation and, indeed, 25 years trying through the Supreme Council to resolve this issue legislatively, to set specific conditions, requirements for mediators themselves and to regulate this process so that we can trust in it and run it as part of Ukraine's judicial reform. So please support Bill 3665, I'm addressing all factions and non-fractional national MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I ask the factions to invite the heads of factions into the hall. I now conclude by inviting the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiwalov Sergija Vasilovich. No, it's not. And a closing statement to the head of the Committee, please. And after that, the decision is made. Everyone, please come into the hall. Prince, Mr. Ruslan, are you from the rostrum or are you from the rostrum? Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u79	I want to thank you once again on behalf of the committee for having the opportunity to have a productive discussion. Frankly, this is not always an opportunity to communicate professionally on important subjects. I think the topic of mediation is one of the non-conflict themes in the session room. And the fact that the authors of the first bill are representatives of six MP factions and another bill a representative of another faction, is evidence that I hope that the vast majority of the session room positively perceives the establishment of this very important new institution. Of course, we have certain concerns and fears about how effective they will be when some novelties in Ukrainian legislation appear. All of this will show practice and show time. Friends, we're lawmakers, if we see that we made a mistake, I don't remember when we passed a bill and didn't change it, we don't have any such bills. Similarly, this bill is not dogma; we will be able to correct it if the practice leads back. On behalf of the committee, if the bill is accepted as a basis, I would like to invite everyone once again to a discussion. I hope that the drafters of the bill will take an active part in this discussion. And I would ask, first of all, the author of the second bill, as we agreed at the first committee meeting, to make those rational proposals that he has in that bill, which we have in the form of amendments to the second reading, so that we can jointly consider them and give them an expert legal evaluation. For our part, we promise that not only the authors will be included in this working group, but all the desirable national deputies, all the factions, all the interested persons outside Parliament, these are also representatives of Ukrainian legal science, practices, representatives of the judiciary, representatives of local authorities, public authorities, so that they can express their position. We will certainly rely on the position expressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration in the first reading, very much looking forward to the position of the Chief Legal Authority during the second reading procedure. And I hope that by working together, we will soon be able to come up with a proposal that will be acceptable and will have the prospect of passing this bill as a whole. Thank you very much and invite everyone to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u80	Thank you, colleagues. Thus, the discussion is concluded. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. There was a long discussion of the bill. But it looks like we've come to a common position -- to accept it in the first reading. And this was evidenced by actually all the factions and groups in Parliament. I hope that our discussion will end with a positive decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Mediation Act (No. 3665) as a basis, colleagues, emphasis, just as a basis. All the warnings we're going to be able to work on are the second reading. Please vote. Please support 3665 on a base. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:27:17]] For 238. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee that worked very intensively and for a long time. But I will continue to call for more intensive work. Now we have the same block, deregulation and development of business climate, four bills for second reading, there are few amendments, there are few amendments. So I ask everyone to join in intensive work. Next is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to remove administrative barriers to export services) (number 4496). It's a second-reading block. And consideration, this is the reporter's report, and then the amendment. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please prepare yourself for the amendments. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, I present your opinion prepared by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship for the second reading of Bill 4496: on removing administrative barriers to the export of services. This is an extremely important economic bill, since it removes the artificial barriers that stand in the way of the introduction of foreign exchange by Ukrainian exporters, atheists, creative industries, and the introduction of foreign exchange into the country. This bill provides for the possibility of external economic contracts, contracts not only in writing, but also in electronic form, as is done in other countries, as well as through the adoption of a public offering for electronic communications. So we're essentially bringing Ukrainian legislation into line with the economic realities that exist in the world today, so that Ukraine is competitive in the field of exports of services in the world. We also forbid banks to require exporters to translate documents from English into Ukrainian, because banks have more financial and organisational capacity than those small entrepreneurs - exporters of services, representatives of the creative industry. We foresee recognition of the invasion by an initial document that will simplify accounting procedures, the possibility of e-signing. I would like to point out that this bill has been the result of the work and removal of a number of warnings on our committee. I want to thank all those who amended the drafters, the authors of the bill, Sergei Ivanovich Kiral, Alexander Volodymyrni Kugel, who made many amendments, and other colleagues. Dear colleagues, I think we should come to a political compromise today: adopt this very, very important bill -- and assist Ukrainian exporters in introducing proceeds to Ukraine. In addition, I would like to point out that, in addition to the decision of the committee that was adopted yesterday, we discussed on the committee and there is a proposal for the 20th line of the bill of the right column to be clarified by the following wording: paragraph two: "The requirements of part one of this article are not extended to export services other than transport services." Add "and insurance, intellectual property rights," add "author and adjacent rights." I think that's the right clarifications that we have to support today in the complex and adopt a second-reading bill and generally as a law to do our utmost to promote Ukrainian IT, creative industries, all those who provide intellectual services in order to eliminate that artificial currency control that is not working in this area today, I'm just creating essentially artificial regulatory barriers. Because when we talk about exports of goods today, it's perfectly clear that export control is necessary, necessary, vital. The cars we say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u82	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u83	Thank you. When we talk about exports of services, you and I understand that it's impossible to control the cross-border service, so that the export control mechanism that exists today is essentially just propaganda. That's why we're proposing this bill to clean up this campaign, to facilitate the legal establishment of a foreign exchange transfer of service exporters to Ukraine. Please support me in my second reading and in general with the refinements I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Victor. Stay in the rostrum. I'm going to put it to a vote, of course, with this proposal that you've made under the transcript. Now, there's not much left over, but I'm going to make an ad on each of them. So 4th, National Deputy Gusak. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! While some members of the Supreme Council are trying to do something for Ukrainian exports, it continues to fall. In January-August 2016, exports of goods from Ukraine decreased by almost 10 percent. In September, the results will be even worse, as Ukraine's Crossroads contributed significantly to the decline in Ukrainian exports. Because the Crucifixion did not banally buy fuel, with millions, billions of dollars in bills, hundreds of thousands of contracted products did not reach consumers in Eastern Europe and Ukrainian ports. As far as this is concerned. This is about increasing the maturity of the return on currency from 180 to 180. Can I have 10 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u86	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u87	In 270 days. Dear colleagues, in today’s world, there is always competition for sales, for sales, and often consumers demand credit, and let’s say the standard loan term is 180 days, but in many markets it takes 2 months for Ukrainians to prove production. So my amendment will provide additional opportunities for Ukrainian producers, exporters. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u88	Comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Georgievich. I want to say that I fully share your warnings, your concern about falling critical exports by regulations that exist, but at the same time, this amendment does not apply to the scope of this bill, it is not subject to regulation of this bill, so I propose that we include it in the following legislation on monetary liberalisation, which will apply not only to exports of services, but also to the entire Ukrainian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u90	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. 6 amendment, Galasjuk is the author. Kugel wants confirmation. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry, I'm not asking for confirmation, I want to make the rules of editing this point purely editorial. "The powers of part one of this article are not extended to export services." The bracket "(except for transport, insurance)" closes and then goes "the rights of intellectual property, adjacent and copyright." And it closes the crazed hole in the flow of monetary values. Please vote in the final edition, as the committee head said.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u92	Please answer, but you said so, take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u93	Yes, thank you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrna, for stressing once again in this important position. I propose that when we vote on the bill as a whole, we put it in a transcript, taking into account this position that I sounded at the beginning, and you just made it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Seventh, Semenha. Is it insisting? No, it's not. The 9th, Semenha. Don't insist. 10th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u95	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Generally speaking, the right bill contains, I think, one completely wrong norm for many reasons. For reasons such as State creation and nation-building, and for another reason, essentially the control functions of the State, the relevant authorities. It is proposed to remove the requirement for translation of documents from English into English. You know, when the requirement to translate documents from English into English is removed, it creates tremendous opportunities for further abuse. Because you can interpret and translate a document if you don't have an official translation. And then you can't hold anyone accountable, because he always says, "Well, look, I've treated this document this way. There's no official translation, so it's okay. And you treat it that way, that's your problem." So I would still suggest that this rule be removed, and I would like to leave all the relevant documents with an official Ukrainian translation. This is perfectly logical in the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u96	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for supporting this bill as a whole. As for your support for your proposal for this standard, I would like to point out that this is not about the fact that there should be no official translation, but the point is that banks are not competent, according to the law, they will require this translation from those small business exporters of IT services, other intellectual products. So banks have more organisational and financial capacity and can provide this translation in an official way, as provided for by the current legislation. But this, this standard, as suggested by the committee, makes it much easier to work for small entrepreneurs who do intellectual work. It's an activity. So I'm asking you to keep the committee editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u98	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? He insists on voting. Therefore, whoever supports Amendment 10 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, the committee rejected it, please vote. Please vote. [[11:38:30.]] For 104 The decision is not made. 11th, Spinov. Don't insist. 12th, Spinov. Don't insist. 14th, Semenha. Don't insist. 15th, Sold. Don't insist. And the last, 21, Simeoniah. Don't insist. Colleagues! We finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, prepare for the decision. We're just making corrections, there's no factions here. And as they enter the Hall, one minute, Mr. Victor, I ask you clearly, for the transcript, to mark this amendment with which I will put the bill to the vote. Please, Victor Halasyuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I want to thank all the initiators of this bill: The IT industry, other creative industries, the authors of the bill, the members of the committee and the working group -- who worked very hard to remove all the warnings, all the criticism, and put this professional editorial in the hall. I would like to ask you to support this bill in second reading and in general as a law, with the refinements that Alexander Volodymyrn has made under the transcript, and also with additional technical and legal work, with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. Let's adopt this important bill, make it a law. And let's take down the barriers to the foreign exchange proceeds of Ukrainian exporters of services to Ukraine. We'll support the Ukrainian IT industry and the creative industries. We need money to make it a stable bracelet to keep the prices in stores normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u100	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the government supports the bill and recommends its adoption. And we can move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs, we're moving on to decision-making, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the removal of administrative barriers to export services) (Nom. 4496), which reads under the transcript of the head of the committee Victor Halasyuk and Alexander Kugel, in the second reading and in general with technical law. Whoever supports this proposal, the government proposal, please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:41:23]] For 270. Decision taken. Colleagues, I've had two petitions for intermission, one from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction, the other from the People's Front and the Prashenka Block. If it's from yours. They agree to replace the break with the performances. I'll give it first. I'll give it first when I get there. Colleagues, will you agree, how'd it go? Lies, can we get the first ones from the Front? The first one will be from the People's Front, the Peter Dusty Block. Instead of taking a break, let's not break up. I invite you to the address of Yuri Berezu. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u101	Dear friends, brothers, citizens of Ukraine! From now on, in the towers of the Supreme Council came the brilliant propagandist of the Russian world, Helen Bondarenko. She's been dragged here into the puddles. Panich, that's where Mr. Wilkul is sitting. This impurity pollutes Ukraine on all Russian channels. I don't know what we need to do now, after that, in the Supreme Council. Should I call a sanispektor to make disinfection, or should I call a father-in-law to sanctify him afterwards? But I realize that this panic has already lost its sense of reality. This panic has attracted, sorry, this inhumanity, which was one with the author of the solution to the war on Donbassa. This is the man who drew Russian channels to promote the killing of Ukrainians. I want my statement by the Head of the Security Service to be accepted as an official address. Why are these bastards still going through Ukraine?Oh, my God! Why are these bastards still in the Ukrainian Parliament?Oh, my God! It's a disgrace to the opposition block. It shows once again that it is not opposition – it is the fifth column, it is Russian mancure! Shame on them! Mr. Head of the Security Service, you're my fighting brother. But your service should work on these cases and should not go through the Ukrainian Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Next performance from two factions of Self-Help and the Radical Party. Alona Babak, please, three minutes to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! The self-help faction of July this year is trying to hold a dialogue with the government on the issues that concern every Ukrainian today. We tried to lead this dialogue in a civilized, normal way, by addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with suggestions, comments, in anticipation of answers. Sadly, these answers are not available today. The first block of issues on which we applied to the government is to base tariffs on residential services because of the profitability of Naftogazu Ukraine. We were told that by the end of August this year the government had not even a financial plan for this company by the end of this year, and the government has no financial plan for 2017. So today, from this rostrum, we ask the government to provide information to the entire community, to the entire Parliament, about what rate of cost-effectiveness of the production and implementation of gas is included in the price of gas, in the current gas price? Second, show the actual profitability of Naftogazu Ukraine by segment of optical gas trade in nine months. Show the amount of dividends that Ukraine's budget expects from this company this year and is scheduled for next year. Because these are the indicators that depend on whether the tariff rise is justified today? Because Naftogaz of Ukraine reported that it has 21 billion net earnings just in the first half of this year. We think there's a direct link between the profitability of this company, government control of this measure, because actually for the population it's a monopoly, it's a government special responsibility. The second block of questions, it's a matter of warm loans for those who can't get them, for the poor. I got a very angry appeal from a Dniper citizen, who do you do these loans for if we people, with the income of a pension of 1 thousand 200 dollars, can't get them, that's less living minimum? And "Storageman" and "Survey Bank" won't let a man replace a window of credit. We demand today from the government the adoption in Ukraine of a targeted energy efficiency programme with a mechanism to provide state support to replace windows to people who are outside of poverty but help them from the state. The third cluster of issues is money subsidies. Yesterday, we get information from Ternopol: zero OSB grant recalculation. Lviv: 10 percent of OSB subsidies, Kharkivs: all OSBBs are being blocked, and today they demand to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u104	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u105	To get to the OSB to advance payment of gas, they're the ones who have boilers. We're demanding a transfer to cash grants. We have not received information from the government as to why it is impossible to do so. All thermal energy and water canals are in the block because of unmonetized subsidies. And the third question. We have a totally unhealthy game going on in the gas and heat market. Whoever catches up with them is either a heat tariff for budgetary institutions or they can either catch up with the changes in the price of gas for budgetary organizations. Today, Naftogaz sent out information about the sale of gas for the production of heat for the budget institutions for 300 dollars more than it was in October, if an advance fee, and another 800 dollars more, if the actual payment is paid. Deputies! Dear National Energy and Utilities Control Commission! Stop this vacchanal when one tariff cannot be reached by another, or release the prices for the budget to others for both heat and gas, or do something because a new debt is formed each day. It's a message from the Self-Help faction to government and state regulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, are finished speaking from the factions. We are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity, on the Liberalization of the State Oversight System (number 2418a). And I invite the head of the committee, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, to report. Mr. Galasyuk. Yes, yes. 2418a report, second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u107	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, I present your view of the draft Law (2418a) on the liberalisation of the system of State oversight (control) in the field of economic activity, prepared for re-reading. I want to point out that this is not just a fundamental bill, it's probably one of the most important economic bills of the year. Why? Because he's looking at principles, principles, government oversight and control mechanisms, and he's doing a completely different model of government oversight and control that should not be pressured on business, but to ensure society's security, but to rule out corruption risks and pressures on business. What's the big difference between this model that we're proposing and the model that exists today? First of all, it's a presumption of the rightfulness of the subject. In cases where legislation can determine the rules that can be interpreted both for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of the entrepreneur, ambiguous standards, they are treated in favour of the enterprise. This is the implementation of an integrated automated system of government oversight and control, which will record all the checks that take place in the country, both in the planning and in the out-of-plan. And their reasons, their initiators, their content, their results, that is, all of this can be traced. There will be no more people being tested in a culinary way and doing it 50 times, and others are not touching at all, and there is no telling why they are testing the results of the test. This bill, the bill, it introduces a ban on the establishment of planned detection of violations, there should be no such phenomenon in Ukraine. It introduces a risk-oriented verification system, not just to check everyone in a row, but to see where there are higher risks, where there are more frequent tests, where there are lower risks, much less tests. This bill introduces annual inspection plans and prohibits their changes over the year, limits the maximum frequency of checks, depending on the level of risk. The high risk is not more frequent than once every two years, the average is no more than once every three years if the risk is low than once every five years. This bill unifies the forms of acts, limits the circle of issues that are controlled. The annual transparent report on the implementation of the annual state control plans so that society will know how the system works. Time limits for scheduled inspections of the State and Control: 10 working days and 5 working days for micro and small business. If the test is complex, the maximum duration is 30 working days, for micro and small enterprises 15 working days.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u108	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u109	The bill prohibits the re-implementation of State control and control measures, and initiated by the same fact, only provides for minimum sanctions for the first violation. If there is a fork of sanctions from larger to smaller, smaller ones are applied. There is the right of an entrepreneur not to allow testers to be tested if they violate the rules of this law, including the grounds and periodicity of the tests. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. Let's focus, please. And let's go. 7th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 10th. At 10, Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u111	Dear friends and the honourable chairman of the committee, I ask the regulatory committee to make a clear change that if there are several laws on the committee that touch on changes to one law, they should be united into one law. Because now the committee head will report the changes to one law three times, three bills. And that's why mistakes happen. Mr. Victor, my 4th amendment makes it clear that you've taken into account which organs are not affected by this. But then in Bill 3153 we expand it 10 times. And that's why I'm asking you to pay attention to what we are. will vote on this bill, it's beautiful, it's very well worked out with social networking, and then on that bill, they're going to remove article 27. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Volodymyr, these laws are autonomous. Bill 3153 envisions this as a setting that freezes scheduled tests for six months. So we're going to get to his discussion right now, and we're going to go to the amendment. I propose to support this bill, as decided by the committee, in the second reading and in general as a law with technical legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u114	Do you insist on voting? So it's the vote, amendment number 10. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't insist. Okay. 13th, Lensky. Lechenko. Sorry, hardware error. Please, 13th Amendment. Now. There's an insistence on the 10th. Excuse me, there's an insistence on the 10th vote, right? Please, Victoria Sumar, one minute. Victoria Sumar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, this is Mr. Sverk's amendment. He's in the hospital right now. As head of the committee, please, we've spoken to the committee head, here's a technical error. This is about the fact that Nakrad has also been included here, which has been banned, but the Nakrad Act allows any action to be taken only after verification. And that's how we make this organ completely ineffective. That's why we agreed with the committee head that we are editorially writing in this case that the operation of this law does not extend to the state control of television and radio. If the head of the committee now confirms it under the transcript, we can essentially think of this as being settled. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u116	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. I would like to point out that after today's political consultations with the factions of the People's Front, the Petra Prashenko Block, I would like to emphasise further to the decision of the committee that was adopted that in order for this law not to be overturned, in order for it to be adopted, because it is necessary for all Ukrainian entrepreneurs. I'm proposing, under the transcript, that we take a partial account of Mr. Schwerk's 10 revisions only in part of state surveillance, television control and radio talk. And I would like to ask you, when we put this bill to final support, to vote with this clarification on the right column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u118	I'm going to put the committee head to the vote with this amendment, and that's how we're going to vote. Therefore, there is no need to vote now. 13th, Levenchenko. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u119	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, look, there's a lot of words to be said about freeing business from over-regulatory checks, from over-regulation, and that's the right word. But it is forgotten once again that it is still necessary to protect the Ukrainian people from a completely irresponsible business, such as the construction mafia, which now destroys every major city of Ukraine, every district center, and especially the capital of Ukraine. We see what's happening to us, we see the subway stations falling apart, we see where the parks, the playgrounds are going, and what's coming out of them. My amendment, which concerns that this law does not touch on the issue of urban inspections, so that it is further regulated by the relevant professional laws, the Law, in particular on urban activity, because if you now write here in this law again and again, essentially canceling the checks of forgetfulness, this vachanal will be further strengthened. That's why I'm addressing all the majors right now, especially the big cities, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u120	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u121	I call now, especially all majors from major cities, do not vote in favour of this law if it does not exclude the regulation of urban activities. If it is not excluded, this law will cause a further wave of illegal forgetfulness and destruction of the living space of the Ukrainian people. I urge you to support this amendment. And if it's not supported, don't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u122	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u123	Thank you, Sir Yuri. I would like to point out that we have foreseen exceptions to architectural (control) surveillance only in the part of monitoring compliance with the requirements of small-mobile population groups. That was in line with the President's address on disability issues, that's the first time. Secondly, I would like to point out that this law, the bill, does not in any way limit the possibility of checks, including those that may be pre-planned, which may be the basis for both the conversion of individuals and the commission of the Prime Minister, and do not give, God, some kind of accident. So there is no restriction on testing in this section. But finding architectural and building control in the overall state oversight (control) is extremely important because no one has the right to pressure entrepreneurs in which they would not work if this is not reflected in the overall integrated verification system. So this is about accountability, transparency, the only rules of the game for all sectors. At the same time, there is no ban on testing. That's why I insist on drafting the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, do they insist on voting? Anyone who supports amendment No. 13 of the People's Deputy Levchenk and a number of other deputies, please vote. It's a committee against it. Please vote. [[12:01:36]] For-88 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that I am continuing our meeting until the issue is resolved. Then the break will be announced. There's still about 20 amendments, I think, 10 minutes to get you to your position. One minute in ten, there'll be a vote. Next, 14th, Hooker. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to take another look at what our colleague Lewchenko said. He's actually right. And I, in principle, support the concept of this bill and agree with Victor Halasyuk, but we have to pay your attention to the following. Today's drafts, especially the next one, will be bill 3153, if I'm not mistaken, if we vote in an editorial that, without at least my rights, we won't be able to test any building object, the State Architectural Building Inspection, except for the pandas. Let's give ourselves some answers, the pandas are being put into operation, they're being built at the very last minute, after the object is actually already being sold, all the underground parking is already built, and only then can we talk about these pandas. And that's the problem. This is the only nuance I'd like to say for everyone to pay attention to. I talked about it on the committee, I applied. One of my revisions is partially accounted for, another revision, this one, I see, is rejected, although I insist on it again. And once again, I ask you to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u126	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, thank you for your amendment, for your offer. You rightly pointed out that your second revision is counted. But here we've suggested that the committee's joint decision not to take this into account, because it's not about banning verifications by State Architectural Supervision, but it's only about the fact that these checks have to be subject to the general framework of control, they're absolutely transparent for the entire Ukrainian society. At the same time, I stress once again that the reasons for the out-of-plan control measures, including in the field you have called, are: the appeal of individuals to violate their rights, which has caused some damage; the Prime Minister's mandate to inspect subjects; the imposition, do not give God, accident or other unforeseen cases; even the failure of the subject to manage the documents required for two reporting periods. So this is not how we reduce the possibility of out-of-plan checks. But at the same time, we're putting general planning checks under the single system framework. That's why I insist on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u128	Mr. Krivoshia, is he insisting on the vote? Yes. Therefore, whoever supports the proposal number 14 of the People’s Deputies of Krivoshii, please vote. Please vote. [[12:04:45]] For-152. The decision is not made. Next. 17th, Drozdick. Don't insist. 18th, Macola. Don't insist. 19th, Solvar. Don't insist. 20th, Boguslaev. Don't insist. 21st, Fishbuck. Don't insist. 22nd, Lensky. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, this is a technical error again, instead of Lechchenko written Lensky. The 22nd amendment is the amendment of Lechchenk. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u129	Thank you. This amendment of mine concerns the same issue of excluding the issue of "state architectural and building control" from this law. I'm responding to what the reporter said. First of all, there's a manipulation that somehow the question is still being ruled out. This is excluded only in the following Law 3153, the bill, and that is, as it was said, the pandas, in no way at all, are actually excluded, and so on, the uncontrolled building activity remains. Secondly, when the reporter tells us that this law applies exclusively to the transparency of scheduled checks, it is an outright lie. Because, for example, I am setting a specific standard for this bill at the end, which will also be under my authority, which says that the host subject will not be held accountable for failure to provide the wrong information to the requirement during the inspection. That's bullshit! If this law is adopted in this way, leaving urban activity in it will lead to a frenzy of illegal activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u130	I'll answer that. Mr. Head, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u131	Ten seconds, finish Lechchenko, then you answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u132	For example, it is not possible to check the building if the builder refuses to explain his activity in general and does not bear any responsibility. That's bullshit! So I say, I demand that you take out the urban activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u133	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your offer. I would like to point out that (referred to by Mr. Krivoshia, there is an amendment to his 2nd amendment) the draft law provides that State architectural and building control (supervisement) is carried out taking into account the specificities defined by law and in the relevant spheres. A transitional period is also set for necessary changes to the special law. So, on the one hand, we're saving this area in a general sense, in a general framework of state control, on the other hand, we're not creating any social risks about the inability to verify construction. And what's more, I'm going to stress that the transparency of the tests is not just about the planned ones, it's about the out-of-plan ones. Because all checks and plans and out-of-plans are subject to the introduction of an integrated state surveillance and control base so that everyone knows the reasons, consequences and effectiveness of these checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u135	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yes. So, whoever supports the amendment of the 22 People’s Deputies of Lehchenk, please vote. [[12:08:13]] For-97 The decision is not made. Let's move on. So, 30th, Sold. Don't insist. 32nd. It's Lensky already. Is that right? Don't insist. 33rd, Captain. Don't insist. 35th, Lensky. Don't insist. 38th, Sold. Don't insist. I'm reporting that I continued the session until the end of the matter. 48th, Levenchenko. He insists. Yeah? Please turn on Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u136	Thank you. I'm paying attention to the session hall, our audiences and audiences, and everyone else about what's going on here being openly manipulated. They say you can't get urban activity out of this law, but there's a whole list of activities that aren't going to be regulated by this law. Recently, the issue of television and radio talk was brought up, correctly introduced, and removed from this law. There is no foreign exchange control, customs control, government export control, fiscal, banking supervision and so on. This is a huge list. So all this stuff is going to be pulled out right, and, you see, the builders, the building mafia that's destroying our cities, we can't pull it out! Maybe because someone brought a couple of suitcases with dollars, so they can't get it out, right? So I demand that the issue of urban activity be taken out of this law as well as other sectors of the economy that are not here either, and you stop cracking the building mafia, as this is happening all the time in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u137	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Jury, according to your amendment 48 restrictions on the check periods that have been submitted, they are counted elsewhere in line fifty-second and I have sounded them under the transcript at the beginning of the performance. Dear colleagues, let's adopt this law, which is very much needed by Ukrainian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u139	Do they insist on voting? Whoever supports the amendment of the 48th People's Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. [[12:10:43]] For 109 The decision is not made. Next 61. Sold. Don't insist. 70th, Sold. Don't insist. 77th, Dove. Don't insist. 78th, Bird. Don't insist. The '80s, Sold. Don't insist. Colleagues, there's still a few rights left. Please invite the deputies to the Hall, please invite the deputies to the Hall. 75th counted editorially. Not counted. 75th, Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u140	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. This amendment of mine, which very well illustrates the manipulation that we hear from the rostrum today when it says that this law, you see, is so wonderful, there is no strong liberalisation. In fact, a new edition of the sixth part of article 6 of the Law suggests that there is a need to determine the basis for nonscheduled measures not to be made mandatory in two consecutive reporting periods. It should be understood, however, that in some cases the reporting period may be one year and there will be no sense, no purpose, in carrying out extracurricular measures after the two - part period. If, for example, two years went by, the pressure to conduct an unscheduled check on a 25 - story building and the apartments were sold for nothing. This is an example of where regulatory actions are now being pursued. So I insist on this amendment to clear this rule of two periods and also of all my other amendments to urban activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u141	Please, Mr. Victor. Or should I put it right away?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Yuri, it's taken into account editorially. If you put it on confirmation, it will not be supported, it will not be taken into account. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, this law is very much needed by Ukrainian entrepreneurs and industrialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u143	So I would like to vote on amendment 75, which supports amendment 75 of the Lewchenka People's Deputies, please vote. [[12:13:10]] For-126 The decision is not taken. So let's move on. 106th, Sotnik. Don't insist. 119th, Sold. Don't insist. 123rd, Levechenko. He insists, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u144	I'm sorry, but I'm insisting on my amendment to 82, which is equally unaccounted for. Written: edited. He just told the reporter that it was supposed to be edited. In fact, the amendment is not counted, as it has been. It refers to the same question as the fact that it is not possible to impose a rule that the failure of the holders of the required records in two consecutive reporting periods without valid reasons or without providing written explanations. That's the only reason we're going to have to do a proper background check. You can't put that in. Because the pre-planned check is two years from now, if the corresponding period is a year, and the two corresponding periods are two years, it's completely meaningless and it won't give anything. So this is another point in this law that can't be used for all sectors of the economy. I stress once again that the different sectors of the economy have a completely different impact on society, on the space of life, and have to regulate differently. One law cannot be made, for example, for food, for ecology, and for urban documentation. That's bullshit. I demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Yuri, I ask you not to invalidate your own amendments, which are dealt with editorially. I ask you to support the committee's position: to adopt this bill with the amendments I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u146	Are you demanding a vote? 82-a, right? Those who support the amendment of the 82 People's Deputies of the Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[12:15:11]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 85th, I've got it written, edited. Not counted. Please, 85th Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u147	When very often different committees say that the amendments are edited, it's manipulation when they're completely off-limits, and to overwhelm an inconsiderate MP or a room or someone else, it's written that they're considered editorially. These are my revisions, which are just about this question of the two verification periods -- 75ths, 82nds, 85ths, 87ths, they're completely off-limits. I insist on voting now for the 85th amendment, which just applies, once again, the question that the reporting period may in some cases be one year, and taking pre-planned action only after the two-year period is a complete nonsense, and it makes no sense to take extra-planned action at all as such. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u148	Can you count the amendments you insist on voting? Eighty-five. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u149	In this context, when we're talking about this case, we're left with this 85th and 87th amendment. So you can put two votes at once: 85ths, 87ths.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u150	This is not supposed to be the case: two changes to be made. I'll put it one at a time. So whoever supports Amendment 85 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[12:16:55]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Anyone who supports amendment 87 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[12:17:14]] For the 180. The decision is not made. 123rd. Last amendment, 123rd. Please, National Deputy Levchenko. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u151	It's good that this amendment is the last, because it's a quintension of this law, and why it can't be used for certain sectors of the economy. The law suggests that the subject of farming, I now quote: “The subject of farming, the officials of the subject of farming, the legal persons are not responsible for refusing to give testimony or explanations about the activity of the subject of farming. ” If you leave this rule behind, any test will make no sense at all. Because if you're being checked and you say, "I'm not giving you an explanation," and you don't have any responsibility when you have to explain, how can you be tested? Well, how can we check the illegal building, stop it if the developer says, "And I won't tell you anything, so why don't you go to one place?" So I also call for this standard to be taken away. And if this norm is not taken away, if the issue of urban activity is not taken away, I'm going to go to major cities for the last time: don't vote for it, your voters will curse you for it, for this law in that form!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u152	Will you comment? Please, this will be both a comment and then there will be a vote. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Yuri, after this correction you made. I would like to point out that we have foreseen that operators do not give evidence when they take state oversight and control measures. Display is an element of a criminal process. That's why I insist on editing the committee. And I would like you, my fellow Members, to now support this bill as decided by the committee on second reading and as a whole as a law with the adjustment that Mrs. Sumar has made, which I have supported, with technical and legal processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u154	Colleagues, so I'm voting on amendment 123 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[12:19:43]] For 116 The decision is not made. Colleagues, you don't make decisions. What is the correction? Please. Colleagues, if there are any amendments, I give each of you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the correction? What's the number? [[B in m in s a l in]] 6th Amendment. Please turn on the microphone. Drozdik. Please, Drozdick, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Halasyuk, I'm addressing you. You're a little tricky when you say that committee corrections are taken into account, because I happened to find out that my correction that you said was counted is not actually counted. It is very important because this law cannot be extended to the workplace. Labour legislation and employment legislation. This is a direct violation of International Convention No. 81 of the International Labour Organization. If we accept, without taking into account the 6th and 13th amendments, we will in fact violate this convention ratified by Ukraine. So I'm asking you very much to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u156	Colleagues, pay attention! Listen carefully. Now I'm in the committee's decision that they're supported. Please, Mr. Victor, explain. Recall what you include and then the vote will take place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Drozdick, the 6th amendment is my first amendment. Secondly, I emphasize that we cannot go beyond the general scope of state oversight, control, including control in the field of labour, we provide it with the specific features provided for by special legislation, but we leave a general framework, because we have to protect the interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. And it doesn't prohibit testing, it gives birth to transparent, accountable societies. Dear colleagues, please support in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u158	So, colleagues, the 13th amendment we've already put to the vote, we've already discussed the 13th amendment. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So I'm going to put to a vote with this bill, which was announced by Victoria Sumar under the transcript by the head of the committee, Victor Halasyuk. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity on the Liberalization of the State Supervisory System with Rights, which was announced by the head of the Committee under the transcript and which was announced by Victoria Sumar under the stenogram, in the second reading and in general, by the government bill (2418a). Please vote, please support. Who supports the government, yes. Please vote, please support. [[12:23:40]] For 197 Guys, I didn't hear you perform. Maybe, maybe some offer will come from a colleague? Come on, one minute, Fish. I continued to consider the matter, and that is the case. No, read carefully by the end of the discussion. Now I'm asking everyone to stay put. Maybe we're dealing with a misunderstanding right now. I'll ask you a minute, Fishbowl, a minute, Kugel. Find out who's between you. Fish and Kugel in a minute, and then we'll go back to voting if there's a vote. It's very short, if they're law-abiding, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I'll explain why I pressed the red button. The fact is that this law does not take into account the interests of the common people at all. Humans, the appeal of a physical person today to examine violations, can only take place after such a violation has occurred when he is already in harm’s way. How can a person at all write a statement about when he died of unwholesome foods at all, or when he was harmed by the environment? Therefore, the majority did not vote in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u160	Colleagues, friends, I asked you to give options that might lead to a positive vote. We're not in the middle of a discussion right now. I'm asking for more factions. I'll give all the factions, but please stay put. One minute, Kugel, Semimenah, one minute, Sumar, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we must be professionals with you. The income part of the budget is formed by entrepreneurs of different forms of property. And by this bill, and not just citizens, we have arranged for a legislative culture to preserve norm-making and implement decisions in Ukraine. For example, it is written that if I made a comment in time, I would not be fined. And this is support for Ukrainian entrepreneurship. It's not just a citizen, it's a consumer rights law. When we talk about testing, there is no refusal of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out such a test. And all that Mr. Levchenko said is in the law in the third. Unfortunately, three bills, many of them have changed. In the 3 bills, we foresee the possibility of an architectural and building inspection, and in its special law, we do tests, but they're planned. And if it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Kiral, one minute. I'm sorry, I didn't finish Kugel, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, this bill has been developed with experts and business circles. It is professional and very important for Ukraine, for the right to protect those people who are today filling the budget from which you get all the wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u164	Kiral, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I'd just like to pay attention to what's going on. There's a regular fight, well, we're in the middle class today for creating a middle class in Ukraine. The middle class is the foundation of any country, democracy and budgeting, the well-being of the common people that our fellow MPs are talking about today. If someone wants to protect law enforcement, go out on the street, please see where they have led our country in 25 years with their control. So please, we're going to support this middle-class office at least once, and entrepreneurs who create jobs are filling budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u166	Victoria Sumar is one minute. Then Igor Green, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, is it not known that controlling authorities are the main function of corruption in the state at all? Is that a secret to someone? We don't know that liberal reforms start with deregulation? It's a direct law of deregulation, it needs the middle class and people who create jobs. He simplifies their lives. It allows for business, not for breakups with controlling authorities. An extremely important bill. We have no right not to accept it today, colleagues. I know that Victor Halasyuk went to all the compromises that we talked about were ruled out by technical moments. Colleagues, I suggest the next thing. Now we're going to mobilize and try to accept it. At the very least, if there are any principles of observation, it might be another rereading under a reduced procedure to make some nuances. But I strongly urge you to do this today and give green light to the average business in Ukraine and stop these corrupt feeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, let us understand the situation. We've got it. We see, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 64, "The People's Front" is 40. So it's actually up to those two factions now, and that's why I'm looking for a compromise. And so let's give the head of the Peter Dust Block, if there's a compromise, we'll make a decision, if we don't, we won't leave. Please, Mr. Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u169	I'm now addressing, first of all, the MPs of the Peter Dusty Block. The debate that is now in the room and the debate on this vote is in two planes. The first plane is debureaucratization and reduction of the corruption component in government activities. So I ask you to uphold this law. Second, it's government law. And once again, I'm going to the factions of the coalition. We have to support and talk to the government before we go into the room. Today the government passed this law, we supported it, and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u170	I confirm that the government recommends this law to be adopted, that is true. And although he's a deputy, the government is asking the Supreme Council to accept him, colleagues. Guys, look, if we talk for five more minutes, we're not going to make a decision. There was a replica, mentioned Levchenk, and Kugel mentioned it. I'll give you 30 seconds. Lechenko, please, briefly. Then there's Galasjuk. And then the vote. Everyone, please step into the hall and concentrate. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u171	I'd like to sum it up again, because there's just so much outright lying in the hall that it's just a nightmare. First of all, the main issue in this law. This law completely nullifies special laws in specific fields. And there's no question when this really applies, when it really does apply to the middle class, no questions, please. But when they say that the builders who, for example, are now building the banks of Dnipra and saying that Dnipro is the middle river, which is, by the way, sitting here in the hall right now, is the middle class?Oh, my God! When they say that the builders who destroy the Kiev subway stations, that's the middle class?Oh, my God! When do they tell you that all these bandits are middle class?Oh, my God! Excuse me, who are you trying to fool?Oh, my God! So you have a huge list of exceptions in this law. And I'm telling you, don't cross out the urban legislation that you're trying to cross out. Make an exception for State Architectural Control. And there's no question that this "beautiful" law can then be voted on. And in that case, you can't! I urge the majors not to press these.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u172	Colleagues, all the factions, some had two appearances. Now, please enter the Chamber, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Lousyuk, 30 seconds, head of the committee. And please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, this is a bill for the protection of small businesses, that checks should be transparent, accountable to society, that their frequency should be limited, that they should not be altered over the course of the year, so that they know what they came up with, what they came up with. This is the only framework for testing that does not prohibit them, but makes them transparent and overcomes the corruption that exists today, and the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u174	Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And, colleagues, I'm making an offer now. Please come into the hall, colleagues, don't concentrate. I will now put to the vote a return to debate 2418a. They called on the factions and the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front to vote. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for 2418a. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:33:35.]] For the 220. I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put it again. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall, take jobs, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u175	Can I say it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u176	No, you can't. Please concentrate, colleagues. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I've announced that by the end of the discussion, we're taking a break, then there's going to be half an hour for a break, as it's supposed to be. Now six votes, that's the exact level we can go to, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm once again asking everyone to focus. And I'm putting the vote back on draft Law 2418a, please concentrate, please vote. Please vote. Please come into the hall, one more second. Yeah, let's go. Please vote, all the factions are in favour, and we support the government. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:34:53]] For 242 We're back. And I'm putting the bill of Law 2418a, as amended, under the transcript of Victor Halasyuk, Victoria Sumar, in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Please vote in second reading and in general and support. Let's vote, colleagues. This is the government's request and the position of all factions. [[12:35:24]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a recess under the Rules at 13:05. At 13:05, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work. Colleagues, we now have two laws of second reading from our first block of deregulation. There aren't many amendments here, so we'll get through them pretty quickly, colleagues. I'm just asking to invite both the Supreme Council's apparatus and the heads of the factions of the deputies into the hall so that we can get a positive vote. There's a reporter now. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of State control (2531a). I remind you, there's not a lot of amendments, the vote will take place in five or seven minutes, so please invite everyone to the hall. It's a second reading, so we don't vote for the procedure. And I immediately give the floor to the reporter, to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, to Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to introduce you to a second reading of the draft government bill (2531a), which is mutually complementary, complementary to that bill that we have just supported in general. Together, these two bills provide a systematic, inclusive reform of the state oversight and control system in Ukraine. This bill, it's more technical in nature, because after consultation with the Chief Legal Authority, most of the provisions of this bill have been transposed into the 2418a bill that we have just adopted in general. In fact, Bill 2531a left behind rules to amend the Code of Administrative Offences of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice. In addition, in the course of the drafting of the bill, separate rules were removed, including the release of public authorities (control) from payment to the court. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship will propose the adoption of this draft law on second reading and generally as a law with the necessary technical legal work. And before we go into the discussion of rights, I would like to point out that once we have adopted a basic parliamentary bill on this issue, which provides for the presumption of the rightfulness of operators, a limitation of the frequency and duration of inspections of the operators, which provides for a clear, transparent reporting of all public authorities and control of society, which provides for minimum sanctions if this is the first violation of such a subject. It introduces uniform forms of acts to make it absolutely clear what is the reason for the verification, what is the procedure of verification, what are the consequences. So we're removing the conditions, the basis for artificial, corrupt pressure on business, on entrepreneurs, first and foremost, on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Because we know that big business is good at protecting itself. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs today remain completely defenseless from those vulnerable completely controlled bodies that work to squeeze their last juices. So I ask you to support this bill, just as we have supported the previous one, so that we can put a dot on the issue of deep, systemic reform of the regulatory system of Ukraine, so that government oversight and control work on Ukrainian society, to protect interests, but in no way put pressure on Ukrainian entrepreneurs, would in any way create artificial corruption risks, which today are extremely large and hinder the development of Ukraine's economy. Please support this bill as a whole with technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u179	Thank you, dear fellows. That's two.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u180	Please approach the committee head and communicate with him. So, colleagues, we're going to the right, there's not much. And I'm still calling for MPs to be invited into the hall. Please prepare the amendments. 3rd, Sold. Is it insisting? Mrs. Oksana. Don't insist. Four o'clock, Bird. Don't insist. 5th, Bird. Tell me, Ivchenka, what's the deal? 2 redundancies, Yvchenko. I'm told it's counted. But if you insist, of course, I will give you my word. You don't insist, do you? Then be careful how you are told each Sunday. 7th, Captain. Don't insist. 8th, Captain. Don't insist. 9th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 10th, Yvchenka. Mr. Yvchenko, 10 lashes, pay attention. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please, one minute, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask that we take this correction into account, because in this direction we're talking about what we're going to do about testing our entrepreneurs, except that they're going to be placed, they should have a start date. And I'd like to take this into account, because we have to be clear: if we're talking about planning, it's going to be the next year that's going to be included in a list of tests of certain organs. And the organs that will be checked must be ready. It's not like they're gonna come all of a sudden. They don't have any papers. They have to be prepared with documents, finplans, reports, declarations, and so on. Please take into account this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u182	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yvchenko, in the course of drafting the bill for second reading, the corresponding point to which you propose changes has been excluded. And I want to point out that all the changes to the Law on State Control and Control, about the basic principles of self-preservation and control in the field of economic activity, have been transposed into the Bill 2418a, which you and I have just adopted as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u184	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting for 10? Ivchenko does not insist on voting. 11th National Deputy Yvchenko. Is it insisting? It's rejected. Don't insist. Yeah? Next. 13th. Oksana Sold. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 14th. Kiral. Don't insist. 15th, Bird. Is it insisting? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then insist and use the word. Take the word. One minute, Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u185	Thank you. I do not insist on this amendment, but please return to my amendments. There's a fourth amendment, especially when we're through. Because I want to sound it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u186	Sound the 4th amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u187	Please. The 4th amendment applies, so. In my view, it does not seem reasonable to suggest that the authors rule out positions that reinforce the duty of the public authorities to appeal to the Administrative Court on a case-by-case basis to the subject of management of response measures. We're cleaning it up. This is the responsibility of government authorities. According to Part 5 of Article 4 of the Law on Basic Principles of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity, only by a decision of the court may production, production, implementation of products be suspended. Thus, the suspension of production may obviously be detrimental to the business, and it is vital that such a decision be confirmed in court, since it is a safeguard against the unwarranted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u188	End date? Please, 30 seconds, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u189	This is a precaution, a lawsuit, just against the unjustified use of response measures. And the expulsion from the law of this fuse is not entirely consistent with the stated purpose, for the purpose of the bill was to protect itself from unnecessary interference by garden officials with the activities of the owners. Let us protect them and leave the responsibility of the authorities to appeal to the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u190	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Once again, I would like to stress that the changes to the Basic Principles of Circumstances Act have been transferred to Bill 2418a, which we have voted with you. These changes, this government bill, it refers essentially to technical norms that have not entered into the basic law. So I ask once again, without changing the concept, to support the committee's drafting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u192	Do you insist on voting? Please, Your Honor, if you'd like to vote on the amendment number 4 of the Ptashnik People's Deputies. [[13:19:26]] For 106 The decision is not made. 11th insists Ivchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, the law says that the annual plans for the implementation of the planned measures of State oversight should contain a start date, but it does not say what date the end date is. I'd very much like us to protect entrepreneurs and write the end date so that there's no abuse of these planned tests. Because they're going to start testing and they're going to be walking around asking for papers for a whole year. I would ask that there be both a start date and a finish date, it would be the right thing to do to protect our entrepreneur from improper and burdensome verification periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Yvchenko, thank you for your offer. Just as you and I, most of this room, by voting on Bill 2418a, have shown that they are on the same ground. That bill provides for comprehensive props, including time limits, it is a basic law, this bill is just a technical one that complements it. Everything about props, unified reports, everything that relates to the only state system that reflects these state oversight checks, they're foreseen in the 2418a that we've accepted with you. Hence, your amendment is not considered in connection with the technical exclusion of this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u195	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Guys, let's move on. Everyone, please come into the hall. There'll be a vote in five minutes. 16th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 17th, Captain. Don't insist. 18th, Kiral. Don't insist. 19th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 24th, Yvchenko. 20th, Levenchenko. 20th, Levenchenko. It's written that counts, but I give my word anyway. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u196	Thank you. I'm now addressing myself using the possibility of commenting on my amendment, and I'm now officially writing to the chairman. During the vote for Bill 2418a, it was just the last vote, which had just taken place, that there was a record of mass buttoning by deputies from the Opposition Block. There were about fifteen people in the hall, and 33 votes were cast. Therefore, under the transcript, according to the protocol, under the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I demand that the 2418a vote be re-voted because of the buttonage. And for our audiences and audiences, I'm paying attention to what you're thinking, what's the point of voting here when the Cloud is giving out a fictitious 33 votes, and then they're telling us what great laws it's like for the middle class. Mr. Chairman, please put the vote to the vote under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u197	Thank you. I would like to point out that, according to the Rules, if in the course of the discussion there are buttoning facts, if in the course of the discussion, and every time, I emphasize that every time such information came to me, even without video and photofixion, I put it to the vote every time. Now you're talking about when the next question is coming up. So please make a statement to the Regulatory Committee with the facts. If it were on the move, like every time, I'd put it on the vote, like it was every time. We're already in the next bill. Is that why you insist on 20 amendments to the vote? Don't insist. That's why we're going to the last amendment, the last 24th. Give her a name. I'm moving on to Amendment 24, Yvchenko. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to Yvchenkovi, and all your colleagues please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Mr. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, this is a 20, not a 24. I was going to say that we offered it. Thank you for counting the committee. In the first reading, it was suggested that control authorities should be freed from payment by the court, and this discriminated against control subjects. The state-of-the-art authorities will not pay court fees to apply the administrative and economic sanctions applicable to entrepreneurs. Instead, the owners will have to pay extra money to protect themselves from sanctions. We offered to leave this rule as it was, that is, the supervisory authorities should carry out the same court sanctions and pay the court's fees when the subpoena is brought before the court as well as the entrepreneurs who are going to charge that everyone is in equal conditions. Fatherland offered it, and thank you for the support of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u199	Do you insist on voting? Mr. Yvchenko, are you insisting on the vote? No, it doesn't. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. All the amendments were made. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall to prepare for the decision. This is also a bill recommended by the MPs. But it is also a bill that is recommended and supported by the government. I hope that we can all unite around this bill. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I'd like you all to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. Colleagues! I can set up an alert, but what do you do if there's not enough votes? We need to collect, we need to collect. Please invite the factions to the hall, invite all your colleagues' factions to the hall. I'll wait a minute or two. Let's, there's a requirement -- ratings, let's run the ratings, let's see what's going on. We'll be gathering deputies. So there's an offer of a hall that we can run a rating before the vote. If there aren't enough deputies, we'll wait, we'll gather deputies. Colleagues, so I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I'm conducting a rating vote, rating based on what is supported by bill 2531a, and please take part in the vote. So, colleagues, please take part in the rating vote. Please vote. Please participate in the rating vote. Please. [[13:27:39]] For-189 Please show the result of the signal vote on the board. So we actually have support for almost all the factions. I understand that there are simply no deputies. I'll wait another minute. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall, we can't interrupt the debate, but we can invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite a colleague to the hall through factions so that we can make a decision. Colleagues, I see the MPs are coming along, I'm asking you very much to concentrate. Indeed, I urge the factions to mobilize their deputies now, many in the towers, that is one of the reasons why I fully support the position of the deputies so that we can impose fines for not participating in the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's fined, we shouldn't borrow it in an orphan's eye every time we have such a disgraceful situation. We need those who are not in the hall to be held accountable, and everyone feels this responsibility. I understand the importance of this bill, so I'll wait. But I hope that it's not just me, but everyone, and hopefully the MPs will come along and we'll vote. In addition, I would like to inform you that, according to the agenda, we actually have to move on to one of the basic draft laws that we now have. This is a bill of the Supreme Council of Justice, an important law that continues our judicial reform, a law introduced by the President of Ukraine, and we have, in accordance with the Rules, to deal with it literally with the following. I'm counting on everyone who talks on the air about the importance of judicial reform to concentrate, to enter the hall, because the next one will be the bill, which is impeccable and more relevant today for the reform of the judicial system. So I'm asking my colleagues to come to the hall and take jobs. Guys, I'm going to put the ratings back on the vote. A large part of the deputies have come up, the rating vote is a form envisaged by the Rules, which enables the presiding officer to feel the mobilisation capacity of the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and once again I'm going to put up a rating vote, colleagues. Please take your seats and please take your vote again. Please vote and please support. Please, everyone, please take part in the vote. Please. [[13:32:32]] For 208 I'm asking you to show the list: "Peter Poshenko's Block" -- 79, "The People's Front" -- 57, "The Opposition Block" -- 4, "The Self-Help" -- 22, "The Father's Party" -- 11, Radical Party Lachka 9, "The Rebirth Party" -- 2, "The Will of the People" -- 3. I can see that not all of them have made it. Please invite the deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] We cannot do that because every Conciliation Council calls me to comply with the Rules, the Rules provide for the continuity of consideration of each issue. Every Conciliation, every one. I'm being noted, colleagues. Guys, I'm gonna put it back on. I recommend to the factions that you invite the deputies into the hall, and I recommend you help organize the process in the hall. There's a lot of MPs in the towers, they come in, but they come in slowly. Colleagues, please, please. There are already, yes, people in the hall. Please, we'll wait, colleagues. We wait for the most responsible deputies to enter the hall, to take up jobs. Please invite colleagues. This is supposed to be general solidarity. Yes, please, I see they're coming in. Please come in. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it on the ratings again. I have the impression that there are enough deputies in the decision room. Please. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I once again place a bill on the rating vote to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve legislation in the field of State oversight, control. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and take part in the rating vote. So, colleagues, I know, I'm asking you to confirm by clicking on the green button, it's important. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, please support everyone. Please vote. [[13:36:38]] For the 220. 220, I think we can move on to making a decision. Please invite me. I see we haven't made it. Now we're going to move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please! Vladya! Oh, you're here, you have a card, right? Please take up your jobs, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, there's going to be a vote, there's going to be an adoption of the law. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and take jobs. Mr. Barna, come into the hall, please. Well, you can't leave the hall when there's a vote. Please. Who's gonna call Mr. Oleg from the tower? So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone, please concentrate. I'm just asking you to focus. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of State control (control) (number 2531a). At the suggestion of a second-reading committee, and in general, with technical legal work. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. We vote. [[13:38:42]] For 218. During the vote, three people enter the hall, colleagues. Well, you can't talk about, excuse me, the European Parliament, the Eurooptimism when we can't be in the hall under important laws, colleagues. I warn you, 10, 15, 20 minutes, colleagues. You have no respect for me, no respect for yourself, and no respect for the ideas that we proclaim, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall right now. I'm asking for responsibility at work, colleagues. I encourage and, colleagues, I try to ensure that Parliament has authority in society. I say that in a minute of voting, some MPs rise up and come out just in my own words, but when their drafts, they say why there are no deputies in the room. It's all interconnected, colleagues. Have respect for the citizens who chose us, our parliament, our government, our authors. Colleagues, I'm voting a motion to return to consideration of 2531a, return to consideration. Please all take part in the vote, please support the return to debate 2531a. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:40:25]] For 234 We're back. I put to the vote draft Law 2531a in second reading and in general. Please support me, please vote. [[13:40:48]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, now there's the last law in the block of deregulation, too very short, just a few rights. Please don't leave the hall, colleagues. All right. And please report in a concise manner. Draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (No. 3153). The rapporteur is the head of the Industrial Policy Committee, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, 3153, introduces a temporary moratorium on inspection of the subjects of farming in order to give them time to take a little breath from this dragon control. On the other hand, in order for the state to develop appropriate criteria, risk, oriented control mechanisms based on the new principles of State oversight and control that we have just voted with you in basic Law 2418a. So the honourable colleagues, given how much this bill was, unfortunately, on the shelf, did not come to the Supreme Council Hall, he needs to update the dates. Today, a moratorium is foreseen until December 31st, 16th. In addition to the committee's decision, I propose that we make provision for a ban on duly scheduled checks, as provided for in this bill, by June 31st, 17th. I think it'll be a good time to move on to a new system of transparency, a risk-oriented, accountable public oversight and control society, and then reduce some of the regulatory pressure on small and medium-sized businesses in part of the planned checks. What does this bill do? Once again, it prohibits only for most of the authorities of the state (control) the possibility of scheduled checks for this period, which I have specified, but does not limit in any way the possibility of out-of-plan checks, for which four reasons are foreseen, particularly on the basis of a court decision, as stated by the host subject, in the event of an accident, for a well-founded request by the natural person and for the approval of the competent authority of the State Regulatory Service. In addition, I would like to stress separately that this is an agreement of the DDR, it only takes five days. So in no way do we ban out-of-plan checks, but at the same time, we make them transparent, we understand that there is a State Regulatory Service filter that has to clearly draw the line between artificial attempts at business pressure and those checks that are really necessary to protect the interests of Ukrainian society. That's why this bill improves to a second reading the procedure of acceptance of the tests, removes the alternatives of the organs that provide such consent, that is, the DDR, shortens the terms of agreement to 5 days, and also introduces a series of technical and legal clarifications that we have dealt with with with the Legal Authority. As a result of this and the decision of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, I ask you to support this bill in a second reading and in general as a technical law, and to further extend the bill. the moratorium until 31 June 2017. [[B in m in s a l in]] June 31, 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u201	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. 3rd Amendment, Pinzenic Victor. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 10th, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 15th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 16th, Lensky. Don't insist. 19th, Piserenko. Don't insist. 20th, Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u202	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'm calling the reporter. Maybe he forgot, there's no 31 days in the month of June. Right? So how do you take that moment into account and think of another crazy date? This is the first time. It's different. This bill is a continuation of the vacchanal of wild capitalism that now prevails in this room. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council represents not 90 percent of the interests of Ukrainian society, but it represents 1 percent of the interests of Ukrainian society. And that's the problem, that's the root of the trouble, that's all of our troubles in the country. Because MPs are not representatives of the Ukrainian people. No, it's very good that you're proposing deregulation. Only then again did you forget that we had a moratorium for a year and during that moratorium, which was, yes, total vachanalia, especially. Again, I mention the realm of oblivion when no illegal building could be stopped. And you're writing it back in this law. I suggested in my 20th amendment, actually, these are three amendments that somehow passed into one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u203	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u204	I suggested in my three amendments, which, for some reason, the committee put together in a single amendment, it's not clear why, on what grounds, to add to the test under the Criminal Procedure Code, because you don't have it. So you're going to stop investigating the right ones. And on the basis of the appeals made by the national deputies and deputies of the local councils, which, at least in this way, would be able to present the interests of their electorate. You turned it down. You're proposing a complete continuation of a completely built-in vacchanal in large cities. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u205	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u206	Thank you, Sir Yuri. So it's a clarification. June 30, 17, first. The second is to remove the warnings that are in this room from the People's Front faction as you just sounded. I propose in the text of the bill to replace the words "central executive authorities implementing state policy on matters of state-architectural building control (supervisory), its territorial authorities in the part of the verification of compliance with State building standards, public standards and rules on accessibility for small-scale population groups" with the words "State architectural and building control bodies (supervisory)". I think that this amendment will further consolidate us, and it's going to be a full faction of the People's Front to vote, and we're going to take down the warnings that have been made. Please take this into account when voting in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u207	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yes. Whoever supports Amendment 20 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[13:47:57]] For 135 The decision is not made. 8th Amendment, Alexander Kugel. Please turn on the microphone by 8 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with a request. With all the bills going through very hard, we are already late because the bill was due to end on December 31, 16. So I'm proposing not until June 30, 17, but by December 31, 17, realizing that the economic situation will not improve to relieve the pressure on business. Now all those who say you can't be checked. Please take statistics in Mrs. Lapina, there is no refusal of the Cabinet of Ministers to monitor the conduct of checks. If they want to work and give justifiably what is the MP's appeal or the consumer's appeal, they've always been signed. With this moratorium, we stopped the walkers who were just collecting bribes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u209	Please comment. Mr. Victor, will you comment or put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, we have two choices. I have no objection to what Alexander Volodymyrna said in terms of December 31st, 17th, it might work. So it's the other one. The amendment that I made under the transcript that insists on the People's Front and Mr. Krivoshia, so I think that with these clarifications this bill can be adopted as a law with technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u211	Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Alexander? Don't insist. Let's move on. 23rd, Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 26th, Pinzenic. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 28th, Drozdik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Twenty-seven. Please turn on the Odarchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u212	I'm asking you to put this amendment on confirmation and reject it. The amendment provides for the establishment of a list of bodies where the moratorium is not extended. But this list is so wide that it is not clear what the law is for. In fact, all control authorities can use this amendment and not get any consent to carry out their checks. That is, business will continue to suffer from organs that seem to exist just to destroy those who carry out legal activities to collect bribes. Please reject this amendment, not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u213	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u214	Dear colleague, this amendment cannot be rejected because it is the core of this bill. We can't go in the way you're proposing, because this will jeopardize the functioning of a system of government oversight and control as such. We need to find a balance between protecting small and medium-sized businesses from excessive pressure, but at the same time maintaining a normal system of government oversight and control. So I urge the committee to edit and propose a vote taking into account this amendment, as envisaged by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u215	Colleagues, there's an insistence on confirmation. Come on, we're going to go through three revisions now. Colleagues! Dear colleagues, I am now an important amendment that actually determines the essence of this bill, so I ask everyone to concentrate. The committee supported the amendment. And I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare yourself for a decision, and the committee is calling for this amendment to be supported. So I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 27. And the committee calls on all national MPs to support this amendment, Amendment 27, to vote for it. Whoever supports this position, please vote in favour of the 27th amendment. Please. [[13:52:54]] For 219 Everyone didn't make it. I'll put it back on now, but let the deputies return to their jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. So once again, I'm going to put this motion to a vote, and if there are votes in the room, we're going to vote. So there's a call for the committee to vote on amendment 27, which is actually the basis and essence of that law. I ask, colleagues, to prepare for the vote and support the amendment, to support the committee. Please take your seats and vote, and support Amendment 27. Please, colleagues, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[13:54:01]] For 238. Decision taken, colleagues. And we have literally four amendments left. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] There were signals, colleagues. Stop, there were signals. I'm once again putting Amendment 27 on confirmation. I ask your support, please support Amendment 27. Please support Amendment 27. Please vote, colleagues. Please support Amendment 27. [[13:54:36]] For 234 It's supported, colleagues. I'm not going to bet endlessly, colleagues, I've put it to a vote. I put it on the vote. How many times do I have to vote? Give me the facts, I put it to a vote, Mr. Yuri. Colleagues, there are three adjustments left. 29th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 41st, Solvar. Don't insist. 49th, Nechayev. Don't insist. We finished the discussion. Drizzle. 28th. Drozdik. Wait a minute, Drozdick, 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u216	I'm asking you to support Amendment 28. She's rejected, unfortunately, by the committee, she's going to complete the 27th amendment and she's complementing the words "the Ukrainian State Service of Labour and its territorial authorities." It's a very important amendment, I'm asking you to support it. And it will be an addition to article 6 in a new edition that we have now supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u217	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that the position of the committee was to reject this amendment. So we want to make the moratorium as broad and meaningful as possible. But in the event that the bill does not vote, we will have to make this compromise, since we have to introduce a moratorium on checks for operators by December 31, 2017. So I think that's what we need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u219	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Next 33 revisions, Novak. Turn on the microphone, please. Novak, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u220	Deputies! I ask that my amendment be confirmed because it relates to permission for the authorities to verify the architectural and building controls, it has been voted. But so are the branches. concerning the verification of land legislation and its protection. But what I'm trying to say is that we're being misled in the hall today. This law was first laid down by Abromachius. It was rejected, it did not pass, and the second time it was submitted by a group of deputies. What we do to protect entrepreneurs is not true. Because there are completely left-over fiscal checks, tax authorities that are failing to do business will still be able to carry out checks. With regard to prohibitions, health standards, land laws, urban, environmental laws are prohibited. So you can cut down forests, you can't take out garbage, you can clean up water objects. We have to say that in fact, if we really wanted to have a real law, we would have to cancel the planned checks at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u221	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u222	Repealing scheduled tests as a class because it's leftovers from the Soviet economy. Why check the business plan if he does, he doesn't have any violations. I therefore propose not to vote in favour of this law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u223	Do you insist on voting for your amendment? Yes, please, who supports Amendment 33 of the Novak People's Deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:58:25]] For-187 The decision is not taken. And the final issue is the 37th People's Deputy Levchenk. Yeah, 37th, right? Yes, after that, let's move on to the vote of the law. One minute, Lewchenko, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. We're about to make a decision. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u224	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the hypocrisy that's taking place in the hall. Literally an hour ago, I was told that it's impossible to get the building industry out of this general law of this good, and it's bad, and it's like builders are middle class. And they've already seen that there are no votes -- they're already involved in this law, everything's fine, everything's fine. But they're being pulled out half the time, they're being pulled out only for government building agencies, and they're not being drawn for designers, they're not being drawn for the organs in good shape, either. So my amendment is exactly what would happen if any of the tests that apply to urban activity, to any urban activity, would not be subject to this moratorium. So please support this amendment first. And secondly, Mr. Chairman, I am now addressing you, Mr. Chairman, please, I am formally addressing you with an amendment to the extension of the moratorium until 31 December 2017, yes, it is not in the table, it was not discussed on the committee. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u225	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u226	Until we vote on such an amendment separately from the body of the law, we have no right to introduce it into the body of the law. So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote of 37th and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u227	Colleagues, so I'm voting for Amendment 37 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[14:00:28]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, discussion over. One minute, the head of the committee, he'll explain, give answers to all the warnings. Then we move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall. We'll have a decision in a minute. I continue for 15 minutes with the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One minute, Galasjuk. Please come into the hall, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u228	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We are now obliged to take this important step with you, and to introduce a moratorium on the checks of entrepreneurs by December 31, 2017. In order to do so, I offer a compromise decision that I am sure will have to unite the hall. In addition to the committee's decision, three things are offered to the table that is given to you. First. The moratorium period is until 31 December 2017. The other one. The amendment made by Mr. Drozdick is part of the State Labour Service and its local authorities to take into account. This is also what MPs from Peter Dustenk's Block insist on. It'll let us get the votes. And the third. That's what the People's Front suggested, Mr. Krivoshia: clarifying the language, replacing what I read under the transcript, with the words "State Architectural Controls (supervisory)." So it's not just a part of control of pandas and other devices for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m0.u229	Thank you, colleagues. Do you need 30 seconds? It's fine, isn't it? Colleagues, the chairman of the committee explained. And I'm going to put to the vote with the amendments that the head of the Halasyuk committee announced under the transcript. I'm asking you to get ready. As far as I can tell, all the amendments that were made were announced under the transcript. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (No. 3153), as amended by a transcript of the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, second reading and generally, with technical and legal work. Please vote. Please support 3153 as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[14:03:10]] For 207 207 for. I'll put it back once. If there are no votes to return, the bill will be rejected. Colleagues, I'm asking who didn't come into the hall to come in. I'll put it on the way back. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. Colleagues, please prepare. I propose to go back to voting for bill 3153. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to its consideration, please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, I'm voting. 3153. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:04:01]] For 228 Please don't leave the hall. Once again, I put to the vote a total of 3,153 with the rights that Halasyuk gave. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please don't break up. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[14:04:27]] For 224 Two votes! Two votes, colleagues. Colleagues, when I have two votes, I'll do it again. Two votes is the limit. I see we haven't made it. Two men gave me a signal that they didn't make it. Then please take your seats, colleagues. Whoever didn't make it, I'll bet 3153 again. On the way back to 3153. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote return. Two votes, please. Please vote. Please support the return. [[14:05:09]] For 224 No votes, colleague. [[B in m in s a l in]] Raise your hand if you can't. I see. Who didn't make it? Are there people in the hall who haven't made it? Umil? And who else? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who hasn't got it yet? Guys, I'll put it back on. Three hands that say they didn't make it. We're short two votes. It's the one where I put it. Please, colleagues, don't come out of the hall, but go into the hall. I'll do it again, but this will be the last time, colleagues. This will be the last time. I'm asking you to focus, please come into the hall. Who's behind it. No, you can't say a word, you can vote and you can invite a colleague into the hall. I'm once again proposing to return to 3153. Who supports this proposal, who supports this proposal. I can see that. We're waiting for Jaroslav. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote, stand by. [[2:06:32]] For 235 I put to the vote 3,153 in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please vote in second reading and in total 3153. Please vote with the amendments that the head of the Halasyuk committee has made to the transcript. [[2:07:04]] For 235 The law is passed. Colleagues, may I have your attention? We were about to consider a law that was impeccable. Do not separate, colleagues, perhaps we will now vote for its inclusion in the agenda – the Council of Justice. No, it's too late, breakup. All right, colleagues. I ask you very much after lunch more disciplinedly to come to the hall so that we do not have the disgrace we had before lunch. The morning session of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4 p.m., everyone please come to the hall.
