ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. 4:00 p.m., time to continue our work. Please. Are you ready for your registration, colleagues? Everyone in the hall? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please enable registration. [[16:03:10]] There are 332 national deputies, respected colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing to consider issues that have been raised as urgent. Next draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 02 June 2016 on the adoption as a whole of the bill 2506a. It has a special procedure and does not require a vote in favour. And I invite you to the report of National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u2	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, first of all, I'd like to comment on that farce that just happened. We don't have 332 deputies on the Supreme Council right now. Well, maybe at best, about half a hundred does. Accordingly, the Supreme Council is not at all authorized to deal with any matter at this time. And by the way, I've submitted a bill for consideration, which unfortunately is not put to a vote, that in order to get rid of this stupid electronic registration at all, when, in fact, there are no deputies, but show that they are and that the quorum is counted by written registration, not by electronic registration. Because now, for example, most of it. Not most, but about 50-60 went to the charter for football, yeah, they're talking, and their cards are here. And it's a shame that at a time when these deputies instead of working, went to football, this question is being considered, because it's a very important question. This is not just a matter of breaking the Rules, but it is a matter of the fact that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council passed two related laws, 2506a and 2507a, concerning private enforcement, several weeks ago. Well, the Supreme Council mostly works, unfortunately, not by 90 percent of the Ukrainian people, but by 1-2 percent of people with Ukrainian passports. That is, the Supreme Council is completely abusing most of the Ukrainian people, but it creates wonderful mechanisms such as private contractors to keep the authorities, that is, the rich, beating up the last penny of the ordinary Ukrainian. And that's the law, in particular, 2506a. This is the first law on private contractors. This law does not specify specific requirements for private performers, the requirements on how they work, how their office should be formed, how they should store the values they take from people, how they should receive their education, their license. There is nothing in this law, but it is prescribed. And the next law. Mr. Andrey, please give earlier three and a half, at least three and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u3	Please give me another minute, Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u4	Yes. But this law is also created by a mechanism, and the next law of 2507a specifically prescribes the abuses that private contractors will make over ordinary Ukrainians. And what's sad is that this law was so terrible, it was adopted in violation of the Rules because we had a full procedure that took place in April, a complete procedure for considering the second reading. And in the second reading, after they've gone through every correction. And now, Mr. Andrey, I quote you from the transcript, and I quote you, "Colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, to vote. I put to the vote the draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Bodies (2506a) on second reading and in general. Please vote. "To" is 214. I mean, the decision wasn't made, there was no turning back. It's been a few weeks, and instead of being in the law that the law has been rejected, it's been put back in place and pushed. I mean, it's not just, you know, it's blasphemy that these terrible laws push for breaking the Rules. So I demand to cancel it, although unfortunately I understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I understand your skepticism about the fact that the electronic board explains the number of MPs that don't match the amount that's in the room, that's really something that doesn't make sense. And just like many times on Friday, we face the fact that Parliament is incapable of making decisions. Therefore, one of my first decisions in office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was the initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure. There we have the ability to remove these norms, which simply discredit the Ukrainian Parliament and, in particular, there we would be able to say that only written registration can matter. But in order for us to be able to reform Parliament, society, we must at least include it in the agenda of the session and vote. And I'm very surprised when national MPs who don't vote for the reform of parliament today tell us why I'm announcing the result of an electronic vote. This is a direct rule of the current Rules. Let's change the Ukrainian Rules, let's modernise the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's make it more efficient and transparent, and this will be the right way. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work to Pinzenic Paul Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u6	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules reviewed the draft regulation (registration number 2506a-P), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Levchenk, Illenk, Gołko, Osuhovski, Marchenk. Their written application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 2 for the removal of the requirements of the Rules when deciding on the draft law (registration number 2506a). The committee noted that according to the material and transcripts of the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on April 21, the chairman put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft law (registration number 2506a). Such a proposal was not supported by the people's deputies, the "yes" voted only 214 people's deputies, and then twice was placed on the rating signal, i.e. the vote, to predict the results of the vote for the bill. "For" was voted by 219 people's deputies and 178 people's deputies. At this plenary session, during an article-by-article review of the bill and the voting on proposals and amendments, National MP Lewchenko Yuri addressed the chairman in substance of the bill, namely the voting on the amendments tabled in the bill, that truth had not applied to the chairman for violation of the Rules during the consideration of the matter. Next. At the morning plenary on June 2, 2016, the chairman proposed to support Bill 2506a as a second reading and as a whole. A total of 239 national deputies voted in favour of this decision. In deciding on the bill, the chairman’s statement by the National Deputies on the violation of the Rules did not come to the fore. According to article 48, part 8, of the Rules, the Committee reached a conclusion and invited the Supreme Council to determine the draft decree by a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Paul. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a record: two for, two against. Please sign up. Thank you. And I give my word to Ruslan Mikhailovich Sidorovich from the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! When we talk about the need to reform basic institutions in the state, we should not forget that aspects such as the enforcement of a court decision, ensuring it is effective is one of the key. Regrettably, Ukraine is now among the sad leaders for failing to make judgments. Most of the Ukrainians' appeal to the European Court of Human Rights refers to the fact that it is not possible to enforce a court decision. This reform is not the invention of the Ukrainian Parliament, it is not the invention of the Council for judicial reform. The countries of the former socialist camp, such as Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Bulgaria, Georgia, and the United Kingdom, were on their way. The Institute of Private Executives also exists and works effectively in countries such as France, Sweden, the United States, and a number of others. Therefore, the adoption of the bill certainly opens up the possibility of ensuring one of the most important aspects is ensuring the right of access to a fair trial. Because the European Court of Human Rights, in its decision, pointed out that the right to access a fair trial was illusory when the State was unable to ensure the enforcement of a court decision. The repeal of the bill would call into question one of the most important reforms and one of the highest quality, and the most thoughtful. Which, in principle, were prepared jointly, I remind you, an expert environment, international experts, representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Council on Judicial Reform and the People's Deputies. So I ask you to reject the proposal to repeal this bill and allow us to start one of the most important reforms in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! The word is given to Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u10	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues! Today's ruling is that you know, as a result of the fact that a recent decree on the need to liberate the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko, has recently been registered. So let me tell you that this bill, which is now proposed by this decree by our parliamentary colleagues to cancel, is one of the elements of the reform that was carried out by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, and specifically Minister Paul Petrenko. We must long ago ensure that our citizens have the right to enforce judicial decisions. We all know that it is very difficult to make a decision now, and it is very difficult to make a court decision. It is by this law that we create the opportunity for all individuals to address either a public executioner or a private executive, and thus we extend the possibilities of our citizens, Ukrainian citizens, who have the right to a decent life and to European standards of life, and in fact to have the right to a fair trial and the right to a fair execution of a judicial decision, which unfortunately there is not. And this is part of the systematic reform of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, honourable colleagues, trying to overthrow this law now by making such a decree is a disgraceful phenomenon for our Parliament. We should by no means support this decision. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask not all to vote for it and to allow the leader of Parliament to sign this law and send the President to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u12	Thank you. I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people and the television viewers who are currently watching the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: 159 people's deputies of Ukraine are in the Hall at this time. This is a disgrace to Parliament, a disgrace to the Ukrainian people, a disgrace to an organ that is the highest legislative authority in Ukraine. I wish I could. Now we are discussing the issues that the Ukrainian National Deputies have raised regarding violations of the Rules. To be honest, we must acknowledge that the Supreme Council of Ukraine daily violates Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'll remind everyone that the Rules have the status of law. In fact, every day, as Ukrainian national deputies, we break an oath, one part of which says that "I undertake to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." I'm even going to give an example of today's agenda, and I'm going to ask the chairman, "Why don't we follow this order of days?" What law should we now have in mind? And that's what's important. You see, there's part of the Ukrainian National Deputies, for whom football has become more important than the urgent need for disabled workers who are now starving in the Ministry of Social Policy. In addition, we today have an agreement with the government of the Law of Ukraine 4015, which solves this problem, which enables us to rebuild the indexation of social benefits, to modernize them, to return to people on average every disabled person 500 dollars a month. Nevertheless, we have not even brought it into the order of the day! Anyway, with what eyes can we say that we represent the people of Ukraine here when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u13	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues! And I'm paying attention to you, these are people who have huge health losses. God forbid, any of them will be harmed; it will be upon your conscience, on the conscience of those who have not brought this law into the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u15	Thank you. Mr. Michael, as far as I'm concerned, I'll give you your permission. We followed the schedule of the day session today, and we did everything we could. And I put your bill twice to the vote by responding to your morning request. Sadly, he did not get the required number of votes. I can't help it. Now, the issues that we are considering, according to the Rules after the Committee's decision, they are seen as urgent for consideration. They don't need a decision to put the day session in order, they treat it as an emergency. So we went in the order of the day session, and these decisions we include as soon as they were put to the presidency. And that's why there's no violation of that. The next speaker, Andrew Lozov, conveys the word to Oleg Valeriovich Láška. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Regrettably, all the changes that the Panamanian Patriots have been making in today’s parliament have been aimed at restricting people’s rights to judicial protection. An increase in the court's duty, when a person can't actually go to court because he doesn't have the money to pay his dues. The introduction of a private performer’s institute when they come and take the children out of their apartment and throw them out of their apartment for not paying for utilities. In absentia, when any of the CHEKs can go to court and the resident of the apartment won't even know that he's owed an apartment. Today, the Ministry of Regional Development has admitted that after the increase, after the government's decision to increase tariffs, they expect 30 percent of the increase in non-payments. Today, $14 billion in municipal payments is owed. That means there's going to be a collapse in the payout and the collapse of the housing and utility system. The Radical Party faction requires Parliament to review our draft regulation on the price of gas for citizens without delay. Yesterday's meeting of the Energy Committee was convened, a six-year decision registered, I demand that the head of Parliament bring it to the Parliament Hall, consider and vote. I'm also informing the citizens. Yesterday, we filed an administrative appeal for the recognition of an illegal decision by the NCREKP, which raised the heating tariffs for Ukrainian citizens twice or three July. We're blocking the parliamentary rostrum, demanding to investigate offshore corruption, we're blocking the parliamentary rostrum, and we're demanding that people pay back their gas bills and stop robbing people. 100,000 signatures we brought to Parliament today to force you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u17	Please, Sergey Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's really no point in discussing the contents of Bill 2506, it might be nice or bad, the question is not. The question is that when the bill was adopted, the Rules were brutally violated, the amendments were not discussed and the amendments were voted on, and that is all that matters now. We are told about the reform of Parliament, but daily the Rules, the rules in force of the Supreme Council, are being violated. Parliament reform will take place when decisions are made in this Parliament, not outside. The reform of Parliament will take place when each MP can get the floor when all the amendments are discussed in the second reading. Parliament reform will then take place. Everything else is propaganda and manipulation. Even now, there is propaganda and manipulation. There are no 226 national deputies in the hall. And that's why the "Paternity" faction requires an emergency vote after consideration of the matter. And if there are no 226 votes, close the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u19	Thank you. I will definitely vote after those decisions. Dear colleagues, I want you to answer my questions. Today we accepted the question of quotas when every third Ukrainian song will be on the radio. Today, we accepted a petition to the patriarch in connection with the Mass Church of Ukraine, requesting special operations. What external influence has affected us? I'll tell you what: the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian history, that's the influence that's being made on us from outside the parliament. We accept the issue of great importance, the question of the creation of Ukrainian. And only the Ukrainian people are the organ that affects us. Colleagues, yes, we have today adopted those two laws as a basis and as a whole. Some may say that this is a violation of the Rules. And I'm going to tell you that we've joined in creating historical events today. And let us be proud of it, and let us not discredit these questions that were voted upon in that room today. It's closing, Yuri Lewchenko. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u20	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I'm addressing the chairman and all the authorities. Do not cover yourself with these laws, the quota law. By hiding it, you try to, for example, step away from the responsibility for terrible other laws. What's more, the quota law is a big problem. In fact, it's not going to lead to anything, because the responsibility for breaking the law, you know what it is? It's a fine of 5 percent of the license. It's a very big responsibility! They will be very firm in their adherence to this law! So do not mislead people. And what I just heard is, you know, the first time that the CEO of the ever-regulatory committee is telling the truth that I wasn't talking to the chairman. I spoke to the presiding officer, five times I approached the presiding officer not to violate the Rules, well, that's why he's sitting there, it's an eternally fulfilling duty instead of assigning his head. As for the so-called reform. Mr. Chairman! In your reform, I have one problem with why I don't vote for it, and I won't vote in that way, because you're proposing to deprive the national MPs of the right to legislative initiative. You're proposing to put into this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u22	You propose to insert in this reform a board of committees a body that will decide who can register, who can't. Take this proposal out of the way, and I'll vote for your reform right away. But my bill, which would take away an electronic registration, which has been in the Supreme Council for several months now, is not even being discussed. This is about reform. And last of all, essentially. When someone talks about Poland, France, Germany, please don't tell me how the laws are prescribed because I read them, they're normally prescribed. And what you're now suggesting is that the aunts be legalized, and people have the last penny to kick. And don't talk about Poland, France, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. I very much ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ratings. Maybe that's how we can beat it right now. Dear colleagues! I am voting on a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 June 2016 on the adoption as a whole of Bill No.2506a, 06-P, 2506-P. Whoever supports this decision please make up your mind, please vote. Please vote. 2506a-P. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:25:49]] For-56 The decision is not made. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, there is another identical decision, identical. After that, I'll make Vlesenko's offer. So let's go to the consideration, the final decision on rejection, the draft decision on repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of June 02, 2016 on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, Bill No.2507a. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u24	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd still go to the chairman and I urge the chairman before voting to put a signal vote to see if there's actually an MP in the room, not "for" or "against" but in fact that there is a deputy. Because I, as Ukrainian national deputy, am saying that there is no Supreme Council quorum now and that this is fiction, we have no right to look at all of this, because whoever's running, who's playing football, who's on the Maldives, who's going to decide who's in the President's Administration, who's in Cabmini's business. So don't do that kind of propaganda, actually. I urge you not only to act by the letter of the law, but also by the spirit of the law and to abide by all the human logic in general, which is in normal people, but not in bandits, most of whom are sitting in the Supreme Council, in fact. So that's what this is about. And now essentially the bill. Well, it's a sequel to this terrible bill, which was the first in the variant, 2506a. 2507a actually stops it, legalizes these "aunts." There was talk of Poland, Germany, France, I don't know if their laws were all those telling, reading, reading those laws. In these laws there is a very detailed responsibility prescribed, control over private executives. There is control over private executives in these countries, not to mention that the courts there are much better than ours, to say the least. Here. What do we have to offer? We're proposing to legalize "cooties" in the form of private artists who are going to walk and kick people's last penny. Which is why in this law, which I now demand to cancel for violation of the Rules of Procedure. For example, a private performer can go to anyone's house and say, this is your TV, this TV that belongs to your neighbor. Prove it's your TV, not your debtor. And if a person doesn't have a check saved, evidence that it's his TV, that he bought it instead of his neighbor buying it, then a private contractor has the right to take the TV. These are the laws you're proposing right now. Moreover, after he has taken this television, before the court has ruled, this law also stipulates that he himself decides what to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u25	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u26	It is not for the court to decide what to do with this property, but it is for this private executive to decide what to do with it, how to store it, and what to do with it, whether to alienate it, whether it is to be passed on to someone. That's what you prescribe in the law. Moreover, it is stipulated in the law that the expenses incurred by the private contractor will be borne by the debtor, and you have also prescribed in this law. So private firms will still have twice as much money on debtors. So that's what you're proposing, so-called European reforms. That you're abusing the Ukrainian people, you're taking the last penny. People will get you out of here easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u27	The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council, Phinehas Phinehas, Phinehas, Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the draft decree of 2507a-P, under the authority of the People's Deputy Levchenk. We've set it up. Bill 2507a of April 21 was considered on the second reading procedure twice in the morning and evening plenary. During the morning session, in the course of the rating vote, he won 218 votes, and during the article-based review and vote on the proposals and amendments, the People's Chamber of the People's Republic of Lewchenko addressed the Chairman in substance of the bill on the voting of the amendments that had been tabled, but he did not apply for a violation of the rules. At the evening plenary meeting, the chairman held a reiteration vote on the return to the draft. However, this decision did not receive the necessary support of the people's deputies, it voted in favour of 178. At the plenary session on June 2, 2016, there was a vote on the adoption of the draft legislation in the second reading, a total of 253 people's deputies voted in favour. During the consideration of the bill, the chairman’s application for a violation of the regulations of the national deputies and, in particular, of the Levchenka People’s Deputies no longer came. And according to part of article 48 of the eighth article, the Committee approved the relevant conclusion and invites the Supreme Council to decide on the draft decision by the National MP Yuri Lehchenk by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u30	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! I am surprised by the presentations made by our individual colleagues about the absence of any control over the activities of private performers. So just on the surface, I'm going to count the inadequacy of what was said right now because it's written in the law. Only at this stage are three bodies that provide disciplinary control over the activities of private contractors. The first is the Ministry of Justice. The second is a self-regulation organization called the Association of Private Executives. And the third organ is a disciplinary commission formed by four representatives from the Ministry of Justice, four representatives from the Association of Private Executives and one representative from the Council of Judges of Ukraine. Similarly, other comments made to this bill are totally meaningless. All of this testifies to one thing: not wanting to reform, not leaving the corruptogenic system that is now in place and that is for our citizens. And even a minister and a deputy. The minister, in reporting on these bills, was forced to say that the state of corruption that currently exists in the State Executive Service cannot be eradicated in any other way than to implement the proposed reform. In addition, all the positive conclusions and also the international experts, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Union's project to support justice reforms in Ukraine, show that the adoption of the bill is very important. For example, countries like the Baltica and Bulgaria had reform data 10-15 years ago, Poland 20 years ago -- this is the time that Ukraine was already late. That is why we either reform and move on, or continue to lean on the ground, groans that corruption is eating up our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u32	Thank you so much for explaining and for your position. And here's to Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u33	Please give the floor to the National MP, Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Only then will a person and a citizen feel protected in the country and in the state, if not only a fair trial but when these judicial decisions are properly enforced. For 20 years, the existence of the Ukrainian independent state has proved to us that we did not have a fair trial and not just because there is a lot of corruption and this system has rotted down the mountain or down the mountain, but also because a lot of court decisions are still pending today. A large number of court decisions are made only on paper. I want to give an example of just one, but the brightest of all. Everyone remembers when war children were forced to seek judicial protection during Yanukovich and their blood money through the courts. They have lost a lot of health, and in many people these decisions have remained on paper, and these papers remain behind the glass on the servants today. How many heart attacks, how many strokes, how many abuses. Respectful friends will surely be the only effective judicial system when decisions are made. We cannot vote in favour of this ruling because it will stop our efforts and reforms to enforce judicial decisions, and we will not feel protected. And as for the large number of speculations that the author of the bill has just made, this ruling has been heard. Friends, if you want your decisions to get the required number of votes, they have to be quality, they have to be constructive and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u35	Please, 30 seconds to complete or a minute, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u36	And you can't have your failures, and you can't have your weak drafts covered up because we're supposed to have a bad football and a bad game and a total game. Friends, I realize that there is a lot of parental victory, only defeat always remains an orphan. When our congregation triumphs today, you will all be proud of your intense fear for Ukrainian football, and if, God forbid, it will be so on your conscience, there will be a possible defeat on your conscience. Shame on the patriots! Glory to Ukraine! The glory of our national football team will be supported by our applause!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u37	Thank you. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u38	Please pass the word to Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u39	Andrew Volodymyrovich! I want to tell you that you didn't accidentally make the decisions you'd like to see fail today. You know how many times we pay attention to such contempt for the hall, such contempt for the deputies. I support Lewchenk, you know why, because people stood here for a week asking us not to accept these bills. Because these laws on implementing private implementation have legitimized collectors. And I now know that all the people who call me, who are moving out of the apartment, are taking the last property I'm going to send to Self-Help and the ruling coalition. I want to thank you for adopting the bill, you're telling me about a foreign survey, so I can tell you there's no property without insurance and there's people insured.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u40	Please turn on one minute. Please turn on one minute to continue Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u41	There are people who are insured from such actions. I personally applied to government executives, and for four years they did not execute a court decision that took three years. To listen to me as an intern to a government official, that the minister knows that his department is corrupt and there's nothing he can do? I don't believe that. If the minister knows, he must control every decision of the court and how it is implemented. We're with you from our taxes, except for the insolvents who work in the State Executive Service, and now we'll pay private for our money. Thank you, Mr. Lewchenko, for the principled position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u42	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to everyone sitting in this room. There are 159 people here now. Aren't you ashamed to participate in this circus when it's 330? How can we ask you? I don't want people to do that. demanding laws, breaking them at once? You have to stop this meeting. You know perfectly well that there are no people in the room. And the second. Today, many have gone to defend Ukraine in France. Ukraine must be protected in this Hall, along with those political forces that require a review of tariffs. This is what kills the country today, not every heresy you understand. Every honest person must join those who want a tariff commission. The guys who are standing there blocking the rostrum, I have different political views with you, different views, but you're good, I'm joining you. Tariffs are the main thing that kills the country. I repeat, I'm addressing the press: please take a look at the hall. 159 people. It's the country's deception!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u44	Please let me finish. Oh, no. Okay. As promised, colleagues, after this vote, I will place a rating. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please have a word. It's... it's... Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I want to draw the attention of our colleagues who today have sufficiently argued against this law and, in principle, the Institute of Non-State Executives. And, indeed, the dangers and risks that we've talked about exist. But, at the same time, fellow believers, you know that the existing system in force today in Ukraine is not, in a mild sense, effective, and more corrupt. It needs to be reformed, and the instrument proposed by the authors has the right to life. And so we suggested that we introduce it in the past and in the past, where I was working on the subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one second. There's a lot of hands in the room. I'll give everyone a chance to speak. Just a minute. In a minute, and we'll go, giving to everyone. Victor Pinzenik, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u47	Dear National Deputies! I ask you two questions: the substance of the law and the procedure for its adoption. Now we're not discussing the essence of the law. The regulation deals with the adoption procedure, which is governed by the Ukrainian Rules Act. And any law must be enacted in a legal way. Do not be surprised, fellow believers, that, to put it mildly, people do not like Parliament. Because a parliament that adopts laws violates the law itself. I want to draw attention to the work of the regulatory committee. What did we hear in the report? The Regulatory Committee should answer whether or not the procedure has been violated. How many votes were given for one law or another we can read on the site. And the last. This is not the first time that I have heard from the regulatory committee that no one has filed an application for a violation of the Rules, I myself have made several statements, the regulatory committee has said that there are no violations. I really didn't want us to get to the point that every fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u48	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u49	I don't want every single fact that we're filing on the phone and putting it on Facebook. And the committee I'm asking, there are pictures, you have the opportunity to see every time, whether the MP is filing an application for a violation of procedure. Dear colleagues, I'd like to get your attention again. We are not arguing on the substance of the law, we are arguing exclusively on the adoption procedure, because there will be no procedures – there will never be any legality in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u50	Thank you. Fuck us. From different ends of the hall. Nemchenka, please, one minute. German.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u51	I'm not Germany, I'm Germany, opposition block. Mr. Andrey, first of all, what I wanted to say. That the law on civil enforcement of judicial decisions read the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, and eight years later, decisions of the courts are being made on behalf of Ukraine. Eight years or ten! The state can't do it, and we want people to run a decent business there. What are we doing? Let's go if we're ready to do this, then make a decision, but we're just not ready for today. And whoever initiated this law, give me an analysis, give me some naphtha if you have it. She's gone. And so don't throw people into another trap, it's a shame to decide today on the matter of translating the power of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u52	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u53	It is a disgrace to translate the powers and duties of a country, a state, into private structures. Don't we get it? Thank you, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u54	Thank you. And if you'll excuse me for calling my name Germano, please. Dear colleagues, Solovay, I will say in advance: Solovay, Dombrowski, Rosenblatt and the People's Front. Please, Solovay, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u55	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. You know, let me disagree with the previous speaker, who's saying that the state has to give more and more functions. To my profound belief, the Ukrainian State has a chance to develop only if the authorities reduce the amount of services it provides today and will regulate all processes that are taking place in the state. But, dear colleagues, I also want to address each and every one of us on the systematization of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. There can be no order in the state if there is no order in the consideration of bills in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And therefore, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich, I address you first. We have two plenary weeks left. I propose that we, the people's deputies, concentrate on reviewing the changes to the regulation in these last two weeks to correct the situation that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u56	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u57	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I address you again, I will repeat what I have said. I ask you in the last two weeks, Andry Volodymyrovich, to focus in the last two weeks on addressing the issue of the work of the Rules in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And the suggestions you made, I think they're good enough. However, by the way, there's one question that's not solved, it's not voting by the people's deputies for the bill. So I'm going to point out: let's start using financial resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u58	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u59	Let's start using financial influences by reducing wages for not voting on people's deputies for a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u60	Thank you. Dombrowski, please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we don't need to embarrass and accuse the national deputies of those who are in this room right now, and who are trying to find some kind of construct in these circumstances in order to set up the work of the Supreme Council. Because this morning we were optimistic that we were going to have an agrarian day, a package of agrarian laws, it's not there. Yesterday we were optimistic that there would be an energy day or a package of energy-important laws, it's not there. And that's because national deputies just don't go to work. So let us criticize, embarrass and accuse those who are not present in the hall and in this way respond to what is happening in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u62	Rosenblatt, please. Then Anointed or Alekseus? Let's figure it out. Rosenblatt, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I understand the passions of this bill today. But I want to go back to history when at the end of the 14th year, we were on budget for the 15th year. And the executive services came to us, the people who make the decisions of the courts. On the question of the need for 500 million dollars in the budget, we asked, "How much did you raise in a year?" The answer was "400 million." So 100 million dollars a year is still in the executive service. If we make private bodies today that do not need budget assistance, this decision was correct. And I want to say one last thing. There's a private performer's institute all over the world. They are working in a really more orderly and responsible manner today. Therefore, Ukraine’s budget needs to be filled, not yet to have the expense of maintaining such services as our executive service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u64	Thank you very much. Now it's Head. Then, boys, you. Head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u65	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Honourable MPs, by your logic, criticizing that you are writing down corruption, that we need private contractors because there is corruption, so your logic is to eliminate all public authorities, means a private court to organize, a private police, a private army, and that the Prime Minister of private and government will be our private government. You're disposing of the state as an institution in the country. First. This time. Secondly, we have to say that this law is real, some kind of purpose is to serve private aunts who are going to be doing away with people's apartments. There are complaints today. For example, in Lutsk, people want to rent apartments for utilities. First, you raise the price of gas, you set an unrealistic price, you raise the tariffs, and then you want to take people's last place. Is that why you need such laws? Shame. So I call upon all the MPs who are decent to support this decision, it should not take effect because the adoption of such laws is a crime against the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u66	Thank you. From the People's Front of the Anointed. Yeah? Not Alexiev. Please, Andrew Amazanov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u67	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. You know, colleagues, the discussion of this ruling seems very funny, it's almost a nice opera in which someone tells us that he's 8, 10, 20 years old and has no court decision. Yes, Your Honor, and why are we now trying to make a technical decision to repeal a law that is actually changing the order of the execution of court decisions that simplifies these orders? And no one tells me now that private artists are collectors, no one else, it's pure manipulation, it's nothing in the law. There is a rigid system for making decisions about who will do something else. In no way are the rights of citizens violated by this law. So, honourable colleagues, honourable national MPs, I understand that there is indeed a right in the MP to make such a technical decision, but we all understand that in this case the author of this regulation is not interested in absolutely violating the regulation or not violating it. What's interesting is that he doesn't support the essence of this law, which he's trying to repeal and thus not give the head of the Supreme Council and the President the right to put this law into effect. So please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u68	Thank you very much. Eutushka. No, right? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u69	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, we're talking a lot about the Rules, about his violation. So what I'm saying is that, by all means, the very procedure of introduction and compliance is very important, as is the content of the law itself. So everything depends on the human factor. It is up to you, as presiding officer, to be sure that we are the people's deputies of the Rules. It is also up to the directors of the committees to carry out their duties and the Rules. I was literally at a meeting yesterday of the Regulatory Committee, which is headed by a representative of the People's Front, there was a clear picture of how our request is levelled, because I received a commission from Fatherland leader Timoshenko to come and tell you why the committee is not voting and is not considering a decision that can tell people what our tariffs are coming from. And people are very interested in what ingredient is buried in tariffs. And unfortunately, the committee didn't even bring this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u70	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u71	That's not how the committee brought it in right away. I want to thank the people's deputies, there are seven of the three people's deputies who have supported it, but I know exactly what everyone here understands is that people are now demanding the release of a temporary investigation commission that has identified what makes up these shameful corruption components of the tariff. So once again, I urge the regulatory committee to support this procedure and a draft regulation that will enable people to see what tariffs are made of.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, now two closing speeches by Dudenkov and Chumak. Then I'll put a rating vote on who's in the room. So I ask you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, this is where the representative of the People's Front said it would be an honest Thursday. Indeed, I would like to say that half of the people's deputies are not in the room. We are now talking about protecting the interests of citizens, but unfortunately, protecting someone. Let's be honest with each other. That we will not take a single decree or a single bill today, we will limit ourselves to an empty speech. Regrettably, today's talk is that we are imitating legislative activities. I don't even want to talk about the bill because it's pointless. Everyone would be ploughing over certain issues relating to or not related to the bill. But we are now doing imitation without concrete results. And I would like to convey the format of our work to the citizens who are listening to us so that they may not really waste their time because no decisions will be taken today. And to Andrei Vladimirovich, I'd like to ask you to close the meetings, because there are really no deputies in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u74	As promised, after this ruling, I will put to the vote. Please, Victor Chumak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u75	Victor Chumak, 214th District, Kiev, non-factional. Dear colleagues, we are considering today or we are currently considering not the law in fact, we are considering the procedure for its adoption, violation, more faithfully, the procedure for its adoption. This little book is in my hands, you see, everything sees this little book? I'm showing her to the cameras. This booklet is called the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the internal constitution of this body. It doesn't make any sense if you can re-vote the laws 28 times, it doesn't make any sense if you can pass the laws from one committee to another to define, there, the Main Committee, or vote for that law or not. It makes no sense if you can put to the vote laws that only yesterday were registered, even though they are behind this book before the second week they have no right to be put to the vote. You know, we can talk about revolutionary or political relevance as much as we can, but the wise people said that democracy was not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u76	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u77	Democracy is not a good law, democracy is a procedure for its observance, acceptance and implementation. Until we learn to make sense of this activity, there will be no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the vote on this bill. I beg your pardon, yes. I am. Well, you're not supposed to, Mr. Yuri, but I'll give you one more minute. An unforeseeable closing word in this procedure, Mr. Yuri! Mr. Yuri, there is a brief procedure in which there is no final word. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for jobs and I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 June 2016 on second reading adoption and, as a whole, on the law of the bill of 2507a is the draft regulation of 2507a-P. So whoever supports the 2507a-P draft, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[16:57:03]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues! As I promised, at the request of many factions, I will now place a rating vote. And if there are no votes, we won't be able to keep working. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Who's in the towers, please? Ready? Dear colleagues, I ask you to participate in the rating vote to reveal the potential of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Rating vote, we vote. [[16:58:08]] For 176 176 is "for", 19 is "against", 18 is "retained". So I'm going to ask you to put these numbers on the board. Let me show you through the factions. So there are 200 deputies in the hall. 200 deputies -- that's not enough to make a decision. More than 200: 207 deputies are in the hall, and this is not enough to make a decision and that is why. 212. 212, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Count it, 210. Yeah? Therefore, by exercising my right to preside over a meeting, because there are not enough votes to make a decision, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Colleagues, today was a historic day, and we made many historic decisions, and I welcome everyone. And we also want to make everyone feel sorry for our congregation today, and they need our support today. Ukraine, win! Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're meeting in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. See you tomorrow. Good-bye!
