ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues, can we register? Dear colleagues, come and we'll have your registration now. I'll wait until everyone takes up their jobs. I'm still waiting, waiting. We're doing a study on the question of how to account for a written registration, but so far, the Rules are also setting up an electronic registration. For many, I know it's important. And that's why we're waiting for our colleagues. So, your honor, I'd like you to conduct the registration. Please register. [[10:04:28]] 346 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! According to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies. Colleagues, I remind you, for national MPs, not factions, not factions, but national MPs. If you want to share in the discussion, prepare for the recording. So there's more chance of getting into the list of speakers. And, colleagues, please record the performance by the National MPs. Please, please, have a party. Please hold the recording. Shentz Dmitry Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Balitzki Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u3	Dear friends, today I wanted to draw attention to the unique watershed in Zaporozhye County, which is the Milky Liman. In its kind, it is the only water that is a natural source that facilitates the divorce of such a unique person as a pelengas. During independence, this promo was not cleaned, connecting the Azova Sea and the Milky Liman. I'm asking you to put on a video to make it clear what this is all about. This water is a 42-km-long mirror of water that enters the continent, facilitates the production of fish, and facilitates the operation of pioneer camps. That's how he was when he was 13 years old. By means of water, the public forces were brought to their original condition by means of the fact that people, starting with flashmobe, using manual tools, were able to bring back to life the technology that was unique. Here, you can see the flash mob that was held on this water tank. People cleaned up the promoina, the lemon filled up, and the Azova Sea responded favorably, naturally, that the fish had begun to disintegrate. Pioneer camps were made. People got it. Agriculture was produced as mists and precipitation on wet fields. When it was three years ago. Water was cleaned by the public forces. Three years later, when a fish appeared in the water, there was a species on top of it, a fish appeared, thousands of pelengas were released, thousands of ostrich persons. This was done by the public authorities without drawing a penny of public money. Then there were people on the water, who appeared, following the current fashion, some self-defense or someone else who was armed. Here, you see, it's a tiring fish that's going on in the water right now. They drove the public out of there, they drove out the people who did it for three years. Because there was a fish, because there were resources that could be enriched. This is the head of the Kirilov Village Council, who is outraged at what is happening, which is not responding in any way to our law enforcement structures. People can't work on their own, and they don't get what they call public opinion. I call for the deposit in this budget of the money that is needed to clear the promo with public money, so that these funds can be allocated to the construction of special facilities that will help keep the promo open. I also draw the attention of law enforcement agencies to the fact that some armed people who call themselves self-defence are not allowed to work by anyone else. Me, too. (Be good, 2 minutes literally, add 2 more minutes. Oh, 10 seconds, 10 seconds.)
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u4	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u5	Ten seconds. And prosecutor Shacki, who doesn't respond, is a force that doesn't respond to what's happening today: fish fatigue. I ask that my request be understood as a parliamentary request in both the budget and the use of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u6	Lucenko Igor Viktorovich is handing John Krulk over, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u7	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! I would like to address today's talk on a topic that is very much discussed in the information space of Ukraine this week -- the subject of cancelling the visa-free regime for Russia and for the Russians. Of course, the subject is important, of course, that we have to think about what to do with it, and I'm going to say, "The Fatherland" is going to vote. But I would like to remind you of the history of our relationship with Russia in general and to remind you of the situation of the Ukrainian community in Russia. On November 24, 2010, the Federal National Cultural Autonomy of Ukrainians in Russia was eliminated. On May 18, 2012, the Supreme Court of Russia ruled to eliminate the Ukrainian Union in Russia. We are now hearing that the Russian court, Moscow, has decided to abolish the Temple of Kyiv Patriarchat, the only church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in Russia will be subjected to exvaton. This is the real situation of Ukrainians in Russia. Instead, the Ukrainian budget for this year is zero to support the eastern diaspora so that we can support the Ukrainians in Russia. And at the same time, please tell me, how artificial is the visa-free regime being raised in this room right now? I am holding in my hands the Committee's conclusion in foreign affairs, which states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not support the proposed draft decision to abolish the visa-free regime for Ukrainians. So what's the game? It will be again, as it was with the judges last week, when they will pull out cards of overpowered factions and fail this decision. How much can Parliament be ashamed of? Instead, in this room, we need to figure out the full spectrum of relations with the Russian Federation, which is the occupying party. Why don't they vote on the original "Paternity" draft ruling on Ukraine's exit from the SND, of all SND organs? Why is it that Boris Tarasyuk is not voted on in this room to review the Great Covenant and abolish the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation? Why are we not finally eliminating diplomatic relations with the country's aggressor, who is killing Ukrainians who occupied Crimea, occupied part of Donbas? You know, I'll say here in the original language, it all reminds me of this sad satirical verse: "Slow step, working zigzag, not getting involved, if possible, carefully, quietly forward, working people!".. This is how today's diplomacy works with the Ukrainians in Russia and with regard to the country of the aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u8	Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u10	Please, National Deputy Wilkul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! On 3 October, the long-awaited one, all talked about, was published, the Government's Memorandum of Understanding with the International Monetary Fund, and more precisely the commitments. Regrettably, it has what the Ukrainians were so afraid of: the first is the Act on the Traffic in Agricultural Lands, which is in fact our Government has committed itself to opening up the agricultural market. The second is the commitment to a pension reform, and it is not only an increase in retirement age, but it is a complete elimination of any possibility of concessional pensions, namely: list 1, list 2. And thirdly, our Government has committed itself to removing a simplified tax system, which means killing one and a half million businesses, small businesses. The opposition bloc is today introducing bills: the first is to ban the sale of agricultural land. All moratoriums are still evil, they can be abolished. A full ban mechanism will be an effective mechanism. The second is the ban on the rise of retirement age and the ban on the abolition of the first and second lists. And the third is the bill to abolish the simplified tax system. Otherwise, we will not protect Ukrainian people, Ukrainian pensioners, Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Dear colleagues! I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that we are on the verge of breaking up a few days before the heating season. All right, we've got at least 14 billion cubes of what we need. And it takes 17 billion. So in fact, in winter, the average cold temperature in the houses will not be more than 12 degrees. Also, only 1 billion 200 tons of coal is at heat stations, with a minimum required reserve of 2.5 times more. What does that mean? These are either fan-offs, as was the case, for example, in December-month 2014, or, as was the case later, the purchase of electricity from the Russian Federation. So there's nothing else to do but fill the gas depots now and fill the TEC warehouses with coal. In this situation, when we have 8 times the price of gas, 2.5 times the price of electricity, 4.6 times the price of heat, people just can't pay for it. In August-month, August-month was warm, only 75 per cent of the people were able to pay the bills for the utility. What will happen in October and November? People will decide whether to feed the children or pay for the utilities, or whether these private performers will come, and more specifically the racketeers will start taking away the apartments. The opposition bloc demands: the first is to break the President's veto into bill 2706 to unlock the financing of heat energy so that it can be prepared for the winter, so that it can enter the heating season normally. The second is to take urgent measures to replenish stocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u12	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u13	To replenish coal and electricity reserves and lower dragon tariffs. In its version of the budget, the opposition bloc found money to reduce the tariffs twice on utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u14	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Dudenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u15	Alexander Longenkov, faction of the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to focus on the adoption of very important bills tomorrow, namely Bill 5217 on changes to Ukraine's public budget. What does this bill propose? The bill proposes an increase of 7 billion dollars in defence spending, and not only in defence, because there is not much money in the defence, but also in the structures of the Ministry of Public Administration, public officials, diplomats, ministers, public authorities. What resources are extracted from this bill in the budget? 1.3 billion come from Donetsk and Lugansk. Just think: A law has recently been passed whereby 3 billion of the uncontrolled territories of Donetsk and Lugansk were directed to other areas of need, other areas. What kind of money is that? These are the enterprises that operate in uncontrolled territories, but they pay the budget. So who's more patriotic in this situation? Now this same money, which has been added to the treasury account, offers to send the needs of the National Police, just think: 2 billion bracelets to the National Police are only offered to go, one and a half billion dollars to raise salaries for officials. This money is removed from local budgets, respectively. The Opposition Block faction is absolutely against taking that money. Moreover, this money should be aimed at restoring the infrastructure of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, which have been destroyed, for the needs of the people who really need it now, they have no normal conditions for living, you understand that. Moreover, the basic cynicism of power appears to be as follows: by adopting the Gosbudget Bill 2016, which is amended by Bill 5217, you freeze payments to temporary settlers. These are the people who are both in controlled territories and uncontrollable. In fact, the people who have left their homes have lost their beds, they have no State support, they feel alienated, they don't need a State. So where is the unity of the State? There's someone here who's been talking about the threat posed by Ukrainian statehood. I believe that it is this policy of the State which is aimed at looting Donbass that has led to the genocide of the Ukrainian people more than any external State.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you on the incomprehensibility of the work that we're already dealing with actually a week after the opening of this session. This is the day order for the entire session. Why is it not approved? Why are they not voting for the approval of the order, where are the most important issues that all factions of Parliament are? For one reason: to manually manage the session and to reject the most important issues. The first question that the Fatherland insists on. This is a continuation of the moratorium on land privatization. Why isn't this in order the day or the previous sessional week or this, and we don't know what's going to happen next? How can we enter the new fiscal year without realizing what the earth will be? Our bill was duly registered on September 15th. In fact, it's a week left and it'll end on the 30-day day when it can be considered. There are appropriate conclusions from the Scientific and Expert Office that support this. Why is this not a question raised in the session room? Tomorrow at the committee meeting, our representatives, farm representatives, will urge the committee to submit this bill immediately for introduction to the Hall. Another bill. A moratorium on evicting citizens who have only one place to live if they have a debt on municipal payments. The bill is registered at the right time. So far, there has been no conclusion from the Executive Board. The committee isn't ready to put this on a committee meeting today, because, you see, we don't have an approved agenda for the entire sessional period. Such a game will continue to take place with all the bills that are really necessary. The third question is the return to the tax system for agricultural production, which was in operation until 2015. When the government claims that they don't change the Tax Order Act, it's not true, because in almost two years, these changes start to work. We got our first hit in the village last year, and now, as of January 1, 2017, the village will finally be captured when nearly 30 billion direct funds are taken into the countryside. That's why this is the third bill we insist on. And the last. All attempts to replace the privatization of agricultural land with the so-called lease competition or emphyteusise -- in such a beautiful word -- are in fact the same disguised privatization of the land of agriculture. We understand how this will be done, and that is why we look forward to an adequate response to Parliament's adoption of the agenda where it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u18	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u19	to be a clear position of Parliament. So far the answer is different. In Zaporozhye district, the attempt to hold a forum of agrarians, where they wanted to discuss the budget for the following year, ended with what we were told was that a mine in this room was planted in the frontal area. So who's laying mines instead of the discussion we're looking for from the government? We insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u20	Ten seconds, please finish. Thank you very much. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u21	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine, what must we do today in Ukraine when the President continues to usurp power when the government makes decisions to make people poorer and choose them all the time? The Supreme Council must assume responsibility in the parliamentary and presidential republic for what is happening in the country. First of all, we need to adopt important laws that will allow the country to start emerging from the economic and social crisis. The Will Party is proposing such a plan of action to get out of the crisis. The first is in the economic sphere. We need to create the only economic, investment and industrial park in Ukraine with the following rules: 20 per cent of the EU's taxes, 10 per cent of the person's income, 15 per cent of the VAT and 15 per cent of the income tax, distributed income on dividends. The other one. The government has to develop and implement an infrastructure development plan for Ukraine, which has to contain a plan of split paths, highway lines, electricity lines, bridges, airports, this country will move from a third world to a country of the first world and create hundreds of thousands of jobs so that our citizens do not disbelieve abroad, in Russia or in other countries. Third. The adoption of a package of laws that deal with real decentralization that unlocks the end of this reform will make it possible for funds to be sent to places to decide what to do with those or other finances. Today, more than 200 united local communities, with about 2 million Ukrainian citizens, have blocked the election. The "Will" political party has brought this crime to trial, and we demand that the CEC unlock the process of unifying the territorial communities. Four. Lower tariffs on residential services. Today, out of every thousand dollars we pay for gas, for Ukrainian gas, about 580 dollars is a corrupt rent that goes into the pockets of oligarchs and, including the government and the President. We estimate that the real price of Ukrainian gas for the population should not be more than 2,000,900 dollars. If the price is the only one, it's a maximum of 5,000 100 dollars. Fifth. A temporary ban on privatization and the adoption of the relevant moratorium law by the end of the following year. Consider: The government plans to receive 17 billion dollars from the privatisation of strategic objects in Ukraine. These funds are not even enough to serve our external debt in one year. And the sixth. We strongly insist that we continue to have a moratorium on the privatization of agricultural land. We strongly insist that the government's policy be directed towards the preservation of the Blacklands and the fertility of the soil, and public policy should be a priority. We have to support our farmers, not give the land to our oligarchs. The Will Party is actively supporting Parliament's action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u22	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u23	The Will Party calls on Parliament to take action, to stop steps related to the usurpation of the President of the Government, as well as government actions aimed exclusively at the impoverishment of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u24	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, the Radical Party faction met with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, where in addition to the budget issues discussed, we asked the government to support our initiative to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. The bill was registered by me and my colleagues from the Radical Party faction in April of this year (registration number 4727). Prime Minister Groissman has promised members of our faction that the government supports the continuation of the moratorium on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land. If the government agrees to continue the moratorium, I demand that the relevant bills be put in Parliament immediately today or tomorrow, to vote on them, and to stop any discussion about the introduction of a land market in Ukraine. There can be no land market in Ukraine as long as Ukrainian peasants are impoverished, five oligarchic lands will buy all the land, and Ukrainian peasants will walk in bars. So if the government supports our demands to continue the moratorium, show it from word to deed. Let's vote in Parliament on a bill. Next. Problem is, I'd like to make a sound. In Ukraine, half a million pensioners who receive less than a thousand dollars are retired and are not indexed. Let him try to live on 940 bracelets by the one who assigned them! So we've registered an appropriate bill on the establishment of these pensions at a level not below the minimum of living and on their indexation. We demand that we urgently consider this bill so that half a million Ukrainian pensioners, the disabled I-II groups, will be able to get at least a minimum income to make ends meet. That's what I want to remind you. At the beginning of this year, Parliament voted a bill of deputies from the Radical Party to allow women 55 years of age to retire. Regrettably, the President vetoed this law, and Parliament still cannot overcome it. We demand that Parliament's leadership address the issue of the veto and allow Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. Another extremely important bill is the provision of free drugs to Ukrainian pensioners who are unable to buy them today through space-based drug prices. We have registered an appropriate bill, and we demand that we consider it in order to allow the pensioners to receive free medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u26	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u27	Dear friends, honourable Ukrainians, unfortunately, those police reforms that were announced last year have now turned 180 degrees and gone back and turned into anti-reforms. Last Saturday, I personally witnessed another fact. Sadly, such facts, by the way, appear daily to support the trend. Last Saturday, I witnessed a terrible painting in fact: an open hearing in the Court of Appeal, an appeal court surrounded by the police, and the police don't let journalists, activists, or ordinary Ukrainians in there. A violation of the law, a violation of the principle of openness of the Ukrainian court. I'd like to speak to foreign donors. Please tell me, the tens of millions of dollars you spent on creating a new police force, is that the result would have been that the new police would be standing with the berks and learning the worst? Is that what you wanted? I'd like to go to the head of the IMF and the National Police. Have you read the Constitution at all? Have you read the laws of Ukraine? On what basis were such illegal instructions given? I want to tell you that, unfortunately, things like this happen every day. The police in themselves are not protected from illegal orders from above. Today, citizens’ rights are systematically violated by the authorities. Why did this happen? Friends, fellow MPs, because you and I have moved away from police reform because you and I voted for the documents we brought here without discussing them without participating in police reform. That's why the crime wave is coming, so now the Ukrainians are suffering and the police are suffering. I urge you to return to police reform. I urge you to restart police reform. Let's decide in Parliament what laws have to regulate the police's activities, how they're supposed to conduct themselves, because these illiterate statements by the IMF and the National Police are simply misleading the people. I urge you to go back to those legislative initiatives that were in this room in the 15th year: increasing the role of the public in addressing police personnel issues. Actually, why shouldn't we choose the chief of police, just like we chose the chief of NAB at the open competition? We need to increase the role of local self-government in police control. After all, you and I have to sit down and work hard. And let's stop this moment of crime, let's protect the police, let's protect the little bits of reform we saw in the IMF and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u28	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u29	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I want to explain to our citizens what happened yesterday and why there was so much opposition, including from normal, decent deputies to the laws that were passed, including in industrial parks. We need to be very clear that there is a war of two economic paradigms in Ukraine. One economic paradigm that's been imposed on us for 25 years is the paradigm that happens itself, all self-corrects, the invisible hand of the market, the state is the night watch. But I want to remind you that the Americans had a wonderful expression, "Do not believe the advice of the English, but follow their example," in their century, when they were promoting the free market theory, because at that time they knew clearly that their companies were going to win over all the other companies. And one problem is that there are limitations and some support for your own manufacturer. And the same model is exported to Ukraine. You see, around our borders, only in the neighbouring countries of over 600 industrial parks, free economic zones, where the territory and so on with a good business climate, and they create conditions where more tax preferences, where more incentives, where fewer administrative barriers, because it's going to be a world war for investment. Look at Slovakia: 71 industrial parks return the investor in two years to 50 percent of the investment. Look at Lithuania, less than 3 million people: 45 business support tools, every company 10,000 euros -- exhibition activity, 60,000 euros -- certification, standardization by European standards, up to 40 percent -- technical restocking; eight free economic zones. Look at Turkey: 340 special economic, productive, and technological zones; even energy. You and I had the Free Economic Zone Act from 2001 to 2005, actually. Go to the Carpathians, look at those factories that are unique, which are built: "Jabil," "Flextronix," "Eurocar," and see how they stopped in their development after these conditions were lifted when they were abused by a comrade named Clovis. And instead of treating peppers, they took guillotine and just canceled all the regimes. We were applauded by all our neighbors: Poles, Hungarians, Slovaks all applauded because all these factories were opening up in their territory, and industrial parks were immediately organized in Hungary. I call for subjectivity, and I call for a clear understanding that there is one way in the world to succeed so that Ukraine does not invent anything new. Because when I ask our colleagues the pseudolibertarians, the neoliberals, you can call them differently, please, where is your model in the world that has led at least one country to success? Only deregulation, exclusively the state's non-intervention, is combined, all countries combine horizontal reforms and vertical reforms. So I urge our Parliament, first of all, to become economically educated and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u30	Thank you. And the final speech of the national deputy Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u31	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, yesterday there was a "industrial day" in the walls of Parliament, on which a package of investment-oriented industrial bills was adopted aimed at creating new jobs, involving investments, developing Ukrainian exports. Many of them were initiated by the Radical Party faction. And this is a big intermediate step -- a big success in setting up a new economic policy. But what did you show yesterday? He also showed the opposition in the House of Political Dinosaurs to genuine economic reforms. Yesterday, we saw political dinosaurs who consistently drag the country into the past, who are advocating the preservation of the raw economy model of Ukraine, depending on Ukraine's loans to the IMF, which assure us that it can't be otherwise. But their time goes on and on, they were in power, but to what did they lead the country? Before spending money in offshore areas today is more convenient than investing it in production in Ukraine. Before talented people today find it easier to emigrate than to work in Ukraine to develop their businesses and businesses. Before today, it is more convenient to do import and smuggling than to do production and business in the country. Before reformers today were called those who tried to save their lives in Ukrainian education and science, not reform, develop, and bring them to a world level. Today, young people have been led to dream of being officials and prosecutors, not scientists and entrepreneurs. Sadly, many today yearn for emigration rather than for the development and expansion of their families in their home country. People today have their hands down because they feel that it is impossible to break this vicious circle. But that's possible, and yesterday you and I in Parliament showed it. These political dinosaurs are more likely to keep the country in poverty and depending on international financial institutions, and are themselves mediators between metropolis and Ukraine, which is a supplier of raw materials to the world, a supplier of talented people into the world, because that's where they find their place. And that's why they're systematically based on initiatives like state-private partnership, energy service contracts, industrial parks, the Export Credit Agency and others, because these projects will make Ukrainians richer, make them more free, and these political dinosaurs will no longer be needed on the country's political landscape, and they want to maintain power. So I am grateful to all the economic patriots of Ukraine who supported the new economic course yesterday, for this course the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the time for the performances is over. We are now moving into the agenda and I would like to emphasise that the following two bills: a bill that deals with medicine that is fully agreed upon by all factions is important only to have the maximum presence. But in addition, two factions from the People's Front faction and the deputy faction, the Radical Party of Lalashka, have come to the fore, demanding a recess. But they are ready to replace the break for a three - minute talk and after a three - minute talk, we will move on to health issues. Who will act? Mr. Yelensky. Please turn on Mr. Yelen's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to make an application for a crime, a crime against the spiritual foundations of man, a crime against human dignity. For the first time in 30 years, the earth has been prepared to break down the Orthodox temple because of the Ukrainian temple. To endure because those who pray in this temple believe in Jesus Christ and practice the Orthodox faith, not the encircling of the Russian world. This is happening in the city of Noginsk Moscow, those who wanted to protect their temple, their lawyer succumbed to the urge, their lawyer was shot, people were exploited, beaten, killed. This happens when Muslims are killed in Crimea, on Donbas, in occupied territories, they kidnap Protestants, beat, kidnap, and murder, bury them in brotherly graves of those who do not want to be with the Moscow Patriarchate. Dear voters, I would like to stress once again that the Orthodox faith is not about rockets or planes that sanctify the Metropolitan Patriarchate of Moscow. Christian faith is about love, it's about unity and solidarity. What kind of solidarity can we talk about when Moscow's pops, who go to the Bentleys, are consecrating the weapons that kill Ukrainians, are throwing people right now on the walls of the Supreme Council, so that the Supreme Council doesn't stop spiritual slavery? The most disgusting thing is that now, in these moments, the Moscow Patriarchate is gathering a press conference against those laws that have to stop this spiritual slavery. They do not take solidarity with our Orthodox who are murdered in Moscow, who do not take it, who do not stand next to those whom Christ commanded to love, that is, with those who are persecuted. They take sides with the aggressor, they take sides with the exploiter. So we need to protect ourselves. The visa regime that the People's Front talked about and spoke of by the Speaker of Paris is the least.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u34	Can I have a moment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u35	We have an entire country, an entire international society to stand by those who are now being murdered in Moscow, who are being murdered in Lugansk and Donetsk. I want to tell our Orthodox brothers, those Christians and Muslims who are now suffering for their faith in occupied territories and in Russia, that we are with them, that the holy spirit is breathing wherever it pleases, not where the Moscow Patriarchy allows it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Yelensky. Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. So the first bill we have is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on psychiatric care (No. 4449). Fellow authors are representatives of virtually every faction of this bill's parliament. For a long time, the Health Committee requested that we consider two bills that are now in the order of the day. So I ask you to support their consideration of the reduced procedure and to take an active part in the discussion, colleagues. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. There will now be a vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on a motion to consider a simplified procedure for draft Law 4449. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[10:45:48]] For-147 We didn't make it, I see. Please. I see we didn't make it. Please come into the hall. Three votes. My colleagues, I'm putting it to the vote again. So I'm voting on a motion to consider a reduced procedure, colleagues. This way we can look at more bills. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:46:38]] For-154 Decision taken. And I would like to invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to the report, and I would like to include the video in her presentation. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u37	Honorary colleagues, honourable national deputies, submitted for Parliament’s consideration of draft Ukrainian Law No. 4449, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of psychiatric care developed by Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health. This law not only allows the provision of psychiatric assistance to European quality, but also allows it to decommunize and remove the penal function of psychiatry that it was in Soviet power. When you know that people have been tortured in psychiatric hospitals, please pay attention to the screens where you can see stories from different TV channels that have been filmed in different psychiatric hospitals. Today, according to our psychiatric services, there are more than one and a half million people with psychiatric diagnosis in Ukraine, more than one million 600,000 of whom 25 are hospitalized. They can't go to a demonstration, they can't write a petition, they can't go to a press conference, so our job of conscious society is to adopt laws that will protect their rights. Law 4449 also allows Ukraine not only to protect human rights, it also allows it to remedy the human rights violations that have taken place today, and Ukrainian citizens are winning cases against Ukraine, and millions of Ukraine’s funds are being paid annually to those citizens who are being tried against Ukraine, and according to a European Court of Human Rights decision they are winning cases. This law will make it impossible to practically perform forced sterilization without the consent of that mentally ill person, and this law will not provide an opportunity, that is, allowing people to receive additional alternative advice. Our job is to make a psychiatrist in Ukraine European. Our task is to ensure that those in need of protection have this protection. Of course, this law will still need further work. And according to the main decision. GNEU, the GNEU cites a number of comments to this bill, and we agree with them. And all of these comments can be corrected and incorporated into the text of the bill between the first and the second readings. Thus, the Supreme Council Committee on Health, after considering the bill, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading. The Ministry of Health also supports this bill. Please support the committee's proposal to adopt Bill No. 4449 as a basis. Once again, this law will improve the quality of psychiatric care not only for civilians but also for prisoners. It will promote, allow for improved access to justice for persons with mental health problems, prevent cases of inhumane treatment of disabled persons. Please support Bill 4449 as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Please, Lucenko Igor Viktorovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u39	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to your colleague, Kugel Alexandri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u40	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Our faction considers this bill to be very important, especially for all democratic, thinking people who remember how a penal psychiatry was a means of suppressing democracy in the totalitarian Soviet Union and an effective mechanism to destroy all those who fought totalitarianism. We all have our own kind of trauma in history. What positive effects do we want to highlight? As for the requirements currently in place and the need for agreement, a written agreement is required. That all those condemned to be deprived of their liberty should be provided with psychiatric care in the special facilities. That a person may be viewed as being unawakened, but it must be provided that he or she does not create significant abuses. And there are many other examples. We propose to support this bill in the first reading. And to the second reading, invite famous professionals and psychiatrists and users of the services of doctors, that is, parents and relatives of people who have such a problem in the family, to process it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u41	Thank you very much. Please, Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u42	Good afternoon! Oksana Korchinska, Ukrainian national deputy. Your Honor, please support the bill in the first reading. This is an extremely important bill that allows us to understand that these people are sick and need our help. But they are not doomed! And that's why it's so important to support this bill right now. I ask the next week’s sessionary to put in place a block of our health - care bills. The country and the patients are waiting for this! Thank you. Everyone, please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Matthewnkov gives the word Igor Shurma. Please turn on Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u44	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The Opposition Block faction will support and vote in favour of this bill. Why? We will always support initiatives that benefit both the state and the people. People who work in prisons and people who are being treated. We vote yes, because the state guarantees targeted funding for psychiatric care in accordance with approved clinical protocols. We vote in favour because it's a matter of enforcement. We vote in favour because the work of medical workers, which is very difficult, is counted in two years. But as one of the authors of this bill, I also have to say that this bill can only be voted on in the first reading. Why? Guaranteeed funding under the protocols. And is it foreseen in our 2017 budget? Did the Ministry of Health do anything to make the law work in the future, that is to say, to allocate money for it? And are the protocols of the clinical trials themselves? None. The position of the Ministry is unknown. We are voting for today with a warning that the exclusion of certain provisions of the Law on the Order of Examination without informed consent may pose risks to patients, so this needs to be worked out in a second reading. And one more thing. It would be very good if the initiators were not only national MPs but also the Ministry of Health. What is it doing today? It's a shame to read that without the concept of development, the Ministry of Health is putting forward a draft order for discussion -- think about the setting up of medical, biological and socio-psychological evidence to change sexuality and the form of documentation. Until the Ministry develops a concept, it will be engaged in any nonsense, including sexual change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Now there will be a closing statement by Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich and then we will move on to making decisions. So I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In two minutes, the decision will be made. Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u46	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The People's Will Group will only support this bill in the first reading and will do its utmost to ensure that, between the first and second readings, there is a way to remove the corruption component so that so-called businessmen who want to take advantage of the mentally ill would not be able to do their own thieving. To that end, we will involve as many public organizations as possible who will participate in the drafting of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we are now moving on to making a decision. All those who participated in the discussion noted that they supported the bill on the basis of the committee’s proposal. And I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. So, dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on psychiatric care (number 4449). The committee's proposal is to vote on the proposal to accept it as a basis, colleagues. It's important to our colleagues on the committee. Please take part in the vote and support the 4449 as a basis. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[10:57:46]] For 257 257, yes. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. The next bill is also proposed by the Health Committee. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the regulation of legislation in the field of precautionary measures against a person for whom compulsory medical measures are envisaged or the question of their application has been decided) (1242). And I'm also asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, for the summary procedure, please vote. [[10:58:41]] For-164 164 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Illenek Andriy Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u48	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to regulate legislation in the field of precautionary measures against a person for whom compulsory medical measures are envisaged or applied. According to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which is now in force, a number of novelties have been introduced. In particular, in accordance with article 508 of the Criminal Procedure Code, two types of precautionary measures may be applied to a person for whom enforcement measures of a medical nature are envisaged or applied: transfer to caregivers, close relatives and family members with mandatory medical supervision, and the second, placement in a psychiatric institution in conditions that exclude dangerous conduct. But today the practice of applying such precautions has demonstrated a number of problems in its implementation. They are primarily related to the absence of a legal and regulatory instrument regarding the procedure for the use of precautionary measures in the form of the placement of a person in a psychiatric institution in conditions that exclude his or her dangerous behaviour. In its essence, the preventive measures provided for in article 38 of the Ukrainian KPC are a form of psychiatric care. At the same time, chapter III of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act does not provide for this type of psychiatric care. Therefore, this bill proposes to regulate legislation in this area by amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Health Legislation and the Law on Psychiatric Assistance. Making adjustments will help to properly address the issue of preventive measures against a person for whom medical enforcement is envisaged or the issue of their application has been resolved. The Professional Committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve the bill on the basis of further work on the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u49	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, members of the Health Committee support Bill No. 1242 and we ask all of you to support this bill in the first reading, to accept it as a basis. Actually, these are the two bills -- 1242 and 4449 -- that you just voted for -- are the laws that bring Ukrainian psychiatry closer to European. These are the laws that allow people to feel protected. These are the laws that allow mentally ill people to hope for quality counseling. These are the laws that will protect those who may be with mentally dangerous people or those who have committed a crime. To ensure that these people are kept in conditions where they will not endanger society. That is why the Health Committee, personally, I ask you to support Bill 1242 on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Lensky, please turn on the microphone. Lensky Alexei. He's making a speech. Saucuk Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Like the previous bill that we voted with you, this one, which is presented today by our colleagues, is very much needed by our state, our society. But one thing I want to point out is that these projects will work properly and effectively to be used by the state and will only be used for budget costs if the electronic register of patients starts to work in our medicine. The important thing that we need today for these two bills and others that we're going to accept with you. So in the first reading, I think we have to adopt this bill too, but in the future, in order to accept it in general, we need to adopt a bill. We need to make a decision on the work of an electronic patient register that's been there for two years. a working group that's been in the MOH for two years now, and it's successfully blocked by the Ministry. My country's minstrel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u55	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition bloc faction will no doubt support the bill. Why? Because in two years of so-called coalition reform, we are beginning to listen for the first time to the laws relating to health care and their guarantees. It is a pleasure that the MPs today are the authors of those initiatives, and the ministry is silent. Why would we support him? Because today there is a humanitarianization of the treatment of people with mental illness. The transfer to care for caregivers, close relatives, or family members with their compulsory medical care is like money. But what I would like to say is that the question of the application of precautionary measures to a person for whom the cessation of coercive measures of a medical nature is envisaged is that, as of today, it is systematically, I would like to stress, systematically regulated by the current legislation of Ukraine, in particular by regulations. Now the main thing: Why are we considering changes and additions to the laws today? When it comes to reforming the health care system in Ukraine, we may have conversations with the public, educational, but we do not speak professionally. No one knows how to do the reform, do you know why? I'm going to say, as a person who worked at the level of urban and district health care, because the left-hand side of an active legal base, which is in Ukraine, is not being implemented. If we were to ensure the implementation of the legal framework that is today, we would understand what we need to change, and so to this day and the visa there. Remember 2014: we will reform, we promise you to hold a government meeting. The new prime minister said that by August the Cabinet of Ministers would be meeting in reform. It's not there, there's no concept, there's no system for enacting laws and regulations. That's why we're sporadicly one or the other bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Sidorovich Ruslan, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I want to pay attention, to my point of view, to the inadequacy of the title of the bill with what it actually regulates. One of the drafters of the bill, speaking, said that the bill dealt with the issue of the application of precautionary measures to a person for whom compulsory measures of a medical nature were envisaged or decided on their application. At the same time, despite the fact that the problem lies in the face of criminal proceedings, changes are made to the Ukrainian Law, the Basics of Ukrainian Health Protection Legislation, and the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act. Not enough, article 19 with badge 1, which is proposed to supplement the Psychiatric Assistance Act, effectively duplicates existing standards of the Criminal Procedure Code, particularly 508th, 509ths, which in fact determine the basis and order of application of appropriate measures. Accordingly, taking into account all the circumstances involved, questions arise as to the quality of the bill itself, its design and its complexity, and duplication, despite the fact that there is actually a problem in the sector. So perhaps this bill can be supported in the first reading, but only on the basis of a final approach to a quality, balanced bill that will really address the issue that is in court practice regarding the application of coercive measures of a medical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Kugel, one minute. Then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u59	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, what I'm saying is that this bill can only be supported if there's much work to be done. The positive thing is that the right in the person’s legislation to conduct an independent medical expertise is being strengthened. But by supporting a self-help colleague, I believe that article 58 of the Criminal Code, in the form in which they propose, allows you to get away from punishment and go to a quiet psychiatric hospital, simulating a psychiatric disorder. The suggestion to be brief is to support in the first reading, no short terms, and seriously elaborate. But the law is needed today because it enables us not to apply forcefully and allows us to close the gaps in the use of mental disorders in order to get away with criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. I very much ask all the national deputies to come to the hall. Please and heads of factions mobilize deputies, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council please invite deputies to the Hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And now I'm asking you to turn on Sergei Melniczuk's microphone. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u61	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. I want to remember the 14th year as one of the colleagues in the Environment. And Mr. Andrey, to you first. If you remember, June-Month, the PNB meeting, when I was to be sent as commander of the battalion for psychiatric expertise. So I want the lawmakers to look very carefully so that there is no further use of power in the future by the police in the state, any further destruction of the forces that speak of it. There's going to be a very thin line that we're going to go through. It is vital that we pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. All the speakers supported the proposal to vote on the basis of the bill. Please take up jobs, we're moving on to a decision. Please, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (No. 1242) to propose a committee as a basis, a colleague. Just for the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. And, colleagues, please support our Health Committee. Please vote for base 1242. Please vote. [[11:11:22]] For 242 Decision taken. Welcome to both the committee and the authors. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. And my colleagues, yesterday after six o'clock, I offered to put two important draft decisions into the agenda -- don't split. One refers to the appeal of the Supreme Council to the international organizations and parliaments of foreign nations to condemn and not recognize the prohibition by the Russian Federation of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and to protect the indigenous people of Crimea by an international association (author of Chubarov Refat). And the second is the decree on illegal deprivation of liberty of Ukrainian journalists Roman Suschenk and Mikoli Semimen. I think this is a question that unites the entire room, and I think we should vote together because yesterday there was negative information that Parliament failed to vote on these projects, and our internationalists say that we need to call on international organizations as soon as possible. Yesterday some made warnings that they had not been able to examine them, but to this day, I am sure everyone was able to get to know them, analyze them. And I'm asking my fellow national MPs, this is a very important principle of symbolicity and therefore an important positive vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please. And I will put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of the decisions of the two decrees, decree 5215 of the Ukrainian National Deputy Chubarov Refata and decree 5220 of the People's Deputy Ionovov -- an appeal to international organizations, a colleague. I ask you to maintain the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please support me, please vote. Colleagues, please vote for inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:13:55]] For 236 236 for. Decision taken. And we're going to consider the first decision -- this is the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations and parliaments of foreign states on the condemnation and non-recognition of the prohibition by the Russian Federation of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:14:31]] For 204 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chubarov Refata. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u63	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international organizations and parliaments of foreign states on the condemnation and non-recognition of the prohibition by the Russian Federation of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and on the protection of the indigenous people of Crimea by an international association. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that on April 26, an illegal, so-called Supreme Court of Crimea, a decision was taken to prohibit the activities of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and to recognize them as an extremist organization. After that, we had some discussions among the Majlis members, and we responded to our Western partners' requests and appealed to the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation. So this is how we wanted to show the whole world again that no dialogue with the Russian Federation where human rights are concerned, they're ineffective, but we're still putting it to trial. On September 29, the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation dismissed the appeal, and so Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people is now considered an extremist organization in Russia and its activities are banned. Immediately thereafter, repression followed. This morning, a search is carried out in the homes of Crimean Tatar activists. As for the text of the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u64	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u65	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u66	As for the text, I would like to add the name Siruk Wadima on page 5 to the list of Crimean Tatar activists. He's not an ethnic Crimean Tatar, he's a Ukrainian, but he's a Crimecat activist and he's now behind bars awaiting trial. And it must be among those whom we protect. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u67	The committee’s co-report is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u68	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, in the media, we read that the Ethiopians began searching Suleiman Kadirov in Feodosia, one of the members of the regional Majlis. In fact, it's one of the 3,000 members of Majlis who, after the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation ruled, after the court dismissed the appeal regarding the recognition of Majlis by a terrorist organization, falls under a very different level of repression, actually. And we need to realize that the Russian strategy for the destruction of the Crimean Tatar people is being implemented. I want to go to the people who live in the Crimean Peninsula, in the Crimea area, the Ukrainians and the Crimean Tatars and say, "Dear Suleiman, we can't be with you, we can't respond to your call to come to your house and support you. But as parliamentarians, we as Ukrainian authorities can use our legislative instruments today, our diplomatic instruments to protect our citizens." Thus, today’s decree has been called upon to appeal to the National Security Council of the United Nations to hold a separate hearing session on the situation in Crimea, how repressions are taking place against our citizens. Similarly, we appeal to the international community to authorize sanctions against those who participated in the courts on, in fact, the adoption of decisions on the recognition of Majlis by a terrorist organization. The Committee on Foreign Affairs upheld the decision. I ask you to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? We can vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, that's, I think, for every important thing. Today, the Crimean Tatar people are being persecuted according to the ethnic sign that Nazism and Communism did. And the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speak its word in defense and to address international organizations, especially those who want to soften sanctions against Russia, reminding us that in the 21st century, crimes against the entire nation are committed. And the entire world of civilization must be shouldered in defense of the Crimean Tatar people together with the Ukrainian people and with us. And our position should be shared and united. Please, we're taking up jobs, we're getting ready to vote. And I am voting on the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international organizations and parliaments of foreign states on the condemnation and non-recognition of the prohibition by the Russian Federation of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and on the protection of the indigenous people of Crimea by an international association, No. 5215 as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please vote, please support. [[11:21:50]] For 248 It's been decided. Welcome to the National Deputies. Next order: the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Illegal Deprivation of Freedom of Ukrainian Journalists Roman Suschenka and Mikoli Semina". I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, consider the simplified procedure. [[11:22:25]] For 210 Decision taken. And I invite you to the author's report on the bill, Jon's Maria Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u70	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This decree is made by the people’s deputies: Heratchenko, Sumar, Kondratjuk, Lucenko, Friz, Ariev, Zaleschuk, Gopko, and other colleagues. First of all, I would like to ask you to make the amendments that the committee made. And the list of addressees to whom this letter is due is to be added to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe of England. On September 30, Ukrainian journalist Roman Sąszczenko was detained for absurd charges of spying. Ukrainian diplomats and consuls still. They learned about it at all by accident, and only on October 2nd by law enforcement and the media. So far, the consuls have not been allowed to go to Roman. Just a lawyer, let go for 15 minutes. This is not the first case of the absurd arrest of Ukrainian journalists by the Russian Federation and the militants on charges of diversion and espionage. Maria Bartholomew, who had been in captivity for a year and a half, was also detained. And now we're starting a trial in Crimea over Nicholas Seed. It's not released from Crimea, it's glued to diversions, it's another joke. The Russian Federation's spies and divers have declared Ukrainian teenagers detained, 73-year-old Yuri Soloshenka, historian Igor Kozlovski, UN representative Yuri Suprun and other Ukrainian patriots just because they have Ukrainian passports and they hold Ukrainian positions. Roman Suschenko, a journalist with many years of experience, has been working for the past few years as his own correspondent for Ukriform in Paris. He was detained on premeditated charges, and soon all Ukrainian journalists will be kidnapped. We demand a strong and unequivocal response from the world that respects human rights and respects the protection of human rights. (Can I finish?)
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u72	It's of principle value. I want to say that Sushchenko is another political prisoner of the Russian Federation. In the Russian Federation, it's becoming dangerous to travel to all Ukrainian citizens, and we'll join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs call to refrain from travelling to the Russian Federation. By the way, some national MPs should also refrain from travelling to the Russian Federation. We are addressing the countries of the European Union, the Great Seven, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, demanding a strong response and an assessment of the next provocation of the Russian Federation, the arrest of a Ukrainian journalist. We're demanding the release of the son of a bitch, the closure of an absurd case against Nicholas Simeon, so that he can leave the temporarily occupied Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u73	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u74	We demand that the attention of the world be increased to all Kremlin political prisoners illegally held by the Russian Federation and hostages in occupied territories. Because while the Russian Federation continues to hunt Ukrainians for their Ukrainian passport and Ukrainian position, we have to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u75	Thank you. The committee's report is the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the foreign affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u76	Dear Head, dear Ukrainians, the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the illegal deprivation of liberty of Ukrainian journalists Roman Sąszczenk and Mikola Semin" we call on you to the parliaments of the member states of the European Union, the US, Canada and Japan, the European Parliament and a number of OSCE officials to condemn the actions of the Russian Federation in connection with the illegal detention and deprivation of freedom of Ukrainian journalists by calling for the consolidation of the efforts of the international community to free them. We have an example of the release from the psychiatric hospital of one of the leaders of Ilma Umerov. And that is what we want to do to help our journalists to be free. As a result of its consideration of October 4, 2016, the draft regulation was discussed on the committee and recommended that it be adopted with the following amendments and additions. Please look at the committee's decisions, these changes and additions that are there. And we urge you to consolidate efforts to free Ukrainian journalists from the power of the Russian Federation, which grossly violates human rights, to facilitate the immediate admission of Ukrainian consular officials and lawyers to the detained Roman Sistenko. Only through the joint actions of Ukraine and the international community can we stop gross human rights violations that unfortunately become a constant practice in the Russian Federation. Therefore, I would like to support this draft with regard to the proposals, changes and additions that have been made to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, I'm convincing this question no less of a principle. We vote, we wait until they get into the hall, right now in 30 seconds. Colleagues! Our journalists are being taken hostage by a terrorist state, the Russian Federation, we must react quickly and react harshly to the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I'll wait for you to come in and take your jobs. Colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the illegal deprivation of liberty of Ukrainian journalists Roman Suštenek and Mikaly Semen (No. 5220), as amended by the author of Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, and with the Committee's rights, which were echoed by the committee's head, on the basis and in general with the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support 5220 as a whole. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[11:29:13]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, these were important symbolic decisions. Thank you for your active work. And now we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft of the Act amending the Law on Copyright and Competitive Rights on the use of copyright in parodys, purgatory and cartoons. I'm asking you to support his proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:30:00]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikol Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is simple, but it is also very important. The main objective of this bill is to harmonise individual rules in the field of copyright with European Union legislation and to remove the conflict in national legislation. The bill envisages allowing creators to use freely in their works (genuines), parody, cartoons and works of other authors within the bounds provided for by law, and establishing legal concepts: parody, pougari, cartoons based on the EU's legal practice. Today, such definitions are not in the existing legislation. The European Parliament’s Directive on the Harmonization of Certain Aspects of Copyright and Neighbouring Rights in the Information Society provides for the possibility of national legislation allowing the use of copyright without the author’s permission, when used as caricature, parody, or purgatory. Yes, today types of works such as cartoons, purgatory and parody take place in Ukraine, but the lack of legislative definition has resulted in a mixed interpretation of the rules of this violation or no infringement of copyright in their creation and lawsuits that can be avoided. Thus, according to European practice, it is proposed to define concepts such as cartoons, parody, and populace, and to predict that such works will be created. The main piece can be used without the author's consent. A committee of professionals made editorial clarifications to the text of the bill. There are no observations from scientists and practitioners regarding this law. Please support me in the first reading and in general, as proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u79	Thank you. It was from the author. And from the committee, who's it gonna be? Please. I invite you to report to the committee of the People's Deputy Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u80	The President-in-Office, the honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting held on 16 March 2016, reviewed the bill, and considers the amendments and additions proposed by the author to be completely justified and remove obstacles to the development of this kind of creativity. The purpose of the bill is to implement European directives in Ukrainian legislation. But, dear colleagues, in relation to technical regulations, there is a proposal for a transcript -- I will read this text -- to adopt this bill not only on a basis, but in general. Therefore, under the transcript, the Committee on Science and Education recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and, in general, as long as the following fundamental amendments are taken into account, under the transcript. This is consistent with the author of the project. First. Make changes to the definitions: caricatures. In the definition of "caricature," after the words "including the character of the piece or the name of the character of the piece," add the word "what." Next on the draft law. The other one. The terms "parody" and "popuri" are written in this way. "Parodia is a work that is the creative work of another, lawfully published work or part of it, which has a comical, satirical character in its contents or is aimed at mocking certain events or persons. Pouri is a musical or other work that is the creative selection and placement of other texts, well-published works, or that imitate the creative style of other authors or performers or other historical eras." Third. In paragraph 2 of the bill, which is proposed to complete the first article of article 21 of the Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights with a new paragraph 9 to delete the words “and also the use of such parody, pougri or cartoons”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u81	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for the two-for-and-two-again discussion. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Taras Kremen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u82	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Our faction unanimously supports the draft decision that has been proposed by both the author of the bill and the chairman of our committee. I can confirm that we have considered this bill on our committee -- a unanimous decision on its support. And along with the comments that have been made, I believe that it can be accepted as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies from the People's Front, and from other factions, please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u83	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Andrey Antonichuk, the Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u85	Please. National Deputy Taras Batenko
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u86	Dear fellow MPs, we will support this bill. We think he's going forward in the world because cartoons have always been a driving force in society and made fun of the main flaws in life. So I think that these moral standards that we want to sort out are just going to be normalized in this bill, and we ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and national MPs! Respectable citizens! The very important question that Parliament is currently considering is cartoons, parodys, pompous. All the problems in the country have been solved. We respect cartoons and parodys, and in the morning I get mood swings if I don't see parody or cartoons. But we have all the power as a parody and cartoon. Are these the urgent issues that Parliament should consider? Do not the dignitaries, the cartoonists, and the Puritans know what people are living on? We're all parody to people, and the parody to their lives that they really dream about. Where is the question in the parliament of tariffs? Where are the questions in Parliament for the protection of Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian farmers, Ukrainian metallurgy, builders, miners, teachers, doctors? You're looking at a time of crisis, there's no more pressing issue than making changes to the Law on Paradisaics and Caricatures. The Radical Party faction, in order for power not to be a parody and cartoon, requires the Ukrainian Parliament to bring the issue of the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land here without delay. We require Parliament to vote on the Law to give women 55 years of retirement, we demand that Parliament vote on the Law on the Reduction of Tariffs on Housing Services, on the Recalculation of the Price of Gas for Citizens, on the Provision of Free Medicines to Pensioners from the Need, on the Return to Farmers of Special VAT Taxation, on the Protection of the Home Country and on the National Manufacturer. That's what Parliament should be looking at, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kugel. People's deputies prepare for the vote, please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u90	The Fatherland faction thanks the Radical Party that you support the inclusion in the agenda of those bills that we broadcast yesterday, they are both important about tariffs and about moratoriums on land, and about the prohibition of taking housing in the absence of municipal services, and about changing pension laws. But this bill is a "Lamus paper" for you and I today to make changes to adjacent copyrights, because most cartoons, parodys go to politicians, and whatever we don't like, you remember the ancient parable: "if the people are laughing, take away from it." This is a signal to the President and to the acting authorities, thank you to the 95th quarter, thank you to the Odessites, thank you to all the coffeemakers. Thank you for making fun of all of us politicians so that they can understand that people are no longer in pain and that there is nothing to take. And this bill does not allow the state to "deliver" them and pay for copyright. Draw Madonna Gottareva with a cat on her hands that destroyed the bank. Draw and mock us, for only in this way may there be an absurdity and the active authority will see that it is necessary to return to people with a face rather than a city. We support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Now, one minute, Mikola Knieżicki. Please. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u92	I want to thank Alexander Kugel because this is really a bill on freedom of speech, about freedom of politics, about our future, about freedom to paint cartoons for those who have been so badly condemned by Oleg Lazko from this rostrum. Because freedom of speech is what will give us to lower tariffs and build a normal country. I urge all of you to support this bill on the basis and in general with the committee's rights, as drafted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u93	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. In fact, all those who spoke supported the bill. And they rethought its meaning in fact during the discussion. And that's why I'm voting on Bill No.3586, on the committee's proposal, on the basis and in general, of colleagues. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. 3586. At the suggestion of the committee on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:41:07]] For 227 The law is passed. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee on quality work. Colleagues, we have the next draft of the Mediation Act. An unforgivable bill, but it's already been discussed enough, and we can argue that we can have the support of the entire hall. Is there an Alona Shkrum? Yes. Excuse me, colleagues, colleagues, the People's Front, before we put this to a vote, is this final, Alona, information? Just now, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] The author has the right to be dismissed. I'm giving the author one minute to perform. Now, colleagues, a second, let's not go in. The author asks that the bill be removed from consideration, colleagues. We're taking it off the table. Although I did have previous information that everyone is in favor. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (5106). Please support, we have 15 minutes before recess, please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please, 5106, with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please. [[11:43:25]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Prevention of Corruption, Sobolev Egor Viktorovich. Mr. Yegor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u94	In fact, when these recommendations were discussed in the summer and were approved in early September, you can read what we are proposing to Parliament, what we expect from the President, what laws the government should implement. I want to say that in recent weeks we have new challenges here in the middle of Parliament and not just in the middle of Parliament. Now the moment has come when we all have to open up all the information about our families' property, and the main thing is not just to open it up, but also to explain where we got it. And you know, there are a lot of initiatives, let's rewrite legislation at the last minute. I would like to remind you that this Parliament has twice had the shame of trying to do so. The first was the story of the initiative of Deputy Andrew Derkach. Second story from Deputy Wadim Denisenko's initiative. As a result, under the pressure of society at the request of our key geopolitical partners: the United States, the European Union -- we have put legislation back in Parliament to the requirement that we have full declarations and fully explain what is written there. I suggest we stay out of this disgrace in the third place. I now know that the top leaders of the state are again trying to convince our European partners that they cannot reveal all the property of the officials because there will be a great wave of crime. I want to tell everyone who's going through this, I know, really, a lot of people are going through this. Talk to any criminal, talk to any police officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u95	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u96	Andrew, can I have some more? Two more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u97	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u98	Any expert in crime will tell you that professional criminals who rob apartments, who don't give a damn about kidnapping people, have huge branches of technology and tracking, have huge branches of technology and information gathering. And what do you think the closure of some of the data declarations will save you from being reselled on Petrówka the next day, as they will appear on the websites of the public authorities, on the servers of the public authorities? Clearly, this is not serious. As officials, I think it's a very strange logic at all, we can't be afraid of criminals, we have to make criminals smaller, let us create legislation that frees businesses from overregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u99	30 seconds and please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u100	Because ultimately, crime is the result of a poorly working sick economy. So the second argument, no one in Parliament, no one in Ministers, no one in the Presidents was dragged on the rope. If we're not ready to open, these doors are open on both sides, you're creating a mandate, you're writing a statement from the post of minister or other high-ranking man and you're living in peace, you're not filling out any declarations, you're not ProZoro. Therefore, my appeal to you, honourable national deputies, let us commend you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u101	Thank you. We heard, "Let's take this decision as a basis and as a whole." Okay, two sentences, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u102	Let's adopt these recommendations by adding one sentence: "The law on the openness of all officials' declarations and the duty to explain what they have written must be fully implemented."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u105	The Fatherland faction will support the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, but I would like to point out, Mr. Sobolev, that there are some accents. First, personally, I'd like to ask you to take this very seriously when you're considering legislation on corruption. Where it's not you write it is where it is, you don't see it somehow. And I don't know who's cooking? Remember, there is always corruption in the middle chain, and those working on your committee are more rapid than those of the deputies. That's the first question. The other one. There is now a great conflict in the country, which is most important in the fight against corruption. I think we should put, and our faction on this insists that the most important phrase here, open things and plant, not just show us these people and then they run and do nothing. We will reward each of you, all of you working in this direction, because today people are asking when the result will be? And, thirdly, Mr. Sobolev. There are a lot of public organizations like Mr. Shabunin, so let him hear me. That's what I also want him to fill out an electronic declaration. I think everyone who receives grants has to fill out electronic declarations. Because I want him to also show the address where he lives and then he'll explain why he has so many bank accounts? I want to tell you, there is a warning, there is no country in Europe. a man, not just a politician, money at home, because there are huge banks. What about you and me? 67 banks have been destroyed, Mikhail's people stand unpaid. Mr. Sobolev, always do it for yourself, you have four children, you and your wife will be at work, and some creature, not a professional gangster will have your address and read that there's some sort of box of your wife. And he's unprofessional, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u106	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u107	Either he's back from war, or he's out of work, or he's just out of jail. We fall in and put people in jail. The head of the village council, who wrote that he had saved 10,000 for the treatment and they were lying at his house. And the first person to go home. We don't speak, hide from the organs, we speak, hide from open access the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u108	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Vuk Viktor Ivanovich gives the word Láško Oleg Valeriovich. I'll give it to the end, if I may, I'll give it to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction supports all efforts aimed at a real, word-based, real fight against corruption, not a pierre on corruption, because we, we know, have in Parliament such anti-corruption fighters who have already bought three apartments and can't explain, at the expense of what they bought, these apartments. So if the fight against corruption ends with you buying apartments at the expense of your girlfriends and interestless loans for 10 years for $100,000, give the Ukrainian farmer $100,000 credit for 10 years, give the Ukrainian national producer interest-free loans. And now I'm going to tell you about real corruption. Last week, on Friday, I was in the Dnipropetrovsk region, the Novomoskovsky region, the village of Pázna, where there is a powerful farm. The master died, could not cool the body, it had not been nine days since his death as a registrar in the Odessa region who had copied the farm to completely other people (riders) who had come and the farm that this family had been building for 25 years now wanted to take away from this family. Both the police and the D.A. and the local authorities are covering for the raiders, because our fellow Ukrainian national MP is behind the raiders from Mr. Nesterenko's "Peter Prashenko's Block." And the villagers cannot find the truth anywhere, because the authorities, the authorities, the national MP, are taking the land from them. I ask the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, to take all measures to stop the raid on peasants in both Dnipropetrovsk and throughout the country. This will be a real fight against corruption, not the blank papers you accept here!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u110	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u111	The Peter Prashenko faction, of course, will support the holding of parliamentary hearings unequivocally. I'd like to say a little bit about something else. I'd like you to consider the previous speaker from the "Fatherland" faction. I'd like to highlight that. When you swear on power and when you tell everyone how to fight corruption, you may have forgotten a little bit about where you must have been in 2005? Wasn't it you, by chance, standing on a stand and yelling at Ukraine, "Janukovich will come and order"? You'll have to figure out where you are. So you're fighting the power. People say you know who lives, who lives. I see you're living under loving authority. You've lived wonderfully with Yanukovic, you've lived wonderfully now. And you will have a wonderful life! Because only amoebas can do that like you do, you know? Don't pull your hand, I didn't call your family. Ukraine will look at YouTube and see who stood there and spoke and glorify Yanukovich. That's why you need advice: go to the coffeemakers you praise, go to 95th Street, and let them show you there! Let them show you to Mr. Yanukovich's face. You're going to jump to the rooster and say, "Bad powder." Forget this family for yourself! For you, Janukovich is too classy. Go to Moscow and kiss him there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u112	He's the People's Front, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u113	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. The issue of corruption and the fight against it is of great importance to our nation. That's why the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and the People's Front faction have initiated and voted, and have made decisions in Parliament to create the necessary anti-corruption bodies such as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, such as the National Anti-Corruption Agency (NASK). It was the government of Arsenija Yatzenyuk that passed the Law on Electronic Declarations, which we had so difficult to accept, and so hard to get it to work. But, dear fellows, all this great work we have with you at the request of Ukrainian society could end up with nothing. Because literally a few days ago, the Supreme Court of Ukraine addressed the Constitutional Court with a desire to abolish the necessary ingredient, an extremely important element without which the fight against corruption is impossible, namely: judicial reform. Let me remind you that the Supreme Court has decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u114	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u115	Parliament has no right to eliminate the higher specialized courts or to force the judges of the Supreme Court to go to transparent, open competitions. I recall that the Constitution explicitly states that it is the law that determines the existence of higher specialized courts. And I will remind the Supreme Court that only one body in this country has the right to enact laws, and this is Parliament. And the Supreme Court knows very well that he's going to break the Constitution, that he's going to break the laws, and he wants to get the Constitutional Court involved in this crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u116	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u117	Which, unfortunately, has already shown by the return of pensions in due course to the judges we have released, that he is a participant in this round of corruption of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u118	Colleagues, it's Sergey Melniczuk, one minute. Then Jegor Sobolev. And let's go to the vote. There'll be a vote in three minutes. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u119	The "will of the people" group will support parliamentary hearings on this subject, but we would like to point out that the entire Ukrainian society is now engulfing itself from the raids, the raids of the business, the raids of private houses. The whole country is actually a total comet of fighting what is called the fight against corruption. And on the other hand, we see that the government is inaction, the police are inaction, the Ukrainian Security Service is inaction. We see how even at the state level Russian mercenaries enter. For example, "Ukratransamak" by Russian citizen Polozosov, is now performing duties, robbing our baby-sitter. The state budget is losing millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars. And that's what they call anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u120	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u121	And anti-corruption workers don't pay attention to that. Therefore, the committee itself should not be called upon by individuals but should work fully in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u122	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev, one minute. In one minute, we move on to making a decision. And I remind you, it's just a draft decision to hold hearings, to approve Parliamentary hearing recommendations. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u123	A few explanations. If Alexandra Kugel or any other national MP has an understanding of where there is corruption in the Council's bill, come. All meetings of our committee are open. We ask businesses, public organizations, journalists to help us find corruption. Today I'm going to propose to the committee to accept the corruption laws of Tetjana Donz, who, in fact, is covering up important information in the officials' declarations. The other one. I remember having four children. Moreover, I began to implement this law long before Parliament. All my property was on the Ukrainian Truth blog in March 2014. I felt no problem with this openness. And there was nothing new about being on the council during that time. I think it's a very important anti-corruption practice when an officer takes office, and society can see if he has any assets added to it. This is very important, and this is the purpose of these open declarations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u124	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u125	And the last. Colleagues, the address was and remains closed. This is my position and the position of the entire committee. Property is, yes, and the exact address of any person is his personal data, so this information will remain closed in all laws. Last one. Mr. Andrey, there's a request to vote on the need to comply with the declaration legislation by 30 October and there's a proposal to erase the shameful practice of spending money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote, Yegor. Dear colleagues, there's a recommendation that we vote a decision without 3 points where it's about printing a collection of materials, because it's a ridiculous waste of paper and it doesn't make any sense. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Resolution on the Approval of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State of Implementation of the Principles of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (No. 5106) with the deletion of the 3rd paragraph of the decree on the printing of these materials on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:02:17]] For 214 Guys, I'm gonna put you on the way back. I'm asking you to come into the hall, please. I'll put you back in. I can see it's not working, I can see it's not all there. Please come into the hall, take your jobs, colleagues. Fellows, invite you to the hall, invite you to the decision-making room. This is a confirmation of the results of the parliamentary hearings, this is just our duty to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the 5106 vote. Please vote and please support the return. Colleagues, one more minute, please. Please vote, please support. [[12:03:16]] For 231 And now, colleagues, I'm putting the vote on the ground and in total, 5106, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[12:03:38]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, one second. Attention! Don't leave the hall, please. We have a draft decree (the following) to mark the 175th anniversary of the founding of the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantis. If there's no one in the room who's going to deny that we're just going to vote. Vote. So I'm putting to the vote the Bill on the 175th anniversary of the founding of the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantis (No.4914) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support me. I think it's a common position for the entire room. [[12:04:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. According to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12.35. I'm asking you very much at 12.35 to gather in the hall in a disciplined manner to continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Time taken for a break is exhausted. I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. Please, come in. Anton Heratchenko and Arthur Palace, if not difficult, come to me while the MPs are meeting. I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall. Heratchenko and Chamberlain, please come to me. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and especially ask Arthur Palatno, now his bill, to enter the hall. Please, colleagues, come in, get ready for work. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda. We're the only ones with some difficulty: the next bill for the authorship of the Chamber of Arthur Leonidovich, he's not in the room right now. And that's why, with your permission, I'm moving on to the next block. If the author and the reporter are in the room, we'll go back to the question. There's no objection, is there? There's an agreement. So I'm going to move on to the next question of the agenda, this is the chapter "for the re-examination of the President's proposals," No.4024. Ukraine Act on Amendments to Appendices 3 and 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the financial provision of compensation for the passage of separate categories of citizens and other statutory benefits, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 04.04. In 2016. Dear colleagues, this issue has a special consideration, it does not provide for a reduced procedure. And so please adjust to the system's work. And I first invite you to the report of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arthur Gerasimov. Mr. Arthur, please report to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 3 and No. 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2016 on financial compensation for the payment of individual categories of citizens and other legal aids (registration No. 4024) cannot be signed by the President in view of the following. The Law, which has been signed, provides for a new subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the provision of utility benefits, other legally prescribed benefits. Reimbursement of the extended passage of individual categories of citizens The distribution of the corresponding subsidy is expected to take place between the district budgets and the budget of the city of Kiev. The Act establishes that the financing of this subsidy will be based on reduced subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heat, water and water supply services, housing and buildings, household waste and sewage. However, it should be noted that such changes pose a risk of underfunding subsidies to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the increase in housing and utility tariffs is not foreseen for the economy under this subsidy in 2016. At the same time, the current year’s housing subsidies may increase from 5 million to 7 million. Thus, the proposed changes will lead to an increase in debt for public services, an increase in social tensions among the population, a balanced state budget that would run counter to Ukraine’s international financial commitment. In addition, today’s system of compensation for the tax expenses of individual categories of citizens is unfortunately not effective. In the absence of a mechanism for the calculation of the charges, any limitation on the quantity, distance and direct travel, it is not possible to control the calculation of the corresponding shipments. In this way, the reimbursement of the expenses for the payment of individual categories of citizens whose implementation is not regulated will result in an ineffective and purposeful use of the budget. Taking into account the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Supplements No. 3 and No. 7 to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2016" on the financial provision of compensation for the payment of individual categories of citizens and others provided for by law, to be rejected. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we have answers to our questions, and I ask you to sign up for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u130	Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u131	First of all, I'd like to welcome my honorary colleague Arthur Gerasimov to the fact that he has a child and, God forbid. [[Applause]] Give God every Ukrainian the opportunity to have children and to live with dignity. And now I have a question for you. You just reported that from 5 million to 7 million there is an increasing demand for housing subsidies from citizens. How do you say to the President, please, do you think it's normal for people to get subsidies instead of getting normal wages and having the opportunity to pay for these salaries and utilities and everything else? I am convinced that this policy of preserving poverty, when everyone is transferred to subsidies, will not give any economic growth or solution to the problem of energy dependence and energy-generating our country. I'd like to hear the President's opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u133	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the key to combating poverty is to create new jobs and introduce decent wages for every working Ukrainian, as well as the introduction of decent pensions and decent social benefits. But at the moment, it's a very difficult period, you know, because of the aggression of the Russian Federation, we have to spend a lot of money on our army, on our defenses, and it's not worth discussing, we have to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our state. But, for the time being, during this difficult period of subsidies, there are and are designed to ensure that every family that today needs protection from a situation where more determined percentages will be municipal payments is entitled to receive this grant today. But strategically, in terms of strategic planning, we really have our full attention to creating new jobs and decent wages for Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Next question, please, People's Deputy Rybchin, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u135	Rybchin, Fatherland, Donetskin. Please pass the word to Mr. Oderchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u136	National Deputy Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! We have a clear statement in the Budget Code that the State budget should grant subsidies to local budgets to compensate for the debt passage in transport. By law, we guaranteed individual citizens this tax shipment. And the bill he passed doesn't create any new benefits; he just finances what was promised by the state. You're up now. The president is now motivated by the lack of money because he is. Well, he does. I think there's too much money on the grant. Too much money is spent on subsidies. And really, 9 million households are almost two thirds of the population need subsidies. Don't you think it's right that it's better to have a deofshorization, a proper tax. Dividends and give citizens the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u138	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u139	This is especially important now in the context of the so - called unification of the territorial communities, when villages from the center of the united community are within 30 to 40 kilometers. Failure to enact this law is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u140	Thank you. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. I can tell you right now that this isn't about the budget subsidy you just talked about. Indeed, in 2016, the provision of a range of appropriate benefits is to be made at the expense of the state budget, which is included in the budget programme "Finetime Money Assistance to War veterans and victims of Nazi persecution" and "Social Assistance to Persons with Special Earnings to the Father". And I can tell you that the authorities of local self-government, in approving local budgets for 2016, have taken into account the cost of compensation for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. For example, the city of Hmelnicki – almost 26 million gravel, Žitomir – almost 3 million gravel, Ivano-Frankivsk – almost 22 million gravel. So this is a question that is unrelated. What about your question of uniting the territorial communities? I can immediately say that the President's policy, which fully supports the processes of decentralization, especially financial decentralization, has already led to the majority of local budgets. Almost all the local budgets in the country were received as unheard-of as for them, for city mayors, for district managers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u142	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u143	Development budgets. Hence, these things help local communities to develop their own funds that they do not need to go to Kiev and that they can distribute locally according to what they consider to be a priority for their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u144	Thank you. And the final question is the People's Deputy of Lensky, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u145	Please pass it on to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u146	Please, National Deputy Andriy Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u147	Thank you. Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I wanted to address you as the representative of the President in Parliament, because yesterday's events have already been baptized as "black Tuesday" for the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate. But so far there has been no reaction to this superior leadership of the state, including the President. The decision of the Moscow District Court will now be eliminated and abolished at the expense of the Ukrainian community of the Church's Holy Trinity, the Ukrainian temple in the Noginsk Moscow region will be abolished at the request of the Noggin Authority. To stop a person from speaking to God in his own language is a last resort. And when our Ukrainian community is so openly defeated abroad, why is there no reaction? Just like the already closed Ukrainian Library in Moscow, just as they want to close the Ukrainian Cultural Center in Arbat. Let's protect the Ukrainians wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u148	Thank you. You can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I fully support the position of the National Deputy of Lozov, who shows Ukrainian -- I mean the Ukrainian Library, the Ukrainian Cultural Center -- our fellow countrymen need to be protected, not just in the Russian Federation, but around the world. This time. And secondly, I would like to say that today is our colleague Lensky's speech, which, among other things, said about the bill where we are co-authors with you, which is exactly what this is about. So in my answer, I would also ask all my colleagues to get together and, once this bill is put into the room, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u150	Thank you. I now invite you to the committee's report on the budget of Kulichenk Ivan Ivanovich, a national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u151	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to remind you that the law was passed by the Supreme Council on February 18th of this year, and on February 23rd it is directed to the President's signature. The president returned the law for his reexamined with his proposals for a rejection that came to the Supreme Council on April 5. The main scientific and expert office pointed out that, if the law was rejected, the situation of financial compensation for the tax passage of individual categories of citizens and other statutory benefits would remain unregulated for an indefinite period, which would create risks in the State's social security system. At the same time, the President of Ukraine does not propose solutions to the issue of social security in the legislation that has been violated, which calls into question his proposal to reject the law. In short, the State’s benefits now lie in funding the local budgets where they are. The committee has dealt with this issue in an arduous manner and has on more than one occasion decided to reject the law on financial compensation for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens and other legislative aids. It is then proposed to acknowledge the President's proposals for Law No. 4024 directly at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u152	Thank you. Please remain in place to answer your questions. Please record for questions. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy Yuri Odarchenka, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u153	I want you to make it clear again that people will hear. Right now, everyone understands that the President's veto has lifted the benefits of passing people for the benefit categories of citizens. I want all citizens to hear the absolutely clear truth that the President of his veto has repealed the Ukrainian Law, which gives citizens the right to be transported in debt. Please confirm that these benefits have been placed on local budgets? The president claimed that local budgets had increased by six times, and we see that in the 17th year budget, they had been increased by just 30 percent, and that they had been invested in health finance and energy, and energy in education, and also in debt transport. Is it not simply a conscious genocide of the rural population, when people with modest pensions will not even be able to reach the hospital now?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u154	Thank you. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u155	No, the president didn't cancel, he promised a law that had been passed on to the members of the Supreme Council to redistribute from one of the benefits to the benefits of transportation. As a result, the benefits remain and local budgets have the right to finance them, and most local budgets finance them this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u156	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies, Mr. Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Respectable listeners, respected citizens, what bill is currently under discussion in the plenary room? A number of deputies, in particular from the coalition, have registered a bill of 4024 on the transfer of 1.9 billion grevens from an article intended to reimburse citizens of socially unprotected sections of the population under the HKC housing and utility tariffs for extended travel to other categories of citizens. But I have a question. What kind of cynical discussion is going on? Both articles are important because they are designed for socially unprotected groups. I have a personal question for you, and will you be voting on Bill 5217 tomorrow, when you're allocating 7 billion to the defense, instead of sending that money to the social protection of the socially vulnerable, and now you're talking about the genocide of the rural population? This policy does not lead to the genocide of the rural population, but rather to the genocide of the Ukrainian people, since some 9 million have the right to benefits, it shows that they have a poverty level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u159	I will report to you the decision of the President's veto committee under the law voted by this Supreme Council. And if I vote tomorrow, I can't tell you yet. I think that defense issues are as important today as the benefits. And these funds weren't offered for the benefits, they were offered for the regional development fund. Hence, these questions are unrelated and have no bearing on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u160	Thank you. And the final question is the national MP, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u161	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear John Ivanovich, I wanted us to consult in the hall right now and to have the presidency also, the Supreme Council, listen to us. What are we talking about? Let's speak, however, that the President, without proposing any changes to this law, no suggestions, he's proposing to reject it. The bill foresees that subsidies should be transferred to local budgets in order to compensate and fund the travel allowance for those population categories eligible for such benefits. We now see a half-empty hall, we understand that there are not physically 300 deputies here who can vote in favour of the veto, and that's exactly what the law provides for: the need for the veto and the need for 300 votes. Offer. And say your opinion, maybe we should postpone the vote on the day that there are votes in the room, like tomorrow? Come on, or we'll blow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u163	As for when I vote, I don't answer the question. But when we talk about the benefits, as housing benefits, the connections, they are calculated for every person and have a measure and financial responsibility, the benefits of transportation are not fixed: you want to go a hundred times, you want to eat once, and the extent to which you need to finance, we do not decide. The question now is that the funding of the benefits, if you cancel the law, is not entirely out of the state budget. And the benefits are set by the state budget. Ivan Ivanovich, you were with me at the Committee on Budgets. Long disputes have not found a solution because it does not add funds. And I offered the committee to identify the hall. I agree with you. It is better to vote when there are enough deputies in the room to make an effective decision. He won't be here now, at least otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-05-m0.u164	Thank you, fellows of honor! In the hall, a number of people raise rivers. I would like to point out that there is no chapter in this discussion of the regulation on "Factions Steps." When we go in a reduced procedure, two to two, I give all the factions. But this procedure, which I have detailed, provides for a report, answers to questions, reports, and answers. And then vote on the President's proposals in all order. I, my colleagues, try to uphold the principle of justice. And that's why I can't go beyond the offer. Right now, we have to move on to the vote of all the President's proposals that are defined. So I want to emphasize to you, the first is to reject the law. It takes 226 votes. Another is to overcome the President's veto. We need 300 votes. And the third is to send it to the committee without further ado. All three proposals will now be put to the vote. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. No fractions are allowed on this question. Dear colleagues! I'll bet the voting on all the proposals in a step-by-step. The first sentence is to reject the law. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:06:06]] For-95 The next is to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:06:28]] For 131 The decision is not made. And the last thing is to send him to the committee for work. Two hundred and twenty-six votes, colleagues. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, send it to the committee for further work. Please vote. [[13:06:56]] For-170. The decision is not taken in all three ballots. Let me show you through the factions. The bill is not accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we finished the vote. We don't have a section on motive, we can talk about it in the next bill. Colleagues, we can talk about this in the next. Colleagues, the law is rejected. Look closely. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. We have the next draft of the same plan. 1076, "To amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the realization of housing rights of residents of hostels." But I have a request from the committee to move it and it is supported by the President's Representative in Parliament. The committee's asking for a transfer to determine the position of the committee, and so we're transferring this bill at the initiative of the authors. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Boys, 1076 you are. If the drafter asks for a transfer, I can't put him to the vote, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the President's representative agrees with the committee's position to transpose the bill, colleagues. I think this should be our common position of solidarity. Also, colleagues, I want to let you know that this was actually the last draft of the agenda, we had to draft a draft of the mediation bill that the drafter asked the bill to withdraw. And so what I want to tell you is that we've been through all the bills of order intensively. It was a very successful work of Parliament, and we were able to run out of all daytime work, colleagues. I think that's a positive result of our work and our form of doing the job. I would also like to welcome the Health Committee, for which there were two important bills, they were adopted. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, our appeals were of great importance. And tomorrow we will continue this part and this practice. And, fellows, congratulations on exhausting the agenda. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I want fruitful committee work, I want fruitful work to discuss important issues. Tomorrow will be an important day. At 10 a.m., we'll start our meeting. And I invite all colleagues at 10 a.m. to come to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
