ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. On the eve of the opening of the next session, please enter the hall solemnly and demonstrate discipline at the opening of the session. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask that you inform the MP that in two minutes our work will begin. Anyone who can hear me in the towers, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Please, Your Honor, let's clear our seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[16:11:06]] Honorary colleagues, national deputies, have registered 354 Ukrainian national deputies. I would like to inform you that there is a colleague, a head of the Bundestag Committee on the affairs of the European Union, Gunter Krichbaum. Let us welcome him and his fellow members of the Bundestag. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues of the National MPs, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, attend the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsen Petrovich Yacenuk and members of the government. [[Applause]] The heads of the central executive branch, the heads of the judicial branch, the officials elected and appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the appointment of representatives of public organizations and the media, other officials. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine and Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion was declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u3	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u4	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, we are to form an order with you on the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. And there is a proposal to vote on the harmonized draft order of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call (registration number 3855) with inclusion. Attention! It has all the projects registered at the time of the decision and support and proposals of the committees presented in the Appendices: Appendix 1, Appendix 2 and Appendix 3. Appropriately, those bills that the committees have tabled for expulsion, if their authors believe that this law should remain in order of the day, you simply inform today or tomorrow and it will be. And he'll stay in line for the day session. Please, Oleg Lazko, one minute in a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u5	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, you've just given the deputies the order of the day session. Colleagues, take note of draft Appendix 1: "A list of bills that have lost their relevance and are proposed for rejection." So let's look at the list that, in the opinion of those who made up this project, is a list that's out of date. 3306 is a project called the Naftogazu Elimination Order. Project Laszka. 3307 is a project that prohibits entities from issuing unconfirmed debts for electricity and water supply. 3386 is about revoking the powers of the non-president. 2278 is a draft law on the interim commission of inquiry for the removal of the President in the order of impeachment. 3308 – on parliamentary control over the activities of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. I understand that these bills have never been or are not relevant to you. But for millions of people who pay excessive tariffs, they pay for corruption, they're relevant. So we demand that they be included in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u6	Look, if only. No, stop. Stop. It's a committee submission. But if you'd been very careful, I said before that the author disagrees with that. He simply confirms in writing that this should remain in order of the day, it will remain – that was my proposal. So any law that the author thinks is going to stay in order of the day, you're going to officially write it all down. Why not? Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u7	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I don't know about other committees, I'm a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Our bills seem to have been submitted by the committee on all lists, and on exception, and those that have become obsolete. At the same time, our committee has never considered the issue of laws that should be rejected without consideration that have lost any relevance to such decisions. So I ask, please, the general system we've always had what, those bills that were registered at the time of the opening of the session should be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u8	That's exactly what I said, but in Appendix Three, there's a list of laws that the committees may not be relevant to. But if the author of the law thinks he should be left behind, you will simply give written confirmation. We have a few thousand laws that just distract the apparatus, the deputies, the committees and everything. If. I'm stressing that if you think that one or the other law should stay, let's leave it. I don't have any objections. Just write it down as the author of the law, and it'll stay. So basically, all the laws that. Registered for the moment. Attention! All the laws that are currently registered are included in the agenda, and we can look separately at the additions to the loss of relevance later. It's a deal. Then let's put it this way, all the laws that are now registered we're putting into the order of the day session, and we're going to have another discussion. Yesterday, in the order of the day, more faithfully, on the Conciliation Board, such an offer was made with three supplements. Without plugins, then we include in the agenda all the laws that are registered, and we exclude nothing. All registered. That can't be true: one is there and one is on the other. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u9	Mr. Head, this is about the first appendix, so I understand where there are any warnings about those who are defined as having lost their relevance. But another supplement, where, for example, the bills that are provided for under the Rules of Procedure Act are proposed to be rejected should be abandoned because it is a requirement of law, not our ghost. What is involved in the law should be left behind, and what needs to be discussed should then be postponed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, we have no objections under Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 only under Appendix 1. So I would suggest that Appendix 1 be removed now from consideration at all, that we approve the agenda with all the laws currently registered, including Appendix 2 and Appendix 3, and that we adopt the agenda of the session. A normal offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] They're staying, they're registered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it, yeah, yeah. Appendix 1 tells us to rule them out, these committees, as opposed. Since we will not vote on Appendix 1, the laws that are defined in it will be included in the agenda of the day session. Is it accepted? With the laws that are registered to this day. This is the proposal, Appendix 2 Appendix 3, I'm voting. Please support all colleagues in the agenda. Again, do you copy? Vote, please form, everyone, all of them, all of them registered. They'll be automatically included anyway. Please vote. [[16:21:55]] For 196 Almost. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, distinguished fellow members of the National MP. These are the laws of all factions. Please, we're taking our seats. Ready, colleagues, to vote? Colleagues, I ask you to vote for the approval of the agenda according to the proposal I made under the transcript. Ready? All registered. We can't limit anyone. Vote, colleagues, I ask everyone to support my offer. Please vote, let's do it again. [[16:23:10]] For 197 Colleagues, we will return to this proposal. We're starting a day-to-day discussion. First reading. Please, the draft Act (Registration No. 2095) amending the Employment Act of Ukraine (for further guarantees to facilitate the employment of members of the armed forces). Report by Igor Vasilovich Vasjunik. Please, 2095.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the author of the bill to consider a reduced procedure. And I ask my colleagues to take up jobs and support the position of the author of the bill. Can we vote? I'm betting on a motion for a vote, a consideration of the reduced procedure of Bill 2095a. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[16:24:31]] For-137 There is no support in the hall for a reduced procedure. A full discussion room is required. Again, right? Let's do it again, then I'm asking you to come to the workplace, get ready for the vote. Ready? Can I put it this way:? I'm once again proposing a simplified procedure for Bill 2095a: amending the Employment of the Population Act on additional guarantees to facilitate the employment of participants in hostilities. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[16:25:34]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilovich Igor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u12	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich! Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! For over a year now, Lviv has been working as a legal aid centre for ATO participants. During this time, about 2,000 military and family members of the center were turned to the center. They address many, many questions, questions about the status of a participant in combat. And one of the biggest problems that sounds like meeting with the military is the employment of the demobilized, returning from the ATO. Therefore, in order to provide additional guarantees for the employment of the participants involved in the actions of the ATO, they were granted the status of a participant in the fighting and were released from the military service, it is proposed to supplement the current Ukrainian Employment Act with a standard according to which additional guarantees for the promotion of employment are extended to participants in hostilities. It is also worth noting that during the discussion of the bill in the committee and in the conclusion of the Chief Executive, it was noted that it was necessary to clarify that the proposed standards should extend only to citizens who participated in the Anti-Terrorism Operation and who were granted the status of an ATO participant. I mean, the second reading will be amended accordingly, so I would like to support this bill in the first reading and provide additional guarantees for the employment of ATO participants involved in the anti-terror operation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u13	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u14	At its meeting on 9 December 2015, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, discussed the bill. The committee supported the author's proposal to include in the list a category of citizens who have additional guarantees to promote employment, participants in combat activities, which are covered by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. This rule will encourage employers to take part in hostilities, since if such a person is employed by the employment centres, employers will be compensated for the actual cost of a single social insurance contribution for such a person every month during the year. At the same time, and as the author of the law, the draft law, has already said, the committee considers it necessary to make the following observations. The author’s editing needs to be further developed in order to clarify the category of persons who receive guarantees. Today, according to legislation, members of hostilities are persons who have engaged in hostilities, the protection of the Fatherland in military units, mergers, unifications, all types and families of the Armed Forces, the active army, the fleet, guerrilla forces, and the underground and other formations of war and peacetime. This is a period of the Great National War, the Red Army, Afghanistan, fighting in other countries, as well as protecting independence, sovereignty, Ukraine's notarial integrity during the ATO period. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus made the same comments. In view of the above, the Committee supports the project and suggests that you support it as a basis for the second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Please record. People's Front, no, first the Radical Party, Lensky. Okay. The vine, Andrey Lozova. Put the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u16	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, the way that in our country today we're not provided with everything that's necessary and most important -- everything they deserve, ATO veterans in the war that's going on, because it's not an ATO, it's a full-scale war, and we have to be honest with ourselves at least, it's only possible to compare it, as in Germany from the Weimar Republic, when the veterans of World War I were not needed, they came back from the front and couldn't find themselves in life. And what it ended up like in Germany and what it cost the whole world -- we all remember. This should never be allowed to happen in Ukraine. Those who have gone through the front and who are returning from it should thank God for coming back alive at least, even if injured, they should have the greatest respect for society and the greatest benefits. And when, correctly, colleague Vasjunik says that it is necessary to stimulate those who are willing to employ ATO veterans in all possible ways. And when we, in fact, have the greatest unemployment in 25 years and even the heroes of the front who often come back without an arm, without a leg, without an eye, often with a crippled psyche, surviving such a hell of a time, seeing their brothers' bodies torn apart, what, they didn't deserve the state to stop their employment? It should be a shame for every MP in this room who won't support this law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u17	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Wesselova Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will certainly support this bill, as will any other initiative aimed at the social protection of ATO soldiers. But let us be honest that this legislative initiative will not have a major impact on a situation that will not change the employer’s philosophy. The government and parliament need a lot of work together to create a really complex system of support for our defenders: rehabilitation centers, employment programs, and many other things that can bring our ATO soldiers back to peaceful life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u19	Thank you. Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u20	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Alona Skrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u21	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, let's read the bill very carefully, not just speak nicely from the rostrum. This is not just about encouraging entrepreneurs to take part in the work of ATO participants or participants in hostilities, as I think is wrong, but about the individual responsibility of enterprises, institutions, organizations with more than 20 employees to set a quota of 5 percent of the average number of employees in the previous calendar year. I mean, I don't think we can go through any kind of compulsion, so that businesses and institutions can take on combat actors, there's a complex problem here, complex rehabilitation systems, state rehabilitation programs, adaptation of ATO participants and participants in combat, and stimulating business to involve them. But the duty, well, I'm sorry, is a Soviet period. Well, apart from the second reading, of course, Fatherland won't be able to vote unless the term is corrected. "Fighters" is a very broad term, and we need to correct it to "ATO participants," as the committee head has already pointed out. Well, in addition, all the problems of social rehabilitation, adaptation, business learning and any specialization are now being taken over by social groups and organizations. We have no such program in our country, and we turn to the government on the other hand to ensure that such a program is bugged and worked. As an example, you can take, for example, a famous business incubator for the disabled and veterans of the ATO, where participants undergo psychological adaptation, knowledge from business theory, develop business plans, and so forth, all of which are now done by volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u22	Petra Dustenka's Block, Oxana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the author of the bill, the committee and the committee on veterans and participants in the ATO for our consideration of these issues today and those that have been discussed this morning and now. At the same time, I want to say that the bill that we're looking at is totally not in line with what we talked about in the rostrum. I want to support Alona Skrum. Because in fact, what we're creating, we're creating another fund, today there's a fund of people with disabilities, when we're forced to create jobs, they're actually just taking extra fines, extra wages from employers in an incomprehensible institution. But no disabled people today are protected from the loss and absence of a job, nor will this bill really help veterans and participants in an anti-terror operation. We need to make and provide you with a system when those who came from the front are able, firstly, to adapt, secondly, to get requalified, if necessary. This bill does only one thing, makes Ukrainian goods more expensive, expensive Ukrainian services and increases prices for goods of Ukrainian production. So I propose that this bill should still be sent to read again and only on the committee of his, re-reading, and only on the committee to rework it. Why do I suggest we send it back first? Because this project actually changes only one article of the Employment Act. It is not possible to process it effectively with the help of ATO participants until the second reading. So I propose to re-read the committee's first reading, and the entire room supports this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u24	Please, Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u25	Thank you. You know, every time you read a bill, you should actually go to the essence of this bill and see how effective it is, first, and secondly, how moral it is in terms of the duties of the state. And look what's going on with this law. We have a state as an employer in budgetary institutions, in enterprises of state-owned property, incubators and others. You know, budget quotas, state-owned enterprises and casinos, they're excluded from this law at all. So in fact, the state refused to employ this category of people and dropped these functions on private enterprises. There's no incentive payments. Dear colleagues, you can't do that. Military taxes were dropped on people. Now employment under this law has been reinstated into the public sector again, and the state has no obligation. You can't do that, you can't vote this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u26	Thank you. In order for us to take a constructive position, I will give the floor to the head of the Committee, Alexander Trelyakow, and then I will give the author the floor. Please, Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u27	I would like to say that this bill has not been considered at all by our ATO Committee. Therefore, I would really support Oxana Prodana to vote for the re-reading, ask the secretariat of Parliament to sign the bill on the committee and so that we can finalize it on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u28	Thank you. I am the author of the Vasjunika bill, and there is a suggestion to return to the first reading. And so I'd like you to tell me in your statement what your view of what proposals we're about to make now, of course, according to the Rules, but do you agree with the proposal made by the representatives of the Peter Prashenko Block. Please turn on the microphone. Igor Vasjunik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Frankly, I don't understand colleague Oxana sold. I understand that the opposition doesn't support the ATOs, and I understand that, but why my coalition colleagues don't support this bill, it's very strange for me. I often communicate with the military because, I repeat, I created the center of the participants. Some 2,000 ATO participants and their families benefited from the aid. The problem of employment is one of the biggest problems, if we give them the opportunity to work, they stay near a broken trough, people have no place to work and pay, they're invited by criminal groups. In this way, the criminal situation in the country may increase. We have to protect the boys and give them a job opportunity. I see no problem with the adoption of this law, except for the amendment that the committee head said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Replica, named Oksana Prodan, is entitled to the Replica Rules and please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey. I want to explain my position again. This bill enhances the cost of Ukrainian production, but it does not protect the veterans and participants of the ATO in any way. Explain why. Just here, from the microphone stand, was the talk of those who are now employed by former ATO military and veterans. They are already being employed without an additional State obligation. And that's right. And so it should be. The state should promote, reduce the EU's GDP and lower the VAT. Provide some additional conditions for those employers who help ATO participants. But to force the employer not to participate in the ATO, but to pay the state fines for nonemployment, we have no right to do so, for it is not about them, not about the participants in the ATO, which is fame and praise, and give them health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put both motions for an emergency vote. And take the basis as suggested by the committee, and return to the first reading or subject of the legislative initiative. How much better? First-reading committee. Colleagues, but I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Let's get Masorin or Dennis. Dennis. One minute until they enter the Chamber. Turn on Dennis' microphone. Fellow MPs, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to two questions. First of all, this is the mandate of the Committee for Social Policy, Employment and Retirement. Because the draft law amends the Employment Act, which is the first. The other one. This is certainly a difficult question for today's day of employment for any person because there are only 28,000 vacancies in the market. And so we ask you very much to support the participants in the fighting that were at the ATO today and yesterday. And the People's Front will vote in favour. And then, we're going to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, there is indeed a first and second reading so that we can work out and find compromise. And so I'm going to put in sequence the proposals that came under that bill, and I don't want us to lose it, and it's even symbolically going to be wrong. And so I'm going to put one and the other proposals to a vote, and the one that gets the majority, I'm going to put it to a vote. Everybody in the hall? Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? So I'm going to make the first offer. Proposal by the committee for a bill amending the Ukrainian Employment Act (for additional guarantees to facilitate the employment of participants in hostilities), (number 2095a) as a basis. Signal vote. Vote please, colleagues. 2095 – signal vote. [[16:43:12]] For a hundred and Second sentence: For re-reading the bill to the committee (number 2095a). The signal vote for re-reading 2095a. Please vote. [[16:43:44]] For 215 Dear colleagues, the second proposal has raised more support. Mr. Igor, you don't mind if I re-read the committee. The author of the bill allows us to develop so that we don't lose the bill, I ask my colleagues very much to take up jobs. And I'm going to put that proposal that I took most in the room to the vote. But I very much ask you to pay attention and take part in the vote, not to come out of the hall, but to come into the hall. So once again, I'm going to put a signal vote, and I'm going to go back to re-reading the bill number 2095a. The signal vote, please vote, please support the replay of the first reading of 2095a. Please vote. [[16:44:49]] For 221 I'm just asking for your attention, please. Oleg Lightman one minute, please. Please come into the hall, company, call a colleague and come into the hall. One minute while the MPs are on their way. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u35	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, I'd like a moment's attention, an extremely important piece of information. Read the name of the law that some of you do not know how to read about the employment of those involved in combat. The boys on the front are fighting, going back and not having a job, and you can't vote the law to give them a job. Do you want them to come to you for work? And the second. To start a session with a law that doesn't vote five times, that's a bad adjective, that's the whole session you're going to be suffering. So I would like to immediately vote on this law, allow the participants to fight for you, including blood, so that they can work at least for a copy job. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u36	So, we're in the hall, I'm not putting on a signal anymore, I'm putting on a full vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act on additional guarantees for the promotion and employment of participants in hostilities, number 2095a. Return to the first reading committee, to the first reading again. Oleg, I've put the bill to a vote, this proposal has a chance to take the majority, the bill's author agrees. So I ask you to re-read the committee's first reading, please support me, please vote. Colleagues, we vote that we don't lose the bill at all. [[16:46:59]] For 242 Decision taken. I'm very counting and I'm stressing the secretariat to be the right committee schedule. I would ask you quickly to prepare this bill for reconsideration so that we can consider it and support our fighters. On a day-to-day basis, we continue to have decisions, a number of draft decisions, not conflict-proof, non-negotiable. And we are moving on to the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings in 2016 on "The Ways of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine in the Conditions of Decentralisation of Power", number 2014. There is a suggestion to consider it in a simplified manner, society, read this technical matter of assigning parliamentary hearings. So I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please, 2014, summary procedure, vote. [[16:48:28]] For 193 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u37	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would like to present the stated decision as coauthor, as well as the position of our committee. Regrettably, there has been a critical situation in the country regarding financing in the field of physical culture and sports. In particular, the strategic negative dynamics of reducing children's sports schools. According to the Statistical Committee on Optimization of Sports Schools, 47 sports schools and more than 18,000 students were lost from 1 January to 1 November 2015, despite subsidies to local budgets of over 100 million dollars. This year such a subsidy is, unfortunately, not yet foreseen. As a result of the underfunding of physical culture and sports, nearly 20 Olympics have left Ukraine today. What are the achievements of the Olympic Games this year? European and World Championships. In order to overcome these negative trends and situations in the area of physical culture and sport, effective measures are urgently needed to support children's sports schools and mass sports. In view of the state of implementation of State policy in the field of physical culture and sport, the development and adoption of recommendations to public authorities and local self-government bodies on improving the legislative provision of physical culture and sport, the Committee proposes to hold hearings in Parliament on the theme "The ways of developing physical culture and sport in conditions of decentralization of power" on 2 March 2016. I would like the entire session room to support these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, we don't have an imposition, this date is entirely suitable for hearing. Can I count on the fact that we're not having a discussion on this issue, but we're going to vote. Wise. So I ask you to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs, and to prepare for the vote, colleagues. I'll bet. Society, this is 2016. [[B in m in s a l in]] If I start the discussion now, 12 minutes. That's 12 minutes, guys! So I ask my colleagues to vote. I will be the first to vote in favour of the draft decree on parliamentary hearings in 2016 on the theme "The ways of developing physical culture and sports in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization of power" (number 2014). On the basis and in general, a signal vote. Please vote. [[16:51:52]] For 240 There's potential in the room. Dear colleagues, the text says "2015." These are technical remedies that we're going to technically correct. But now for the transcript, I say that in the text we tie to the title of the date and I ask to vote in favour of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings in the 16th Year on "The Challenges of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power" (No 2014). On the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[16:52:54]] For 239. Decision taken. The next decision is similar to that of holding parliamentary hearings on "The development of the tourism industry as a tool for economic development and the investment attractiveness of Ukraine" (number 2861). And there is a request: to vote in favour of the simplified procedure. Please provide a summary of the procedure. Short-term procedure. [[16:53:33]] For-195 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National MP, Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna, please, as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, your consideration is about the parliamentary hearings on "The development of the tourism industry as a tool for economic development and the investment appeal of Ukraine." It's not a secret that many of the world's developed countries are now just focusing on tourism as a significant factor in the country's economic attractiveness and how it can contribute billions of dollars to the country's economy. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a coherent national tourism strategy in Ukraine. And I don't care if the bracelet has devaluation and aliens, more than ever, have been able to relax and travel Ukraine, since 2014, we have had a fall in tourists coming to our country. This is due to their inherent fear and belief that war is taking place throughout the country. Today we are losing, we are losing billions of dollars in the economy of Ukraine because we are not rolling Ukraine as a tourist state. Someone might say that if there is a military conflict in the country, why develop tourism? To what can we say that countries such as Israel are constantly. With a constant military conflict, they spend a lot of budget money, which is estimated to be millions of dollars to develop tourism. So I am very much asking to support the holding of parliamentary hearings on such an important April 6 issue for Ukraine, just at the beginning of the tourist season, so that we can prepare ourselves in a coherent manner, we begin to develop a tourism strategy for Ukraine, as well as a new edition of the Ukrainian Tourism Act. And I would also like to support this decision with such technical remedies. This is due to the fact that we did not vote in the previous session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u40	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u41	We wanted such parliamentary hearings to be important last year, but this question was not raised at the last session. That's why the technical amendment: in the second paragraph of the draft, the decision to replace the words "from September 1, 2015" with the words "March 1, 2016." So I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u42	Thank you. Please tell me, is there a need for a report, Arthur Leonidovich? There's no need, is there, a report? Can we vote? Oh, he's asking for a co-reporter. Please, Chamber Arthur Leonidovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee at its meeting discussed the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine", submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Romanova, Silantiev, Petrenko, Tomenko and others. The Committee supports the holding of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 April 2016 on this important issue. Tourism is one of the most dynamic economic spheres in most countries of the world. In Ukraine tourism needs much more attention from the authorities. Members of the committee took many steps to support the development of domestic tourism. And the question of holding these parliamentary hearings arose at the request of the public. We cannot be satisfied with the current level of this directly in Ukraine. In view of the above-mentioned committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited to adopt a draft decision on the basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u44	Thank you. We will listen to Arthur Leonidovich, whose advice is wise: to accept as a foundation and as a whole. I'm asking my colleagues to take up jobs, go into the hall, get ready to vote. And I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings (number 2861). Signal vote, please vote 2861. Vote. [[16:58:16]] For 229 The hall is mobilized and organized, and we can go to full voting. Please, who has not been able to enter the hall, there are literally a few votes of advantage. And I'm putting together a bill for parliamentary hearings on "Development of the tourism industry as a tool for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine", number 2861, with an amendment that was made by Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna from the roman's rostrum, to vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general, we vote on the colleagues. [[16:59:08]] For 237 Decision taken. And let's move on to the last decision in this chapter. It's a draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in the 16th year. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please vote, support the reduced procedure, please don't leave the hall. For the summary procedure, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:59:48]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed and prepared a decision in conjunction with the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, which includes 72 memorial dates and Jubilee, of which 13 events were known in Ukraine, 56 were outstanding personalities, and 3 days of tribulation and memory. I would like to stress the criteria that we have followed in accordance with the President's decree. All of these dates begin to date from 50 years, historical events and organizations of institutions are celebrated with a 25-year-old anniversary, which is 50-75 years, 100-125 years. The Jubilee of Eminent People is celebrated with a 10-year-old anniversary, that's 50, 60, 70 and 80. The setting up of the annual calendar observance and the festive years is not part of the Supreme Council’s mandate but is part of the President’s authority. In general, you have a list approved by the committee. There are a few additions that I want to make out of the voice. First. It's Yuri Illenka's birthday. The decree states one date that was specified in his passport, but he was actually born on May 9. So this change would have to be added. I would ask for an exception to add a two-year anniversary of the Crimean Tatar rally in Simferopol and a declaration of Ukraine's territorial integrity from the voice. And then a decree was made to set up a special day so that we could now allow the Crimean Tatars to conduct appropriate measures in Kiev. According to a letter from the Committee on Education and Science headed by Ms. Lilia Greenevich, I would like to add: 100-year anniversary of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences; 100-year anniversary of the National Institute of Agricultural Sciences of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences and 150-years since the birth of Professor Frankfurt, and 440-years since the establishment of the first higher education facility in Eastern Europe of the Ostrogen Academy, 100-years from the date of the establishment of higher female courses in Katerinoslav, it is now the Dnipropetrov Medical Academy; 100 years since the opening of the Czernigov University of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u46	Please let me finish for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u47	100 years since the opening of the Chernigiv Peduniversity and 70 years since the founding of the Design Bureau under Antonov. There was a whole series of other decisions, but where 75 years, even where they're respected people like Bogdan Stupka, John Mikolaychuk, or 175 years, we didn't include Michael Dragomanov, because that doesn't meet the valid criteria. Another part of the memorable dates, such as 400 years since the first mention of Uman or the Jubilee of Frank or Dedeulin, who submitted the deputies to the general list. Thank you. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a broader question, it's complex, I see there's a need for discussion. And so please, fellow MPs, sign in two for two, two against. Please record. Okay. Please, Macola Roman Mikolaiovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u49	Please pass the word to Spermakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, there is also a proposal from the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction to make a decree of the Supreme Council marking the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Luhana National University of Taras Shevchenk. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that really 95 years is not 100 years old. But the situation now in which Taras Shevchenk, the National University of Luhansk, is there every year in five years. So there's a proposal to step away from tradition and include it also in. because of this determination. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u51	Thank you. Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u52	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I think that now, when we vote, the MPs in the room are going to press the red buttons that the vats, those who don't understand that we're suffering too much and now, including because we don't know our history, we don't want to know or remember. The great philosopher Carlo Santajana once spoke of those who do not remember their origins as not growing into their future. Therefore, I would like to support you together with the amendments that the head of the Knieżicki committee has brought out of the voice. First of all, the celebration of the Crimean Tatar rally, which will forever enter the new Ukrainian history as a symbol that the Crimean Tatars are part of the great Ukrainian nation. And that these are the patriots of the only constituency of Ukraine, unlike the pro-Russian population of Crimea, who betrayed the state in which they received their pension. and lived, and sold to the invaders. And including the rights of Colleague Spiovakovsky, who, because of the situation that arose in the country, is absolutely relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee carried out a great deal of work. There is still a need for discussion. Please, Oles Long. Or Litwin? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u54	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter! There were draft decrees on the 70th anniversary of the University of Kiev. It's a very nice college with a nice base, a lot of made-up and high-quality specialist training. I don't think this date was accounted for by a lack of time, and I would ask if I could count. And plus one more moment: in 2016, 80 years will be completed by the Institute of History of Ukraine, which has done a lot in terms of scientific research and is now working on this synthetic history of the Ukrainian people. And it would be good if we supported these dates by our determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u55	Thank you. Colleagues, there's going to be a vote and I'm asking you to come into the hall. As the deputies enter, please turn on the microphone for the head of the committee of Mikli Knieżick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u56	Thank you. I would like, Sir Volodymyr, to say that we have included the dates recommended by the Committee on Science and Education. But I support you, although it's true, in this case, it doesn't exactly fit our criteria. Do you understand? As we said, we include: 25 years of institutions and organizations and 10 years of human life. So it's not a multiple here. The only thing I wanted to tell you is that I'd like to support my colleague Spiowakovsky, because really, for the Crimean organizations, and for those people, organizations that come from occupied territories, we're making exceptions to support them. But I think we're going to do it on the right level, we just can't get out of the criteria that we had, because then your other colleagues and my colleagues will start asking questions like Mr. Mikola Tomenko, why aren't we celebrating the Jubilee of Dragomanov? It should be celebrated, but it does not fall under these criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u57	Mr. Mikola, if you don't want to be in the confusion room, please vote for the transcript, because we vote for the basis and in general, the amendments that are are being introduced into the body of the law to be voted with. Turn on the microphone again, I'm going to ask you to do these changes simply by sounding or calling for a stenogram. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u58	Thank you. So wait. The following amendments are proposed: the birthday of Yuri Illenka – May 9; February 26 – two years since the Crimean Tatar rally in Crimea to support Ukraine's territorial integrity; the amendments made by the Science Committee, particularly 400 years since the establishment of the Ostrov Academy; 100 years since the establishment of higher female courses; 100 years since the opening of the Montenegrin Institute of Education; and 70 years since the founding of the Antonov Construction Office. Although, really, we didn't include it under the same criteria that Mr. Vladimir was speaking about, I think. From this we leave 100 years since the establishment of the Higher Women's Courses and 100 years since the opening of the Czernigian Institute of Education, as well as the amendments that I have heard from the Education Committee. Now, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u59	Mr. Oleg, there's been a discussion just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u60	This is the 100th anniversary of the Institute of Agroecology and Environmental Management's research station, the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Panfille Research Station of the National Institute of Agricultural Sciences, 150th anniversary of the birth of Professor Frankfurt. And as an exception, because we were talking about Lugansk, Donetsk County and Crimea, the 95th anniversary of Lugansk Higher Education Institute, which was talked about by a colleague of Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u61	Thank you. So the chairman of the committee, Mikola Knieżicky, sounded all the amendments to the bill, but in the course of the discussion, she did not take the word Radical. Didn't the Radical Party take the word for it? Please, one minute and we'll go to the vote. One minute, Easy, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u62	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear reporter! I have a constructive proposal for this bill to be supported by all the halls, each group or faction has made an offer to take them into account, unite, consolidate the hall and vote. The proposal from the Radical Party faction was: June 13, 2014 was entered into the calendar of Ukrainian history as the day of the liberation of the city of Mariupol. I propose June 13th to mark the state level, the liberation of Mariupol from Russian occupations, the preservation of this part of Ukraine. And as an example, the virtues of our volunteers, of our military servicemen, who liberated and protected the native Ukrainian land by setting an example throughout the country that we can win, we can liberate the occupied territories, and so it will be with all the Donbass that we will certainly free. And Donecchina, and Lugansk, and the flag of Ukraine will be held there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u63	If you'd like to comment, we'll proceed to the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote and 30 seconds Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u64	Thank you, dear colleagues, I have hope, even if we hold elections, not tomorrow. So give your suggestions to the committee, we'll consider them in accordance with the President's decree, and we'll all include, I'm not against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u65	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a vote of warning, a draft Determining Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u66	Then let's do what he says.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u67	Regarding the commemoration of the anniversary in 2016, as amended from the rostrum of Mikola Knieżicky and with the amendment under the transcript of Oleg Lazko. Signal vote 3807. May I have a vote, a vote of 3,807, please? [[17:12:10]] For the 220. Where did the deputies go? Return your deputies to the Hall, your honors. Call the deputies to the hall. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the faction secretariats, I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall. A large system of work has been carried out, perhaps for the first time we have a distinction that is entirely in line with the Ukrainian national spirit that corresponds to our historical heritage and tradition. And let's be responsible when we vote. Prepared, once again, the 3,807th draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2016. Please vote 3807. Vote, please. [[17:13:13]] For 221 Colleagues, we support Lithuania's proposal, I'll just make it sound when there's no vote. We're backing it up for what. Okay. The proposals of Lithuania and Tomenka will be heard under the transcript they will be accepted. Tomenko Mikola, we support. We support Vladimir Litwin. Ready? Mobileized? So the 3,807, then I'm going to specify for the stenogram what it sounds like, now it's just a signal. Three hundred and seventy-seven votes, please stand by. 3807. [[17:14:12]] For 238. Okay, 238 is victory. So let's go to the vote, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016, as amended for the transcript by Nikola Knieżicky, as well as the amendments made by the national deputies of Ukraine: Oleg Laska, leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Vladimir Litvin and Mikli Tomenka. With all these offers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikoli Tomenka's 175-year celebration of Dragomanov. With all these amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the Song of Solomon’s amendment must have just been sounded by the Prince. With all these amendments, I ask you to support the draft Decree 3807 as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, we vote, 3807 as a foundation and as a whole. Please. [[17:15:20.]] For 244 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill, the committee and the authors of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, if there is no objection, stay in your seats. Let's confirm the order of the day session with that proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone who's registered is in a session until mid-July. That's consistent with what I said under the transcript. Dear colleagues, this will allow each of you to do legislative work, legislative work, including working with the committee. Are you ready to vote for the approval of the agenda? Dear colleagues, I'm putting up a motion for a vote, all of which are registered today, except for the first appendix, the first one. All the laws remain in order of the day session, with the vote for the second, third appendix. Appropriately and including removing those laws that, according to the authors of these laws, the authors of the laws, go to an appeal, all justly without any questions. And this proposal -- in general, I'm going to put up a vote. I ask everyone to vote, these are the laws of all factions, groups and non-faction MPs. Ready, colleagues? Please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, this proposal I'm putting to the vote an audible, I'm asking you to support everyone, it's the inclusion in the agenda of the day laws for the entire session. Vote? Please support me. Please support everyone. [[17:17:43]] For 210 Well, almost, almost. I don't understand the logic of not voting for these decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please approach the MPs. Please. Let's do this one more time, please support everyone, regardless of factions and groups. Attention! Is everyone clear on the offer? It's to include in the agenda all the laws that are registered so that we can work with them are all your laws. What is the point of not voting for this decision? Please re-vote. Please support everyone, please vote. [[17:18:58]] For 217 Colleagues, take your seats. Let's try it again. Except for the first plugin, except for the first one. Listen, please! This proposal is completely objective. Attention, colleagues, once again: exclude the first app. Those who were in the first appendix remain in the order of the day session. The second and third appendix is approved, including by excluding those laws that the authors have simply responded to so that they do not take up your time. Is such an offer accepted? Please, please, everyone, call for a vote, take it in general. Come on, let's vote! Vote, vote! Please be supportive. [[17:20:18]] For 214 214. Well, actually we don't have 12 votes. I don't see the possibility of voting then. Let's try it again, colleagues. Maybe. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, fellows, let's vote again and let's continue to figure out what to do with the order of the day, that's enough for this week. Yeah, that's what I said. No, no, just the ones that were called off by the authors, I said that. I'm asking everyone to take your seats again. Let's re-vote the signal vote, colleagues, please all support the formation of the agenda of the day session according to the proposal that I said, announced under the transcript, we vote. [[17:22:49]] For 218. Let's move on. Please. Colleagues, we have important laws of 1581-d, the draft Housing and Utilities Act. Please, Alona Babak. 1581-d
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, all of Ukraine is now looking forward to resolving the relationship between consumers and providers of residential services, with water channels, with heat, with energy, with gases, with those who export garbage. This Housing Services Act has to settle these issues, there's no one in your room who doesn't know the problems of compensation for the cost of indoor electrical services. Everyone knows the problems of OSBB with Infoxodocanal. The Chinese know the problems of making contracts to supply hot water from Kiyevenergo. Contracts are made. We have to put an end to the mess in the DRC. This law has to regulate it. There were three blocks of questions raised during the discussion. First. Social protection for people receiving housing services. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Social Guarantees section introduces a proposal from January 1, 2017 to grant monetary benefits and subsidies to recipients of benefits and subsidies for the first time. Second block. They talked about the quality of services. This bill proposes, for the first time, whether you arrive at the site of a misappropriation of the service of the OSBB or the manager or someone else, that the consumer, if these structures do not arrive, together with the neighbor may file a claim without expecting all the structures. We haven't had that before, we're offering it to the consumer. We suggest there was a problem with waste management. We gave the right to a union of coowners, private. To the owners of the private building, pick a carrier out of the garbage business, but from a list that will be selected on competitive grounds by the local government. There shouldn't be any logging here. But we're opening up opportunities for people. There was a third question. How we protect people's services. We're here for the first time to test the quality of water, the gas, what else.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u71	I'm the last one. I'm done. Dear colleagues, this bill is a full-time proposal to prepare for the second reading. On the basis of the committee, we're going to create a working group, you're all going to give your comments subject to positions, if you think they need to be reconciled, and we're going to look at them. I'm asking you not to block the process, all people are waiting, until July 1st we have to give them contracts for management. Please assist in the first reading today and prepare for the second in conjunction with the committee. The committee's been looking at it for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u72	Let's take two minutes of factions and groups, if they want to. Discussed? Are you ready to vote? Then please, I can only see. Vote? A minute, Olesia Long. Then it's Maxim's Chicken Minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u73	Long. It's the will of the people faction. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill because we understand that today we need to introduce a free housing market. At the same time, we are concerned that the adoption of this law does not lead to a sharp increase in housing prices. Therefore, we ask that the authors of the law provide this in this bill. And the second one we're worried about. We would like to see in this bill that this law did not abolish those who recently voted. In particular, this is the case with regard to the allocation of grants to ATO participants under the special rules introduced in October. Please note this. In other languages, we are ready, given these conditions, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u74	Thank you. Maxim Chicken, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people's deputies! Those who want to fight and still end the injustices of residential organizations, those who want national security order, I am not afraid of that word, are simply obliged to vote in favour of the draft law. On 1 July, the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Real Estate in Houses in Multi-Apartments, Multi-Apartment Houses, comes into full force. The law destroys the GECO monopoly for the provision of housing and utility services and returns. This draft law will ensure order in this area. This draft law will help to ensure that our inhabitants of Ukraine. who live in multi-housing homes will pay for real housing and utility services. There's no such thing today. I call for an end to speculation on this subject, a vote on first reading and further work on bringing this law to its highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u76	Please, Andrew Shinkovic, and we vote, then the Kodola People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask you to support this bill, because it really applies to millions of Ukrainians. Every day, because of the mass of legal colossal apherists in the area of residential services, people are chosen: because of the inaccuracies of the formulation of terms, because of the uncertainty of the features of the provision of housing services in single-room homes, in dormitories, in the housing fund, because of the lack of a full list of requirements for candidates in the manager. As a result of the adoption of this law, the demonopolization of housing and utilities, the creation of a competitive environment and, of course, the result of lower prices, as a result, is the technical restocking of housing and utilities, the reduction of drinking rates through the use of energy and material resources, the creation of an effective mechanism to stimulate the use of alternative sources of energy and fuels. Please vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u78	The Kodola People's Deputy and we vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u79	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. As co-author of the legislative initiatives, I would also like to express my support for this bill. Our faction, like last week, will unanimously support this bill as a basis and calls on all other colleagues to support and approve this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 1581st, the bill that is proposed to be accepted as a basis. I ask everyone to take their seats and support this bill, and we will continue to work on it. Let's vote on the draft Housing and Utilities Act (1581-d). I urge everyone to support this bill. Ready? Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[17:31:24]] For 229 Colleagues, I ask you to vote, on the basis of your vote. But, carefully, you see, 229 votes, but a very important law. Please be supportive. Vote? Please, 1581-d on a basis, please support this bill. Vote. [[17:31:55]] For 242 So that we can vote the sessions in order for the day. Ready? Well, let's give it a try. In accordance with my proposal, we are voting for the approval of the agenda, according to my proposal. Why not? Voting, voting. Please vote, vote. [[17:32:30.]] For 201 I welcome the adoption of the Housing Services Act. Next, colleagues, 3,390 draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities to provide State support for voluntary unification of territorial communities. We also discussed Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. There's also an offer based on its approval, it's a perfectly normal law. At that time, there were not enough people physically in the hall. Please support it on the basis of a 3390 rating vote. It's an important law, the communities are waiting for it, please back up, please back up. Signal vote, please support, colleagues. [[17:33:24]] For 215 I think there are possibilities. Once again, colleagues, this is an important law in the framework of decentralization, the support of territorial communities that are forming. Please support this bill. I'm betting on a 3390 vote, a signal vote, please all support, colleagues. Vote. Please support, we vote. Please support everyone. [[17:34:04]] For 224 Let's do it again, please, once again. For the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities, making changes to it, please vote on the basis of a signal. On the basis of a signal, please support me, colleagues. [[17:34:34]] For 226 Yes, but we need everyone to vote now, so we don't. Let's do the rating vote again, 3390, please support the colleagues, let's support it. Vote, colleagues, please. It's an important law. [[17:35:17]] For 227 Please support, colleagues, we all vote, please, a very responsible vote. On the basis of 3390, please all support, colleagues, we vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[17:35:41]] For 225 Victor Halasyuk, I see. Dear colleagues, literally one voice. I'm asking for a return, colleagues, to vote. Vote. Vote for return, please vote. Victor, we vote in return, please vote. Please support me. [[17:36:13]] For 227 We're back. Please vote on the ground, please support me, colleagues. Yuro! Please vote, please support the base. Please be supportive. [[17:36:36]] For 229 The law was passed on as a basis. Colleagues, this is not compulsory, do not change the concept of voluntary union. You show me at least one community that you've forced the industry to say. Come on, please. Do not be misled. 2490a is a draft law. And allow them to receive the billions of dollars that are budgeted today for the united territorial communities. 2490a is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of criminal penalties and the enforcement of the rights of convicted persons. Andriy Anatolyovich. Who's from the 2490s? 2504a-d is the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Bindings. Taras Shepherd will report. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider. Please, by the summary procedure, please vote. [[17:38:04]] For-167 The law. The decision has been made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, in order not to take up your time, since this bill was already presented in these walls, it was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, respectively, developed by the Ministry of Defence. But in the first version that was given to us, it was overloaded by rules that could be regulated by sub-legislative acts. We tried to clean these things up in this bill. In addition, we have seen that the bill offers the possibility of abuse of the right to access public information, especially in the area of access to medical data. In fact, the military registry database would need to provide current data on the health status of each military officer. We believe that this is unnecessary, and military personnel can only use the data that they collect on their own during the medical examination of military-related commissions. Also, the bill, which we have not yet removed, but which we will remove between the first and the second readings, remains, in fact, a double conduct of data on the crossing of the military bound borders of Ukraine. We think it's a waste, and between the first and the second readings, we're going to take that away. But for today's adoption of this bill is very important to us because it's this one. This base, it's actually already created, and the technical equipment is purchased, installed at our General Staff. And this system is ready for a test run, only without voting on this bill will we be able to start working. And in order to run this base, we need it once again from the Central Electoral Commission to get the voter register to transfer it to the military base. In addition, I would like to point out that the existence of such an electronic register of military obligations is a requirement for Ukraine, which today is one of the 12 requirements for membership to meet the conditions for NATO countries. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u83	That is why the bill is urgently needed today in the first reading. For the second reading, we are obliged to clean up and cooperate with those amendments and request that you be supported in reading them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, please, two for, two for against, please. Andrew Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u85	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I think it's obvious for everyone as a door that if Ukraine were NATO members, we wouldn't have an annexation of Crimea, we wouldn't have started a war on Donbas, which killed thousands of heroes, thousands of civilians, and destroyed the infrastructure. There's a lot of people in this room who have seen what Donbas Arena Stadium is, what the Donetsk Airport is. And for this mistake that Ukraine wasn't integrated into the North Atlantic Alliance, we pay a very expensive price, otherwise we wouldn't have war. Absolutely correct support will be given only in the first reading of this draft law, because indeed, the creation of a single register of military-related individuals is a requirement for Ukraine's entry into NATO, which we need to move forward as soon as possible. These are the two biggest mistakes we have made in terms of international security -- the shameful refusal of nuclear weapons, according to the Budapest Memorandum, when we received nothing for it, and the fact that we had such power that did not engage in real integration of Ukraine into NATO. At the same time. And so, of course, we only need to be supported in the first reading, because the norm has not yet been removed for access to medical data only across the country -- it's wrong, NATO can't demand such a thing, let the military secretaries collect this information themselves, just like the rule on cross-border information. Therefore, support is needed, but in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, John Winnick, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u87	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I am abstaining from political statements, and I would like to point out, in fact, the procedure envisaged by the Rules for the re-first reading, which has been very successful, and along with the Secretariat of the National Security and Defence Committee. Indeed, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that this law should be accepted as a basis, but, in fact, if we had the legal capacity to take into account the rights that Mr. Shepherd’s colleague had listed in the first reading, it could be accepted as a whole. But the procedure is designed to properly introduce rights to second reading, which is why we propose to take it as a basis, and not because it somehow does not meet the requirements of today. Indeed, the process of processing took into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The comments of the Central Electoral Commission, the Human Rights Commissioner, as well as the comments of experts working on the committee, were also taken into account by the National Deputies, who are part of our committee. Therefore, we suggest that he be accepted immediately today as a basis, and after a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading, that he be ready for us for the next meeting to accept him. Because, in fact, today there is an extremely big problem with the register of military bounds, and indeed there have been even cases where a person voluntarily wanted to join the ranks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and even had the proper profession that was needed on the front, but his personal case was lost -- and a person could not, in fact, under the Military Service and Military Duty Act, get into the military. So you have to make this electronic register, you have to be modern now, because it's a question of our defense. Let's support this as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u88	Sergei Vlasenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, in no doubt supporting Ukraine's NATO movement, but listening to a colleague, you know, I had the impression that we had already raised military standards to NATO level, that we had raised military security to NATO level, that we had a referendum on NATO accession, and we had one question left: register. But we are now in a state of military conflict with the Russian Federation. Remind all Mr. Deputies how we sell our tax records on Petrovka, as we sell our customs records on Petrovka. What do we want all our military-related data to be sold on disks in Petrovka and so that the enemy will simply be able to pick up the disk, put it on his computer, and get all the information about our country’s security? Are we doing this today? We've already solved all the issues related to NATO integration and we have one question: is that a register and all? If that were the case, of course it would have to be unreservedly voted for by clearing up all the unnecessaryities that exist in this law and in terms of crossing borders and in terms of medical data, but today we are still very, very, very far away in our desire to join NATO. I agree with a colleague who said that if we were in NATO, there wouldn't be this aggression, it's quite obvious. But we still have to take seven steps to NATO. So today to reveal to the enemy all the information, to make it transparent and public about the state of our military-related, about the list of personal data, about military-accounting specialties, about their medical data, about where they are and what they are doing, I think it's totally unacceptable. That's why the Fatherland faction will be able to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u90	Please, in a minute, Yuri Solowei and Olez Longi, and Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u91	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency. Dear colleagues, what today prohibits the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence from creating such a register and working, while not addressing such technical issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Nothing forbids it, Volodymyr Borisovich, this question is to create the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on its own. I want to notice, we've spoken and dated today, and we've got registers, and we've got two laws in the agenda: the first one that regulates banking, and the second one that regulates road construction. And for some reason, I predict, 17:47 today is the time that we will not be able to consider these very important laws. So let's move on to those laws that concern people, and don't even put these issues in order of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u92	Dear fellow national deputies, this bill is registered by the National Deputies Shepherd, Pashinsky, and Vinnik. And they have the right to a legislative initiative. And it is your right to uphold or not to uphold this law. But since it is in order of day and is in harmony with the Conciliation Council, we need to consider it. Please, Oleg Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u93	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we have made a decision on the faction to support this bill, but we fully support our colleague Vlasenko, because there is no personal data protection to this day. And the bill does not specify what mechanism to protect these personal data will be taken into account. In particular, we would like to say what other points are made. We have doubts about such an addition in the End Positions, the formulation. It is indicated that it is necessary to provide information about other members of the military, and it is not clear who they are. So we would ask that the wording be clarified. We would ask that our comments be taken into account on the need to take into account the protection of personal data, especially when it comes to our military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u94	Thank you. Sergei Pashinsky, please. I'm pointing out that this law we're looking at in the first reading as a basis and the second reading could be worked out in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u95	Again, no politics. It's number one. This issue is regulated, not by a Cabinet ruling, but by the law of Ukraine according to valid legislative acts. Item two. In the past year, despite the opposition of Putin's friends, we passed about 70 laws, and we changed the whole legislative field of defence and security, fundamental. And there's a lot more and a lot of elements. And we're going to keep moving, and we're going to be reforming, and we're going to have the experience that we're going to have in these six and a half years of implementing either the orders of the General Staff, or the Cabinet rulings, or, if necessary, and in this case it's necessary, the legislative acts. All comments on the second reading will be considered. And I very much ask, this is our responsibility to our nation, let's vote in the first reading, work out and adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, have all those desiring taken the floor and spoken? One more minute from the rostrum, from Taras Shepherd's authors, and let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall and have a seat, and there will be a vote. Please, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, I have had a personal opportunity to see where the server of this base is physically. First. They don't use the Internet to communicate. Every employee in the district military commission has access to only the data that he personally provides. None. No way to copy this data, transfer it to any other information. There is no information available or available on the media. Now he's the prime minister of the Russian Defense. I think by his consent, it's very simple for each of the faction representatives to enter the General Staff premises and those people who have access to the secret to see and learn about this base. But that's what it'll do. First. That's it. When this system is in place, it will allow soldiers today to manipulate conscripts and someone for money to pull out, lose, and leave someone behind. The other one. I think you've literally witnessed for days when the identity cards, the special cases of our military personnel were presented to the entire Separatist site with all the lists, with the photos, with all the personal ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u98	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u99	The existence of such a base, the special matters in the ATO area will not be associated. One person in the military will have access to personal data. Each action is recorded and prescribed. And so, if even now, when we talk about fulfilling those commitments that we are facing today in NATO countries, this is one of the 12 countries. And that doesn't mean that once we do that, we're going to be there right now, but we have to move in parallel in all of these processes. And I think the Ministry of Defense is going to give total agreement and opportunity to get to know the activity of this base.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I propose to proceed to the vote. I think it's all settled during the discussion. Dear colleagues. Kishkar still requires a word for the speech. Paul Kishkar, one minute, please
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u101	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Andrey. In fact, the law is essential and needs to be adopted not only in the first reading but also in general. But I draw the attention of the Military Prosecutor’s Office and the Chief Military Prosecutor to the fact that there were actually four systems for the calculation of military obligations in Ukraine. These systems, somehow, at the start of the war, proved to be inoperable and unworkable, but they were completely passed on to preservation. So please open up appropriate criminal conduct and bring the Ministry of Defense's responsible persons, who have actually ripped these 4 systems apart, or the money on these systems, to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been a very complex discussion that shows that there is no unanimous opinion in the room. So I'm going to put the first proposal on the basis of the committee's proposal. If it does not pass, colleagues, we will need to consult whether the committee should be reopened first or subject to a legislative initiative, but to make a successful decision. How would you advise? But let's try it on the basis first. We really have the ability between first and second reading to work out and all the warnings that there are to be included in the body of the bill. So let's vote first on the signal vote, the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly bound 2504a-d, according to the committee's proposal on the basis. Signal vote. Please vote. [[17:55:30.]] For-174 Colleagues, the committee, the authors for the committee or the subject of the legislative initiative, how do you advise? Subject. Then let's vote again. To return the subject to the legislative initiative, but then I ask everyone to support Bill 2504a-d, a signal vote. Please vote on the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. Signal vote, vote. [[17:56:10]] For-189 There are no votes for this offer. The Society, according to the Rules, is another proposal for a committee to reread. But let us concentrate on this proposal, all of us will support the group, perhaps it will unite the hall. We're going to be able to rework the first and repeat the first, the rules don't limit. Society, this is an initiative of the Ministry of Defense. Let us not lose the bill, let us unite around this proposal. Colleagues, I'm calling for a return to the committee for a re-first reading of the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Responsibilized (2504a-d). The signal vote, the replay of the first reading that supports the proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:57:33]] For a hundred and There is no support, no unification of the hall, none of the suggestions unite the hall, we have a choice, either to fail it, or to move it to the ones discussed earlier. Committee, Mr. Taras, how are we going? Sergei Pashinsky, one minute, 30 seconds, which way is next, what's your advice, 30 seconds Pashinsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u103	I propose that, considering that a lot of deputies are busy with something, that we move this issue to Thursday, or we will collapse a very important law. I see that in principle all factions support the law, just there are no people in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u104	Then, colleagues, with your permission, we'll use the formula that we often use and transfer it to the section of the questions discussed earlier. There was no basic vote, there was only a signal vote, and let's try when there are more deputies in the room, to re-vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I'd like to refocus your attention on the fact that we need to adopt a decision on the order of the day of the fourth session. I'd like all the faction leaders to prepare for this vote tomorrow so that we can organize a job. So please prepare for the vote tomorrow for the order of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
