ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! [[Applause]] I'm very pleased to see you all, too, thank you. Thank you. In fact, there was a lot of different consultations yesterday with the leaders of the coalition factions, the president of the country, but I think we went out in a format that might be acceptable, responsible and allow us to get the country out of the crisis that we're in today. I think today will be the decision to discuss the members of the Supreme Council. I think we'll have an opportunity to meet today, to hold coalition meetings with a view to voting for a new government tomorrow, to approve the action programme, to change the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to move forward. The situation is extremely complex. The situation is extremely complex, and so comes the moment when responsibility is to be shouldered. I deeply believe that our shared responsibility will succeed. We will be faith and truth to do our job, and I assure you that all the challenges will be met, and the situation in the country will be stabilized. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and prepare for registration. I will also, with your permission, open meetings and hand over to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the continuation of the work, the preparation. If you'll let me go. You're letting go? Guys, I miss you, too, but. Please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please. [[10:06:05]] 329 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies. All Ukrainian national deputies, please take your seats and prepare for the recording of the performance, your honor's colleagues. Please. Please log in. Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front, please. Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have talked a lot about various consultations, but sometimes it is embarrassing to look at them. And it's only compassion for Vladimir Borisovich that we can express to others who participate in them because it's hard work. But besides consulting, there is life. And life is that what's happening right now is actually the restoration of the old system in the information field. Not long ago, I was talking to Levk Grigorovich Lukyanenko, who said from the height of his life experience that the main problem of Ukraine is that our information space remains occupied. And it's really occupied because the Media Transparency Act, one of the authors of which I am, and a whole series of TV channels and radio companies either didn't specify who their ultimate owner was or what they called fictitious owners were. And other Cypriots. We're talking a lot about offshoring the country right now, but exactly the same gray area, where you don't actually see the final owners, is not just in offshore areas, but in Cyprus, in Britain and elsewhere. And until we do everything we can to ensure that the information about the true owners of Ukrainian media is known, the Russian occupation will continue to dominate our air. And that's why the National Television and Radio Council has to do everything they can to order those television and radio companies that didn't show their true owners in a fixed term. Another problem is the problem of the so-called content of the occupying country that we have banned. It is a shame to see a copy of the various Ukrainian authorities among themselves as to who should be responsible for the prohibitions. And when the SBU refers to the Minister of Culture with some remarks, saying that little of it prohibits Russian content, it looks like at least funny, because the law, where one of the co-authors is also me, clearly states that the SBU, the National Security Council and the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio is a list of persons who pose a threat to the Ukrainian State and broadcast works for the participation of such persons is strictly prohibited. The Ministry of Culture here in general, it's not their function, it's the direct function of the BSB, the PNB and the National Council, which they're actually doing properly, but under the pressure of the Russian lobbyists, under the pressure of our media, which continues to depend on the Russian occupationer, they're afraid to admit it and they're trying to make it the ultimate Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, which has consistently advocated the rise of Ukrainian quotas, has consistently advocated as well as the MPs from the People's Front, the position that even though 30 percent of the Ukrainian song is supposed to sound in Ukrainian air and that's why it's getting so much criticism now. Dear colleagues, who would not be the next government if we didn't protect our information space if we didn't take advantage of the complex situation that has arisen and build a conscious, normal state of Ukraine, which is able to defend itself and is equal among the European peoples, all our discussions about government without understanding the importance of the cultural dimension of our country's development will still not lead us to victory. In the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Vassil Alexanderovich used to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u4	Vasily Gulyaev, team of the Rebirth Party. Good day to you all. For over a year now, everyone has been talking about the decentralization of power on the ground. But unfortunately, there are other things going on. To date, the land has not been dedicated to the communities, nor has the land been given to the united communities. And until these laws: 1159, 3510, 3510, 3510, 1 will not be put into the hall and voted on, and they will be voted on here, until then the unification of the communities of all. Because, speaking to the presidents of the village councils, no one believes us anymore. We, when we came here more than a year ago, told everyone that we would hand power over to the places. What's going on today? We have transferred vocational and technical schools to provide local communities, which we are destroying, is all vocational and technical education. To date, we have transferred the concessional category of people to the locations. Not every community has money to make it happen. We say we are going to Europe, but in Europe, local communities rule the land. Until then, Kiev officials do not know how they are on the ground and how to do so. I mean, we need to understand that on the ground, the measures of cities, the presidents of rural and village councils, they know and understand better than the official of Kiev how to do it. And the team of the Rebirth Party will support all laws that will facilitate the decentralization of power. I would like to draw our colleagues' attention to this in order to support land laws, 1159, 3510, and to ensure that these laws are put into place. Because decentralization on the ground is the most important issue in Ukraine today. If we start from place to place, then we'll have everything different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Yuri Bereza, People's Front. He's giving the word "Gussy," too, "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u6	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends, I would like to turn from this rostrum to the President of Ukraine, to the leadership of the law enforcement agencies of our state, the B.S.A., the militia and the prosecutor's office. What is happening now is the persecution of foreign volunteers who fought on the front for Ukraine’s independence. You know, when things started on Donbas, several hundred foreigners, mostly Belarusians, Russians, other nationalities and states, representatives of states, fought there for our independence in various volunteer battalions, in different structures. So far, a large number of these people have been injured, and unfortunately, there are people who have died. But what happens now? Literally in April, Belarus, representatives of the State Security Committee conducted extensive searches of the parents of young boys from Belarusian volunteers who are now in Ukraine. Appropriately, they look for reasons to hold them accountable. There's information that the Belarusian side is demanding the extradition of these boys to Belarus. They can get prison terms for more than 10 years. My request is one and one. And I know there are a lot of people in this room who are willing to sign. I ask the authorities of the State and the Ministry of Public Affairs and the law enforcement authorities to impose a moratorium on the extradition of foreign citizens who participated in the war with Russia on our part. We have to make sure these guys are, well, safe. Because I was here yesterday in Parliament with some of them, they weren't afraid on the front, but today they're going to Kiev and they're looking to see if tomorrow no one's going to dump them in the car and pass them on to the Belarusian side. It's going to be a crime against these people because they're not Ukrainian citizens, but when they saw the Russian Federation attack Ukraine, they withdrew from their places, from their states, and came to our state. So once again, I ask you to impose a moratorium on the extradition of foreign nationals to those countries that demand extraditions that fought for Ukrainian interests in Donbasa. And God forbid, even though one will be published, there will be a scandal that will sweep away the structure that will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u7	Thank you. Matkovsky conveys the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u8	Glory to Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people. I would like to turn to and sound the voice of the young new political power "National Control" on the current political moment in Ukraine and call for the unification of the democratic opposition of all the democratic forces that are in Parliament, whether it's a faction of Fatherhood, whether it's a faction of Self-Help, whether it's a faction of the Radical Party, whether it's "Freedom" or "UKROP." You can see that the so-called current new coalition, which represents the new oligarhat, and more precisely the old oligarhat, which is the continuation of the Yanukovich regime, in cooperation with the Opposition Block, along with the People's Front and the Petra Prashenko Block, is trying to impose a so-called batch vote on us in an anti-democracy way. And these culinary arrangements, which are completely opaque, which are in the form of so-called "fives" or "sevens" in the Bank, are trying to impose not only a return on us to cancel the unsatisfactory work of the government, but also to acknowledge in one package one vote and a program even to the new government and all the ministers, and the resignation of the old prime minister, I hope that the old one and the appointment of the new prime minister. I believe that such a non-democratic way is a disgrace and the end of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. So I call upon all the sober-minded people, all those for whom the words "Madan" and "The Dignity Revolution" are not so broad as to continue the old-fashioned habits, but are really sacred values, no side to yield to and not to participate in that dereboss and scoundrel that. which is trying to turn our Ukrainian Parliament into a so-called new majority. That is why, in keeping with these principles, I believe that the democratic opposition must unite not only in the walls of Parliament but we must make a tactic to resist this oligaric rematch of old forces that have actually lied and sing together with so-called new forces. How long are we going to put up with this abuse of the Ukrainian people? If you can't agree on the position of one minister or another, if you don't trust each other that much, maybe you should listen to the thinking of the Ukrainian people and do it honestly, go to the polls and ask them what they think about your so-called new spreads, new coalitions and new batch voting. I am convinced that the democratic forces in the Ukrainian Parliament will not be disgraced. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u9	Bondar passes the word to Kulinich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u10	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In turn, I want to raise the issue of health care, namely the functioning of the hospitals in Poltavščina, which I represent in Parliament. This is the former linear hospital at Ramadan South Railway Station, which is now being reorganized at the general practice of family medicine. I've already raised this problem from the Supreme Council's rostrum on briefings on several occasions. But so far this issue has not been resolved by opposition from officials who work in the workplace. What's the problem? In a village with a population of over 3,000, 100 people, in fact, are unable to obtain medical care. There's only one doctor and nurse working in the infirmary, one of whom is dealing with children, and the other two are on schedule. There's no 24-hour field office, no people even getting stabbed. A few times, narrow - profile specialists came, but on one occasion, people did not fall for them because they were not properly advertised, and on another occasion there were so many people who could not be reached in line with these doctors. Let me remind you that Romodan is a large station, a railway station. A large number of people are former railways, pensioners and older people. And such a critical health care situation arose after the hospital’s organization. And what's going on? The local village head is convinced that he does not have a request from the district to allocate funds for the maintenance of the Feldsher office, and the head of the district government’s complaints to the locals answers that if the village council makes a donation, they do not object to the restoration of such a cabinet. That's what they're pointing at each other with their fingers on each other, and the question isn't being solved at all. The issue with the governor of Poltava District, Valeria Golk, was repeatedly discussed. He was with me in charge of the Department of Health. The district council’s profile committee went there. But the question is not solved again. People constantly complain to me about the inaction of officials and about the improper provision of medical assistance. I am convinced that officials and officials are assigned to work for people and for people, not to receive a salary. So I want to officially turn from the rostrum to the head of the Poltava region of Valery Gołk. Please state the order of medical care in the Poltava region, specifically in the Mirgrad region and specifically in the village of Romodan. Give appropriate advice, and give the head of the district government an immediate solution. And please remind him that he's assigned to the job and the officials responsible for it, to work for people and for people, not to get a salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u11	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! There was a lot of this room, and there were different processes of power-building. I remember 1998 and the two-month Speakeriad. I remember in 2007, when in a very strange way, with an uprising, they formed a coalition, but which was formed, they took responsibility with grief and half, but it worked for two years. What is happening today is a national disgrace, a disgrace to power. And how do you want people to have a little respect for any institution of power after this clown we've been watching for the second month? You are destroying the State today by such formation of the Government and by such resignations. On 16 February, we do not give up the Prime Minister, and on 17 February, we now require him to leave on his own. It's kind of a marshmallow. And the faction whose leader resigns remains in coalition is some masochism. You know, today's situation in Ukrainian politics reminds us of a famous saying about a brothel that wanted to be updated. But you have to pay tribute to today's coalition, and in this brothel, you want to renew and change clearly not the bed. Come on, the customers are waiting! Only two phone calls yesterday that they're waiting for and they want you very much. I'm absolutely sure you won't be able to get a lot of milk out of this bull. Today I have absolute confidence that what you are trying to create today will incapacitate and only make the situation in the country worse and make people even poorer. On this background, some people forgot what happened exactly a week ago in the Netherlands. Everybody says it's what they said in Europe, "no" to Ukraine's European choice. No, this is exactly what has been estimated by corruption, total crime in the government of Ukraine. And these are the direct consequences of the activities of the two - year - old power of today, and the presence of this coalition. Please tell us, who is opposed to the Christian values that are now embodied in Europe? We are here today for Christian values to be realized in our country, but neither in this Parliament nor in this power. You have to assume responsibilities and courage and go to the people of Ukraine for a new election. All together, together with the President and his offshores and with your authority and your coalition. There is no other sentence for Ukraine! We need not fear our own people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u13	Germany passes the word to Dunaev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u14	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 13 April 2014, a war came to Ukraine, a war that turned the lives of the people of Ukraine from Lviv to Luhansk, from Sum to Sevastopol. The war, which has left 700,000 of our compatriots homeless, has claimed the lives of more than 9,000 Ukrainian citizens, including the children of Ukraine. This war has affected all Ukrainian citizens, not just those living in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas. The most important issue that has not yet been resolved is the restoration of Ukraine's integrity. All Ukrainians ask one question: what did the Supreme Council of Ukraine do? We trusted a country that must defend and protect the rights of our citizens to achieve peace and restore the integrity of Ukraine. The answer is obvious: nothing has been done in two years. Despite all the agreements reached, our citizens continue to die, we must continue to negotiate within the framework of the Minsk Agreements and start an all-Ukrainian dialogue for future generations. The inhabitants of the Lugansk and Donetsk areas living in the war zone, who lost their property, forced displaced persons, did not receive support from the State two years later, and most importantly, the world did not come to Ukraine. In the Lugansk region, electricity, schools, hospitals, kindergartens and industrial enterprises are shut down every day, residents of the region survive without gas, water and electricity, and walk unlit streets. At that time, the Supreme Council and the Kabmin are engaged in political games with their own self-assurance, portfolios and the problems of the residents of Donbass and Ukraine as a whole. Our old men who have given their whole lives to honest work, have they earned such a depraved old age by working honestly for the rest of their lives? Our old people today are forced to debase the checkpoints in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas in a humiliating manner to reaffirm their right to a miserable pension. What did the Supreme Council and Kabmin do to revive the economy? When we continue to purchase coal in other countries today, thereby endangering the energy security of our country, while the miners of Lviv, Volini, Donetsk and Luhansk today do not understand what this is about. Industrial workers' labour groups are asking why we are not concerned about the well-being of our country's economy, but at the same time, we are concerned about the well-being of other countries' economies under the IMF. We must have a common goal with you — peace in Ukraine, the restoration of the integrity of the State, the promotion of national interests in both domestic and foreign policies. What did each of us members of the Supreme Council do to make peace in Ukraine? We must stop hanging the labels “outside” and make a loud declaration of the need for a peaceful settlement of the military conflict, while at the same time doing nothing to do so in the form of the Minsk Agreements. We need to respond with our actions, not with loud words. Let each of us not forget what we were chosen to do — represent the interests and human rights of all the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u15	Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich. Let him report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u16	Please pass the word to your colleague Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the existing health - care system, which now exists, unfortunately does not meet the health - care needs of Ukraine’s population. Within a year and a half of our work with you in Parliament, we did not adopt any legislation that would change the health - care funding system. At the same time, we are adopting very important bills on visa-free regimes, on combating corruption, and we are also reducing taxes on cars. Does all of this matter if our population declines every year just because we have an inadequate health system? Nine people die every day in Ukraine. These are the people who didn't expect a transplant. 5,000 people each year are forced to search for funds and travel abroad to receive services from transplants. And that's only because, in the middle of our nation, we don't have highly qualified professionals who can properly conduct transplant operations, we don't create a proper Ukrainian law and we don't build a transplant system in Ukraine that meets the needs of this particular area. Similarly, we realize that we are the only State in Post - Soviet space that has not changed the system of financing the health system itself. Now all public and state property institutions are budgetary institutions, and they only get the state budget spending on infrastructure conservation. And unfortunately, in no way does the health care budget fund the health care itself, nor does it fund the purchase of medical supplies, nor does it have the most basic medical care: there is no patient. Therefore, all these legislative initiatives have been in the Parliament of the Supreme Council for over a year, and they are ready to vote. But only yesterday, for the first time in a year and a half, they went into the agenda for the last day of Parliament's work -- and we failed to vote for them again. Therefore, the Self-Help faction insists that in the near future, tomorrow or the next parliamentary week, it is the medical bills, the autonomousization of medical institutions, the transplantation, the increase in the salaries of health workers, that they be placed in the agenda, and that national MPs vote in favour of these important bills. There is nothing more valuable than the health of Ukrainian citizens. And the state's attitude towards Ukrainian citizens is determined by the level of medical care in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u18	Galchenko gives the floor to Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u19	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies! What we have seen recently in Parliament, in the Government, in all our power, the coalition calls political debate. In fact, this is the sentence of the current authority. And, God forbid, it's up to us not to be a sentence in the country. To the inability of the leaders of the provincial parties, they added a complete lack of confidence in their actions both within the coalition partners and on the part of all Ukrainians and the world community. All the beautiful statements of the five provincial parties, I am not mistaken, really the five provincial parties that are now quick to say that they are already the opposition, some of them are talking about the openness of power, the fictitious managers, the technocrats, the "take and do" and so on, in fact they are all in power. And how did it end? Culinary contracts with portfolios and cash flows. Yesterday, we introduced a bill that protects Ukrainians from the proliferation of banks, Bill 4001-1, which voted more deputies than the Government bill. However, the bills have been returned to the Hall and we believe that this is also a great victory because, according to the Government's bill, a moratorium on evicting people from their only home, i.e. they wanted to drive children, the elderly, out of the street. We now insist that our Bill No. 2275-1 on banning the activities of collectors against individuals be adopted. Using unregulated legislation, power, banks, collectors, who simply turn into bandits, demand, expel people and take the last. This is an example of what laws a country needs and is offered by the opposition bloc. In Dnepropetrov region, 35 families have actually been driven to the streets, not what people are expecting from us with you. On this issue, we are supported by dozens of public organizations and the Finance Channel and others, and millions of Ukrainians. In order to enforce these laws, it is necessary for the power and the Parliament to work. Our position that not only the Government should resign must go away and Parliament should not allow the power that has become a political bankruptcy to bankrupt every Ukrainian enterprise, every Ukrainian family. We need to create not a pro-European, not a pro-American, not a pro-Pro-Arab, not a pro-Russian coalition. We finally need the Ukrainian coalition, we need to think about our pragmatic national interests. And the elections now, I call on everyone not to be afraid, but to go, to go to people, to make their proposals and get them, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u20	Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable parliamentarians! Even today's speeches that we hear in Parliament say that, unfortunately, after two uprisings in Ukraine, after 25 years of development, the country can wait again for dark times. The dark times of those who buy law enforcement organs, the Attorney General's Office, and turn them into the NCSC and the HC in order to persecute those who think otherwise, in order to persecute those who protest against the oligarchy that has taken over Ukraine since the early 2000s and uses the public budget of people for their own purposes. And today this is happening in every district and district of the city. The courts are filled with cases against those who are fighting against the oligarchy and the regime’s will. Today’s speeches speak of a sentence against Ukraine. Indeed, they want to sentence Ukraine — not to be a free state for free people — but to serve the enemies and to serve the oligarchy. Today, elections are called for. Elections such as in Montenegro, elections such as in Volina, elections such as in Bloody Rose, when they work with those who do not go to elections, and they buy 50 percent of those who do. They occupy the 50 percent that they sell because they've never been to that election. Dear parliamentarians, you have to stand in front of people and hear what they think of us, not the few people who finance this vachanal. We must adopt a law in Parliament that will change the social infrastructure and politics of this state. This is a law on a proportional system and open lists, where every MP's face will not hide behind oligarchic brands and oligarchic money, but will be held accountable and free to the free people of the free Ukrainian state, which today is at the limit of the struggle between the truth and the lie of the oligarchy and the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u23	Thank you. There's still time. And the last performance, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u24	Good afternoon, fellow believers! On April 23, 2015 in this room, thanks to you, we passed a bill on the legalization of amber production. For a year, we see this phenomenon, like a country, the state is struggling with illegal amber. Whoever wins on this front, it's very questionable if it meant something, because we don't know who will win. As long as the National Guard, the GPU, the BSS, everyone else, fights illegal amber mining, it goes in tons abroad. We need to see today how poachers, like those people who are now criminalizing their pockets, they're all over the channels, they're doing their job, and the country is losing a lot of money. I want to address the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I want to address all of us. Put in a second reading a bill and finally put an end to this fight. You have to give people the opportunity to work, you have to give people the opportunity to have possible and legal earnings, so that they have real jobs, they have protection from the state, they have the opportunity to work on their land, and no one has walked or said it's illegal and you have to bribe. The second question I wanted to ask. On April 26, we're going to define the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. In this room, and also thanks to us, we passed the 2093 Bill, which was designed to support liquidators who are already resting in another world, for people who today have the last hope that the state will take care of them. Unfortunately, thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Finance, this bill was dedicated because we have some kind of incomprehensible task before the IMF, we have some incomprehensible lack of money in the budget, even though everyone reports that we have a redundancies. Sadly, though, today we cannot pay tribute and tribute to those who have protected us and saved us from that catastrophe. I want, at least, to ask for a new government leadership, a new government to immediately introduce a new bill and do everything we can to find an opportunity to pay back to those people who gave their health and their lives. And finally. We wanted to pay attention to Bill 3782, which applies to the border guards. You know, we've repeatedly said in this room that we haven't forgotten all the military personnel and prosecutors, the B.S.A., the police, they're all getting new salaries. But the border guards are, unfortunately, paying 2.5 thousand dollars today. So I want to go back to the Supreme Council and immediately put in law 3782.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the Hall and ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work. Newans is that we should start voting immediately under the Rules. Because the first draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Statement on the occasion of the 10-year ratification by Ukraine of the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco, it foresees first inclusion in the agenda. And that takes 226. And so, colleagues, I very much ask the heads of factions and the secretariat to ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please prepare all your colleagues to enter the hall. I understand that the decree 4119, it is non-conflict, it unites the entire hall, and it is important that we be disciplined enough to make a decision. Please, let's go into the hall and take jobs, so, columns, columns, we go into the hall. There's still free space in the hall. Okay. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Once again, we have the first chapter: inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. And the first is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 10-year ratification by Ukraine of the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco. By decree, the authors of the decree are representatives of almost all factions of Parliament. And it doesn't cause discussion, but it's important that we look at it as quickly as possible. Thus, a respected society, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to take a decision on draft Decree 4119. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:45:33]] For 176 I found no support in the hall for the fight against tobacco. The next one that is proposed to be included in the agenda for decision-making is the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees 2016. Bill 4342. I ask you to prepare for the vote, to mobilize. So, who supports the proposal to include the draft Decree 4342 in the agenda and the decision-making process, please. Why don't you vote, Princess? Mrs. Mikolo, it would be wise to vote to include in the agenda, so please sit down and vote. Who supports the inclusion of Decree 4342 in the agenda for the decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[10:47:08]] For 205 I'm willing to return on condition that all the factions will now call their parliamentarians from the buffets, from the cookbooks, from the discussions to the hall of work. 30 seconds, please call your colleagues. I'll be back in 30 seconds, one time. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, once again, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? The deputies continue to enter the hall, soon there will be no more seats. So once again, I am proposing the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the draft decision to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016 (4342). Anyone who supports the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and the decision of Decree 4342, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:49:28]] For the 220. There are no votes needed. The next draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "30 Years After Chernobyl: Lessons and Perspectives" is Decree 4369. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. So we have the next one in order of day 4369. And there are recommendations from the committee that we look at it in a simplified procedure. Who supports the consideration of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on 30 Years After Chernobyl: Lessons and Perspectives, in short procedure, please vote. [[10:50:46.]] For 212 212 in favour, the decision is made. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich. I'm sorry, I'm inviting Nedava Oleg. Nada Oleg, please report to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u26	Gentlemen, Your Honor, Your Honor! Thirty years ago, we all shuddered at what blew up Chernobyl. Thirty years ago we saw that there was another face in atomic energy, and this atom is not that peaceful. For 30 years we have been trying to understand the consequences that we have after this incident. Dear colleagues, on March 16, 2016, following the initiative of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were parliamentary hearings on "30 years after Chernobyl: lessons and perspectives". Their purpose was to summarize what had been done, first of all by the executive authorities, along with the legislative branch of power, the identification of what needed to be decided in the future. The national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of central executive bodies, local self - government bodies, scientific and social international organizations, and more than 500 attended the parliamentary hearings. As a result of these hearings, the committee prepared an appropriate decision and recommendation. In the proposed parliamentary hearing recommendations, the proposals of Ukrainian national deputies, central and local executives, as well as scientists are systematized and taken into account. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on recommendations for parliamentary hearings on the subject "30 years after Chernobyl. Lessons and prospects" are accepted in general. And I want to draw the attention of all the people's advocates personally to the fact that we need to do all of this immediately. Why? 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u28	One question. In 2026, the use of Waste Storage No. 1 will be completed. It's necessary. all wastes must be transported to Warehouse No.2. It'll take 10 years. If we don't start doing this now, if we don't start implementing the recommendations now, then we'll do it all in an aural fashion. I'm very much asking all the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Alexander Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u30	Please give me your word, Markevich Jaroslav. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u31	The Self-Help faction will support the ruling, of course. We would like to draw attention to several important facts. The first is that the territory of secession may not be used sufficiently as part of what is now being provided to us. Scientific research, many years after the tragic events at the atomic station, and the huge interest in how nature changes, how the life of the plant world changes, requires research. These studies are also of interest, including to international organizations. That's the first one. Second. The zone is sufficiently well researched in terms of radiation hazards, and perhaps now it makes sense to think about its economic situation. For example, the use of territories that are not seriously hazardous to human life for the production of wind energy, thanks to windmills, where “wind roses” allow; solar energy. That is, areas where a large number of work-hours can be produced without using them, for example, the same alternative energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u33	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Of course, our faction will support the draft of this decision. But I was recently in the homeland, in Lubna, in Poltavščina, and there's an Aleia of Chernobyl heroes. And every year, trees are planted in memory of the dead black people, and the shores are planted. So this year, 80 of them were planted, and no one thinks about it. The government took the benefits out of the Chernobyl family. Yesterday the Chernobylites in the village of Poltavska were covering for two hours. The president promises a bill on this issue. We have a very simple question. What's a new government going to do, what's a coalition going to do: bite at the portfolios, or by the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, the benefits will be returned to the Chernobyls, and they'll stop methodically destroying the Chernobyls? Dear colleagues, in Poltavščina, there are now some 3,000 ambulances in Lubenščina at the Chernobyl AES. They ask and beg to return to them face - to - face. On Saturday in Lubna, at 11 a.m., there will be a meeting of Chernobylers who are ready to go to Kiev, ready to go block government institutions if they don't get their faces back if they don't hear them. Surprisingly, these are the people who saved the country during the greatest technological tragedy of mankind in the past century. Turn around and face them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u34	Kulinich, "The Rebirth Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u35	Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, Rebirth will certainly support the draft of this decision. But before we vote, I would like to remind you that as early as February this year, "The Rebirth Party" registered Bill 4156 on the same issue. Project 4156 provides for changes to the State Funding Budget, with regard to the financial security of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. But for three months now, this bill is simply ignored and not going into the session hall, and this is because, unlike the declaration of draft Decree 4369 on parliamentary hearings, our project proposes concrete measures, namely, the financing of programmes and the provision of shelters, this is exactly what needs to be done for all people right now. Costs for such programs could be allocated, for example, by reducing expenditure on the same Public Administration or reducing the costs of certain Ministry of Finance programs. So we're proposing concrete measures that can be taken to really help the Chernobyls. So, dear colleagues, April 26, we're going to be 30 years old, this is the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, the Chernobyl disaster. So let us do something specific for these people. And I would like Parliament to adopt, not a declarative draft of a decision that has no legal effect, but a document that will really improve the lives of these people, the lives of the black people who really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Caplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u37	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, you know, we need to move from the practice of disseminating the declarative decisions of one or more of our congregations and listening to the practice of punishing those responsible for carrying out such recommendations. And it would be very nice for today’s acting minister and future minister to express themselves in this position. And if one of those people who spit into the soul of these simple ordinary citizens who saved mankind from this tragedy were to be answered by someone who would answer the questions that are now acutely faced by the Chernobylites. And you know, today, black people, tomorrow it's going to be ATO fighters, the day after tomorrow it's going to be pensioners. All of us need to be united in order for the State to care for every human, every individual’s interests. Because there will be thousands tomorrow, including ATO fighters. And we need to achieve concrete results. And the punishments must be those who fail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u38	Please, Sisoyenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the government's initiatives at the end of 2014 have completely eliminated the benefits and compensation of Chernobyl's disabled — adults and children living in the pollution zone. And the status of the pollution zones where people live has been reduced. The bill voted by the Supreme Council, number 2093, restored these benefits. However, the president of Ukraine promised this law on 6:04 this year. The Self-Help faction will support the veto, especially in the social welfare of Chernobyl and children. And just as the result of parliamentary hearings should be to require the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to return all benefits to the Chernobylites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over, all those who wanted to speak. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and there'll be a vote in a minute. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs, and the Supreme Council Secretariat to report that a vote is about to take place. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm really asking you to come into the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "30 years after Chernobyl: lessons and perspectives" (4369) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:03:38]] For 224 Dear colleagues, I'm only going to ask you once for a return to consideration. I ask not me, but my colleagues in factions to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft decision 4369. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:04:30]] For 235 Decision taken. I'm re-voting the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "30 years after Chernobyl: lessons and perspectives" (number 4369) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:05:04]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now pay attention, don't leave. Now there are three similar decisions that we have already spoken about parliamentary hearings. We've had a full discussion about them, we just have to make a decision. The first is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Development of entrepreneurship in Ukraine and support for small and medium-sized businesses" (4044). Is there a need for reminders? Is there a noise in the hall? Please, one minute to remind me. Just parliamentary hearings, let's not even be reminded. Vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of entrepreneurship in Ukraine and support for small and medium-sized businesses" (4044) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:06:22]] For 235 Decision taken. Next draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Stand and prospects for road safety in Ukraine" (4129). Colleagues, this motion for a ruling has been discussed, we've shared our thoughts, and now I'm putting it to a vote. Whoever supports the draft Decree 4129 as a basis and as a whole, please vote. Please vote. [[11:07:07]] For 238. Decision taken. And the last draft of the Resolution on 18 May 16th Parliamentary Hearing on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (4250). Dear colleagues, I'm putting the draft Decree 4250 to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this draft decision, please vote. Please vote. [[11:07:47]] For 243 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. And we're going to the First Reading section, and the first is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to restore trust between borrowers and creditors. I'm... colleagues, let's consult. Attention! Wait a minute. I was approached by a committee and a number of deputies with the request that I once again put forward a draft Order amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2016. According to the Rules, we should not vote in favour. I can ask this question, it's not a limited right to put it back into the agenda and make a decision. If there's no objection in the hall, I'll do it. There's no objection in the hall? So I'm going to ask the question again, 4119 and 4342. First, I'm drafting a decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration on the occasion of the 10-year ratification by Ukraine of the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco (4119) for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:09:21]] For 227 Decision taken. And the next. Draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the decision on draft regulation 4342, please vote. Please vote. [[11:09:56]] For 240 Decision taken. Thus, I am announcing a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 10-year ratification by Ukraine of the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco (4119). Whoever supports the proposal to deal with the matter by procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:10:29]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musi Oleg Stepanovich. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! The aim of this decision is to assess Ukraine’s implementation of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in Ukraine, the definition of tobacco control goals and tasks aimed at reducing the prevalence of smoking and mortality from tobacco - related diseases in Ukraine. The importance of this normative act is a historical one: 10 years ago, on March 15, 2006, Parliament, the Supreme Council, ratified the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The importance of this global treaty is difficult to overestimate, both on a global scale and for Ukraine in particular. The convention was an effective tool for protecting public health and the general health of the Ukrainian nation. The Framework Convention is the first international treaty to remain the only one to be signed by more than 180 countries in the world, with 90 percent of the population of the entire globe. Following the ratification of the WHO Convention in Ukraine, systematic changes to legislation were adopted that saved hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian lives. From fourth to fourth in 2006, we moved to a third in 2006 according to the World Health Organization’s latest report on the global tobacco epidemic. In the year of ratification of the Convention, 37 percent of Ukrainians were smokers, and in recent studies only 24 percent remained. As a result, asthma, ischaemic heart disease, upper respiratory tract disease, and so on. I would like to express my gratitude to those national deputies who have been working in the Supreme Council for 10 years, this is Mrs. Bachteyeva, this is Mr. Unguryan, this is Mr. Lazko and many others. In fact, 32 national deputies became signatories to the statement. And all the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u42	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u43	And the Full Health Committee, all 13 national deputies, joined the signing of this statement by the Supreme Council. It is symbolic of Ukraine’s commitment to the preservation of the health of the Ukrainian nation and to the fight against tobacco and the successive parliament, I ask for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u44	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this decision and recommends that it be adopted on a basis and in general. I can say that really 10 years ago, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified this international convention, many effective measures were taken. Indeed, Ukraine has moved from fourth place in the world to third place since the prevalence of smoking in 2006. This is according to the World Health Organization’s latest report on the global tobacco epidemic. Another outstanding example of the effectiveness of this convention, which in 2007 the tobacco excise budget was 2.7 billion dollars, reached 22 billion dollars in the budget last year in 2015. Therefore, anti - tobacco measures are effective both in terms of budgeting and in terms of public health protection, as well as in Ukraine, as part of the implementation of this convention, liberated cafes, bars, restaurants from tobacco smoke, and placed warning signs on cigarette packs. Therefore, it can be considered to be one of the most important conventions in the field of health protection and protection for those people, food workers, children, and therefore I would like to call for a vote on the basis, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u46	Thank you, colleagues. Please record two in favour, two in favor. The Lystic Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u47	Irina Sisoyenko, please have a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u48	Honorary colleagues, the adoption of the draft decree will help Ukraine implement its obligations to combat tobacco and to define the goals and tasks of implementing tobacco control measures, in accordance with the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and its guiding principles to reduce the prevalence and mortality of tobacco - related diseases in Ukraine. At the same time, with the ratification of this Convention, Self-Help will vote in favour. But it is also important to develop and implement a national target, a social program that reduces the harmful effects of tobacco on the health of the population and helps to stop smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u50	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I also call for support for this decision for a healthy nation, for reducing the impact of the harmfulness of tobacco, so I urge all MPs to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in a minute, I ask you to come into the hall, there will be a vote in a minute, please come into the hall. This is Capplin Sergey, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u52	Mr. Andrey, there's something I'd like to talk to you about. For the second day, simple people have been calling and asking how is the process of negotiating the new Kabmin composition and the election of the Prime Minister. As a future speaker, I think you should start to use this role and tell ordinary Ukrainians how this coalition and the prime minister are going through. Because there's a suspicion that the leaders of our state are burning something out there and they can't determine our future country, our composition of government and the Prime Minister. In fact, the question is very sharp and very important. For example, a few days ago, I was visiting the city of Krivi Rig, where I met with the tradesmen and the labor team of the Crevice-Creatured ArsalorMittal Steel. So, despite almost twice the devaluation of the bracelets, the downsizing of the EU several times and the actual increase in sales of the company, the salary of the ordinary Ukrainians who work there, and more than 20,000 of them, increased by only 12 percent. I believe that the first steps of the future Prime Minister should be to put these Hindu capitalists in place and force them to raise wages for those who work hard. And at least to ensure the implementation of a collective agreement that does not provide that they will skin off the final skin even of children who are forced to pay for their children to learn in the company’s groups. We call on you, on behalf of the trade unions, all of you to finally come to your senses and responsibilities and to make the decisions of the Ukrainian people, the common people, regarding the Prime Minister and the coalition. For for a month, the state has not been governed or governed for two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u53	Mr. Kaplin, I'm warning you once again that if the speech isn't on the subject of the bill, I'm going to take the floor. You had a unique chance to talk about the fight against smoking, and you lost it so thoughtlessly. Dear colleagues, I am now. There'll be a vote in 30 seconds. I'd like my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Call a co-deputy from the towers. So I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the ratification by Ukraine of the WHO Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco (number 4119) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[11:20:57]] For 232 Decision taken. And I'm announcing a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2016 (4342). There is an offer from the committee head to consider a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:21:38]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to report. Princess Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. As you know, once a year, when we're preparing a decree to mark the commemorative dates, sometimes you, fellow MPs, come along and ask, remind us of a date that applies to their region and meets the criteria set by the President. This time, among such dates is 125 years since the establishment of the Poltava National Science Museum of Cretsevsky, and this was requested by the faction of "The Fatherschina"; 100 years since the beginning of the preparation of construction personnel at the Trans-Provoia State Academy of Construction and Architecture, requested by the faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko", a deputy from this faction. 100 years after the establishment of the State Institute, the Dnipropetrov Medical Academy of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, at the suggestion of a deputy from the Rebirth. 75 years since the formation of the Polish Sichi Taras Bulby-Borovitz with the National Memory Institute. And the representative of the People's Front has now turned, there's a determination, I suggest you add it, it's a round date, too, 450 years of giving Magdeburg the right to the city of Hmelnick. The committee considered all of this with the exception of the last paragraph, which I propose to put to the vote and ask my colleagues to support the marking of these memorable dates of importance for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Shipko Andri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u56	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. I would like us to focus now and support the actual vote on such sign dates as should be noted by our country as a whole. I represent the Dnepropetrov region, I was a student of the Dnepropetrov Medical Academy, which was founded in 1916, and this year marks its 100th anniversary in September. During that time, more than 50,000 doctors were released, and during various periods of our State's history, it was the doctors at the front and in their hospitals who always kept Hippocratic oaths. Today you all know how much information you have. That Dnepropetrovsk has established a base for the rehabilitation and treatment of wounded who come from the front. Let's support the surgeons, let's support our professors, who save hundreds and thousands of residents and our best fighters every day in the O.R. every day. I would also like to say that he is the head of the Academy of Medical Sciences, Professor Dziak Georgiy Viktorovich. Let us honor and praise the famous group of the Dnepropetrov Medical Academy and mark the 100th anniversary of our country at the State level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have only one more speaker. So I'd like to ask my fellow deputies to come into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. And now I give the floor to Pavelko Andri Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u58	I now give the floor to Kulitenko Ivanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, two higher education institutions located in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, the tradition of these institutions is very profound. Moreover, we ask for support in the decision, considering that there is no need for government funds. All the celebrations are being held by the public of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please inform the deputies that there will be a vote to take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "On the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016", number 4342, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:26:43]] For 219 Dear colleagues, let's just give it a simple advice. That's a man from 5-7 just walked out of the hall. I'm asking you to listen to me for a minute. Just got out of the hall, man 5-7. They were surrounded by their colleagues who were actively aspiring that this decision should be adopted. They didn't even tell them there was going to be a vote, stay in the hall. I'm not going to put and raise factions out of the hall dozens of times. Either we all become accomplices and coworkers in making decisions, and each of us will be almost responsible, or we will not be able to work effectively. Guys, I'm gonna put you on the way back one day. But I ask very much not only for discipline, but for understanding the processes that are taking place. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the marking of memorial dates, the Jubilee (4342). Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the hearing, please vote. Please. [[11:28:11]] For 232 Decision taken. We're back. And now I'm voting on the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016 (number 4342) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:28:46]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the decision-makers. And we're going to chapter "First Reading." The first is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on restoring trust between borrowers and creditors (number 2286a). The committee suggested that he be considered on the basis of a reduced procedure. Who supports the review of the 2286a short procedure, please vote. Please vote. Who supports the simplified procedure. [[11:29:32]] For-157. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. He's both a reporter and a co-reporter, so I'm asking you to give the Rules 4 minutes to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u61	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, your view is presented by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to restore trust between borrowers and creditors (number 2286a of 03.07. 15 years of age. This bill was developed with the banking community. We gathered bankers and asked them: what is needed to restore credit? And they made their remarks, except for macroeconomic changes, they said that there were problems: with the limitation of creditors' rights in bankruptcy proceedings; an ineffective institution of trust; the existence of laws that allowed mortgages to be terminated in court, despite the existence of outstanding debt owed to the creditor; insufficiently regulated debt collection procedures, including in inheritance; the risk of bank losses as a result of self-sustainment; and gaps in legislation that allow debtors to borrow property without the consent of the holder. We've worked it all out. And I think we should start an economy and allow banks to start lending to our country's businesses. The adoption of Bill 2286a will address the issues that create obstacles to restoring credit to the national economy, as well as issues that generate additional risks in the activities of banking institutions. What have we changed in this bill? This removed the illegal disposal of assets from the bank's burden, provided a contractual settlement of the arrangement and the withdrawal of funds from bank accounts, clearly defined the terms of termination, excluded the possibility of using the State's social guarantees to evade repayment of the loan, and much more. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion, makes some observations and suggestions to the bill, but they may be included in the second reading. The National Bank considers the bill to be relevant and supports it. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concluded. He made his remarks. In view of this, the committee further considered the comments and proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers at its meeting of 08.12.2015, taking into account such observations regarding the repayment of mortgages for self - constructed reconstructed immovable property items that were not defined by mortgage contracts. Comments were also taken into account regarding the mechanism of reconciliation between the creditor and the territorial community of terms of compliance with creditors' requirements, including changes to article 16 of the Law on Mortgage. We're here to support the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're also proposing to give up change. In connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Bills 26. Oh, 2506a and 2507a, which introduce new approaches in the area of implementation, and we also support the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and we propose at this stage not to amend the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. I would like to point out that without the adoption of the bill, it is impossible to quickly restore credit and increase the investment attractiveness of Ukraine by eliminating the gaps in legislation and improving the mechanism for protecting creditors' rights. The bill is also provided for in paragraph 173 of the legislative reform plan, which will enable the problem to be addressed. with negative classified assets and non-performing liabilities undertaken by Ukraine in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding on Economic and Financial Policy. The committee at its meeting also supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u62	Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u63	Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to restore trust between borrowers and creditors, taking into account the proposals made in exchange. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u64	Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Sugonako Alexander gives the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u65	We support this bill, obviously, is relevant and necessary for the order of the banking system, and for the relationship between borrowers and creditors. But I'm going to express my point of view. I don't think we're going to change the critical situation in this area without developing a new course. To my profound belief, the path to order in the banking system depends on our political will to nationalize individual banks and stop this speculative Sabbath of oligarchs and corruption at the National Bank of Ukraine. And last of all, I'm addressing MPs, High Commissioners of the People's Front. Please stop applauding the giggles and jokes of the chairman about my performances. And please remember that Alexander Sugonjak and I can write another statement and we will go to the election tomorrow. "Golden Action" today, political "gold action" in the hands of the common people. And for the sake of these simple people today, we are maintaining stability in Parliament and giving Parliament a chance to overcome the political crisis, to give birth to a new prime minister, a new course, a new government, and to rule this country, and to put an end to this injustice and lawlessness, and to the absence of any government in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u66	Ephraim’s Irina Alexiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u67	The People's Front faction will support this bill and I invite everyone to join in this support. And I think it's very necessary today for the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u68	So the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask that you inform the deputies that a vote is about to take place. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, may we vote? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to restore trust between creditors and creditors number 2286a on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:38:28]] For 202 The decision is not taken. According to the regulations, we still have the opportunity to return to the committee for further work. And I'm betting on the next proposal to return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and vote. Whoever supports the proposal to return draft law 2286a to the committee for re-reading, please vote. Please vote. [[11:39:24]] For 211 That offer didn't work either. I can still put the last one in place, return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. There's still this kind of maneuver. So I bet, otherwise the bill will be rejected. Colleagues, so once again, take back the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (2286). There was already such an offer, not supported by the hall. The hall was not supported. Now the subject. So once again, I propose that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Law 2286a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:40:30.]] For 215 215 for. Regrettably, the political will of the House is unbreakable with regard to this bill, which the bill declares to be rejected. We move on to the next draft of the Act amending the Act on Waste (2950). There is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:41:10]] For-157. 157 for. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Trigubenko Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we see that the hall doesn't work. It doesn't work for many reasons. I want to inform you that this bill, which we are currently considering, shows what kind of genocide against the Ukrainian people is at the moment in Ukraine. We've got a war, we've got an economic crisis, but it's scary -- we've got an environmental crisis, folks! This law introduces amendments to the Waste Act. I want to stop what hazardous waste is. Dangerous wastes, venerables, are mercury, lead, lead oxide, telurium, and other dangerous substances that have been harmful to our generations for 300 years on earth. I want all of us to focus now on what our children's future depends on this bill. I want to tell you something else: 290 licences are issued by the Ministry of Ecology for hazardous waste management, for disposal of these wastes. And they're being disposed of in the landings, in the rivers, in the neighborhood of our city. So, Your Honor, this bill of each and every one of you has to be full-blown. I want to report to you that we're introducing a number of rights in this bill, that licensing for the disposal of hazardous waste is only issued to enterprises that have a material and technical base. These are factories that are able to dispose of mercury and other wastes, other hazardous wastes. Secondly, we bring this legislation to the European legislative initiatives of the Waste Act, namely control over these.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u70	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u71	and the disposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and to wish that our future should be not only political but also healthy for our children, our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u72	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of the Foreigner. Environmental exploitation and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting decided to support Bill 2950, since this bill applies to some extent to each of us. You know, there's an article in the Criminal Code of Ukraine that gives a clear definition of the ecocid. Ecocidal is the destruction of all living things around us. Today, too, the system of handling hazardous wastes that exists in Ukraine today is leading to the ecocidation of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, today there has been a discussion of the issues that the bill deals with packaging and packaging materials. Yes, indeed, it refers to packaging and packaging materials, but please do not confuse packaging and packaging materials that go to the fourth class of danger and become common household waste, and packaging materials used to transport, store and transport hazardous substances, such as plant protection products, pesticides and agrochemicals. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support our committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u74	Colleagues, please, let's write two in favour, two in the opposite. Igor Lapin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to return to the hall and support this bill. Well, first of all, I'm stressing the moment that we have a license issue going on right now, let's say it's an unnatural way, so almost everyone takes it in a row without having the technical ability to process this waste. And then we find these wastes buried in the woods, in the ditches, and so on. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u76	From Self-Help. Now it's Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u77	I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to thank the Tomenka committee’s head for his very professional work. In fact, you and I are considering a bill that needs to be decided today. I want to remind you of some technical details. The reporter did not say today that those importers who import mercury, lead, harmful medical supplies, butter, today are to pay for the disposal of certain companies that are to do so. Instead, it turned into that these companies are just being created to do money-laundering, to plot these costs, they don't have a material and technical base, they don't have some space to dispose of these wastes. And it is by this law, colleagues, that it is proposed to prohibit the transfer or sale of hazardous waste to legal and physical persons who do not have an available material and technical base, and to recognize the principles of licensing that are precisely the availability of necessary facilities, and, above all, the presentation of the registration map of the facility for processing and disposal, that is to avoid spilling into the landings, into the rivers and polluting our ecology. "Paternality" will support this bill, which has been drafted, once again, by the Committee of Tomenka, and I thank him personally for supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u79	Thank you. Musiyczuk conveys the word of Chizmaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this law actually looks very positive and very positive standards are laid down for hazardous wastes, but all of this law fits a norm that clearly does not go into understanding yet. For example, when imported into Ukraine, any goods that have packaging and packaging that need to be disposed of must be determined immediately with their disposal. Thus, all importers who import products into Ukraine make a contract with one company that receives all the costs for disposal, but in doing so these goods travel throughout the country and are collected by completely different companies, including utility companies, and the money for disposal is given to one single company that has, of course, this licence for hazardous waste, although packaging and packaging do not refer 100 percent to dangerous goods. So, as far as I'm concerned, there's a corrupt mechanism here, and I think that this bill needs to be sent for work in order to remove all corruption from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Soloway, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Oleg Nedava.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I want to say that in this law, what touches packaging and packaging only touches packagings and packages that carry dangerous substances. That's all that matters. And I suggest that you take it in the first reading. In order for our colleagues to have no objection, we will continue to work on the committee and place some emphasis on it. Because the introduction of this law will allow our children not to play with those poisonous lamps that we find because they are carried by phantom firms that have no material or technical basis on their balance. I'm very much asking you to uphold this law, because he's going to put this dot down, he's going to put a dot on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u84	Thank you. Markevich, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u85	The Self-Help faction will support Bill 2950 on first reading. And we'd like to request a special ministry. As usual, the devil hides in pieces. What colleagues previously said was a matter of licensing conditions under which licences would be issued. It's very important to prescribe, it'll already be your area of responsibility, to prescribe these licensing conditions correctly. Only those with appropriate equipment and facilities are allowed to dispose of it. In order not to be successful as in the past, as the current rules under which people have obtained, for example, a transport licence and have already done so. That's the first one. And the second. There may be no vote. Let's try the alarm. And if anything, then we'll finish the discussion if there are no votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u86	Please, Rybak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u87	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. My fellow Members, I would like once again to point out that this bill applies exclusively to hazardous wastes and packagings and packaging materials that have been in contact with hazardous substances and as a result have become wastes. Decree 915 of the Ukrainian Ministers’ Office, which regulated the circulation of packaging and packaging materials in the import regime in Ukraine, thanks to which one of the government’s former companies was raising huge funds, is not working and cancelled today. And no one is collecting these funds today. So once again, I invite everyone to vote. It's a very important law. And we waited a year to see him in the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u88	All those in favor of the bill have spoken. We've heard all the points of view. I'd like to consult you. Colleagues, look. The previous bill was extremely important, and in fact it became a victim of the absence of discipline. And there's probably a logic to the fact that the Self-Help faction suggests that we shouldn't vote by signal by law, it's going to be wrong, but we've just determined whether there's a voting potential in the voting room. If there's no voting potential in the room, then we'll postpone the vote at a time when we can make the decision. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall now, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute until the deputies enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u89	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I have a huge request. Let's stop the voting practice, or we'll never have any discipline in the hall. If the presiding officer calls every five minutes: come to your place of work, do your constitutional duty, we will have hundreds of times a signal vote. Let it be the responsibility of the national deputies of Ukraine. There's a rule, there's a procedure-- put it to the vote. It's not a decision, the deputies have to sit in the hall. Otherwise, we will never have discipline, we will not put the deputies in order. I insist that the law be voted on in accordance with the Rules, not by a signal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Victor. I have great respect for your opinion. As you noted, for example, there was no signal vote yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a signal vote, not on the bill, but on the signal vote envisaged by the Rules, to identify potential in the hall. It's not the bill, it's just whether or not he's in a position to make decisions right now. And let's figure it out, and then we'll make decisions. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the signal vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Please. [[11:55:16]] For-182 The MPs are ready to make important decisions for the country and responsible decisions, but that is not enough to make decisions. And I, according to the Rules, hereby declare a recess until 12:30. At 12.30 p.m., I'm asking you to meet me in the conference room to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. However, according to article 51, part seven, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, it was reported to the Bureau that two MP factions were required to declare a recess at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the MP faction of the People's Front and the MP faction of Peter Dustenk. They're coming through. Two factions applied for recess. They're already in session, the break is about to begin. No, not for the application, but for the break. And, honourable colleagues, so I think it would be right if we closed the morning meeting. Important processes are under way. And I think it'll be wise, and I think the Hall will back me up on that. So it's a declared break. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. I want common sense, national thinking, and I hope that we will be able to make decisions that are important and responsible for the country. Thank you. Fruitful committee work, bill discussions, and tomorrow. Thank you.
