ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I very much ask the distinguished fellow members of the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for work. As long as the MPs enter the hall, I want to report the misunderstanding that occurred before the break. The next day was not the Alona Shkrum Bill. Alana, could I have your attention, please? Alona. It wasn't Alona Skrum's bill, it was supposed to be after a few. She was meeting with the French ambassador at the time. But at the same time, I would like to say that even meeting with the Ambassador, even meeting with international delegations, is no reason not to be in the plenary meeting room when making decisions. I very much ask all fellow members of the national MPs, planning their meetings, important and responsible, not to assign them when making decisions, because we have laws of great importance, and our responsibility to the citizens, to the Ukrainians who chose us, is to be in the hall and work. And so I urge everyone to plan international meetings so that they do not fall into plenary meetings. Thank you very much, colleagues. Now I'd like to ask you a question. But please come into the hall, get ready for registration, and then we'll have a little meeting on the next agenda. Colleagues, are we ready to register? Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Please register. [[16:05:06]] 328 national deputies are registered in the hall. 328 is a victory. Dear colleagues, we are likely to make separate decisions about whether we have our cards registered or whether we have our deputies registered. I think only a written registration can be a sign that the deputies are in the hall. Because we have cards in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I'm just gonna take a look at this meeting. I support Vladi's proposal that we have written registration as a sign, because electronic registration is very often just propaganda, just propaganda. Thank you very much, colleagues. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I'd like to consult you on the next question. Please, colleagues, pay attention! When I want to consult with the hall, I want the hall to hear me. We have today included in the agenda the draft Act amending subsection 4, paragraph 24, of section VI, "Towards and Transitions" of the Ukrainian Budget Code. This law provides for the redistribution of the remaining funds of the local budgets of the settlements in which the public authorities temporarily do not exercise their powers. This question is being initiated by our major MPs in Donetsk, Lugansk, and as far as I know, this question is fully united by the Hall. This question was passed by a committee. On the committee, it was unanimously supported by all the members of the committee. We've included him in the afternoon in the agenda and therefore we have the full right to put him under the Rules now if there are no objections to that. It also applies to those bills that need immediate solutions for those areas that are under occupation today. And so I would just like to consult you informally, can we set it up and start looking at it? We're going to have a discussion for at least 15-20 minutes. We have a chance that during that period the deputies will enter the hall. So let's just have an open exchange of thoughts. Does Self-Help support this proposal? The discussion is supportive. "Paternity"? You'll support it. Peter Dustenka's Block supports this proposal, yes, to put it. People's Front, do you support the setup? "Rebirth," "The Will of the People," do you support this bill? You'll support it. The Opposition Block, who's in charge of this? You'll support it, won't you? It may be a bill that unites the entire hall because it is. "Radical Party"? It's a bill that's forewarned. The non-faulty ones don't deny it. Dear colleagues, the entire room supports so that we can now put this bill on the table. And that's why I'm announcing the first question of our consideration of the draft law on the redistribution of the remaining funds of the local budgets of the settlements in which the public authorities are temporarily failing to exercise their powers. This is draft Law 4623. And I have a proposal from the author, Ukrainian national deputy Efimov Maxima Viktorovich, that we should consider it as a reduced procedure. And I'm asking my fellow national MPs to take this proposal into account, the author and also the committee. Now I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So who supports the proposal to review the draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 24, paragraph 24, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (number 4623) for a reduced procedure? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:10:16]] For a hundred and 130 for. Colleagues, I'm going to make this offer again. If we do not have the necessary number of votes, we will consider it as a complete procedure. I'm asking you, colleagues, this is really a very simple question. I myself am a proponent of having us consider important bills in full procedure, but given, I think, it might be possible to think about it in a nutshell. But it is exclusively the political will of the hall. And that's why I'm going to put this motion to the vote again. If there's any support, let's think about a shortcut. There'll be no backup. We'll follow full procedure. Therefore, who supports the proposal for a hearing of 4623 on a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[16:11:22]] For 133 There's no Parliament's will. We're going in full procedure, and I'll bet. And I'm asking for a report from the Ukrainian national deputy, Efimov Maxima Viktorovich. Please report, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u3	Dear Andrei Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! For the past 10 months, together with Donetsk OGA and a group of active deputies, namely: Irina Gerashchenko, Arthur Gerasimov, Oleg Nedaeva, Andre Gordeev, Dmitri Lubinc, Alexei Rybczyn, Mustafa Najem, Maria Ionova, Pavel Kishkar, Vitali Kurilo, Yuri Garbuza, Natalia Wesselova and Oleg Krishin, we have been working closely on the restoration of Donbass. During this time, we have found a solution by proposing a mechanism for the effective use of the budget of the non-controlled territories of Donbass to restore its Ukrainian part. We see a bridge between Kramatorsky and Slaviansky. I'd like to, if I may, have photos, show some slides, show the bridge. Next slide. This is the bridge between the two cities. For two years between the two major cities of Ukraine, people cannot travel from one city to another. Because that's how long we can't find the money to get these bridges back on track. Unfortunately, these two years we've only been declaring, but nothing at all. No money can be allocated for the restoration of Donbass. We have been trying for 10 months to launch an initiative that will really help the region. We've been told there's no money. We did not wait and find the resource ourselves. They prepared and adopted Ukrainian law 714 as early as October of last year. It turns out that Minfin had taken the money, but it didn't reach the region. By then, we had drafted Bill 4197, which had already passed the first reading. But there, the IMF saw the risks of creating a budget deficit. Today's version of this decision is Bill 4623, which we registered last week and received positive decisions from Minfin, the GNEU, the budget committee. The document is a compromise that does not violate anything and does not create any risks. It is he who will provide the necessary resources for the restoration of the Donbass infrastructure and will give the opportunity to change people's attitude towards power to the best. During the 10 months of the city and the Donetsk region, 650 different infrastructure projects, school repairs, road rehabilitation and bridge rehabilitation were prepared for their own money. The resumption of water supply in some regions is another issue. Please unite and vote in favour of this bill to finally give people a chance to see what Ukraine thinks of them. Please support Bill 4623. Thank you. On first reading. If possible, Andrej Vladimirović, I would like to ask for a hall, this bill is essentially a half-page, this bill we passed, it is a bill in exchange for Law 4197, in fact, passed through all committees, and I ask that it be put on the basis of it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u4	Thank you very much. I understand and know the importance of this bill, and thank you very much for the active position you are taking on this subject, but I can't replace the will of the room. Hall has made a decision on full procedure, we will follow full procedure. And then, if there's no objection, I'm going to set up a committee position. Let's get to it. We have three minutes. The question to the reporter, and I forgive you for recording the question to the reporter on this question, please. Markevich Jaroslav, please. Markevich Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u5	Markevich, the Self-Help faction. Please explain to the rapporteur what it is like to have one of the banks on the list of payments to which the amount will be paid. What was the reason for the bank's appearance and why did it even show up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u6	Donetsk City, Donetsk City, took credit in 2012 at Ukreximbank. The money that is expected to be removed from the local budget of Donetsk, which is in the area of 700 million grevens, will first go to the repayment of this loan already taken in the past. In fact, Minfin insisted on this issue. But we agreed to that because, however, it would be necessary to prefinance, recapitalize the Ukreximbank State, or simply pay with the money that is currently in the accounts, first credit, and then transfer the rest of the money to the territory controlled by the Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Rybczyn Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u8	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I'd like to ask the reporter if he's from Kramatski. We've adopted a bill that introduces ProZorro in the Donetsk region as a priority, it already works there. But we've got information from activists trying to raise the threshold from 10,000 to 50,000 in Kramatorsky and take a lot of these purchases out of ProZorro. And I think it's a very big corruption risk. And as the Mayor elected from this city, please make an effort to report that this money will be used exclusively through ProZorro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u9	I'll take it. The Hall voted several weeks ago in favour of our Bill 4199 and introduced the ProZorro system, starting in May throughout Donetsk, throughout the Donetsk region. This was done precisely to enable all cities to prepare a little bit, realizing that there would be a lot of funding using the ProZorro system to remove the corruption component. That is why the money that is to be transferred to the unoccupied territory of the Donetsk region today will go through the ProZorro system without exception. That there is such an initiative in Kramatorska today, I hope that the city of Kramatorska, as well as the members of the City Council of Kramatorska, will not vote in favour of the decision to go over the threshold of 10,000, go away for 50,000. And I'm gonna do everything I can to make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u10	Thank you very much. Last question Ivchenko Vadim. But we will have the opportunity to speak to everyone, so don’t worry about those who signed up. Please, Ivchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u11	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I am interested in the next question. We have renters, farm workers, in the settlements in this area, especially in the rural, village councils. And so it happens that they can't harvest their crops because there's an ATO area there, a lot of military parts standing in the fields. And today they pay rent and a single tax, i.e. where they can't collect their crops and get profits. They asked us to take this into account in the bill. Tell me, please, is it the bill that says that exactly where it's impossible to get profits from any enterprise or I'm talking about a farmer not to pay rent for state or municipal land and also the only tax that goes in the budget place. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u12	We voted in favour of Law 4048 today, which solves this problem. It's a different law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we only have three minutes to ask, but we'll have plenty of time to speak. I invite the head of the committee's committee on budget Kulichenko Ivanovich to report. Please, Kulchenko Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! Indeed, this is true of the funds that were accumulated in the treasury account on September 1, last year. We've already passed the law, but it wasn't implemented last year. On 11 May, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 4623, clarifying the position regarding the management of the remaining funds of the local budgets of the Donetské and Luhansk oblasts, where the authorities do not exercise their powers. In particular, it is envisaged that the funds will be temporarily accounted for in the general fund of appropriate district budgets and that they will be expanded directly. The author has already said that on April 12 we passed the law in the first reading, which, when approved, 4197, should be repealed. The committee therefore adopted this decision: recommending Bill 4623 to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account that Bill 4623 deals with matters in a different way, and Bill 4197 loses its relevance. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u15	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to record the question-answer to your co-rapporteur, and it's also given three minutes. Please hold the recording. Igor Lucenko. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u16	Pass the Alexia to Rybczyn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u17	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Do I have a question for a co-conspirator about the procedure? how this money is going to be implemented into the community, how these projects are going to be chosen, whether it's transparent, or how to minimize the level of corruption that we're trying to minimize through ProZorro, and how can we minimize, let's say, the personal factor when a person chooses to allocate funds to a particular project. And please tell the whole of Ukraine and the people what projects and what criteria they're going to choose to claim for these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u18	Thank you for asking. The cost of local budgets will be listed as a subsidy to the budgets of the Donetské and Lugansk region, and a list of projects to be considered and carried out. Project implementation is going to be through ProZorro, and that's why I don't see any abuse issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u19	Thank you very much. Please, Yvchenka. Please, Borislav Bereza. Mr. Borislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the question of the return of Donbas to Ukraine becomes one of the most important. What's more, I want to say that it's very important to understand what kind of area this cost is going to be in right now? I came back from Donbas recently, and I saw that there's a difference between the attitude of the population to where the infrastructure is being restored and where nothing is being done at all. So this money that now needs to be sent to rebuild the infrastructure, we have to be very careful about allocating it. Why? Because there can't be anyone putting this money in their pockets. So I support this bill and I want to say that, aside from issuing money, we have to control their distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u21	Thank you. Please give an answer, Efimov Maxim Viktorovich will answer. That's the deal you made with each other, isn't it? It's okay. Please, Maxim Viktorovich Jephimov will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u22	Borislav, I have here a list of objects that, in principle, we can make it an item of property. I think that now the representatives of SDA will hear this and will be able to inform the entire public of Ukraine. There are 100 dormitories, 16 water supply lines, 8 heattrasses, 1,000 425 electrical facilities, 24 kindergartens, 72 schools, 7 vocational schools, 3 VUZA, 14 hospitals, 2 families, 17 outpatients, 3 WAFs, 500 kilometres of roads and about 10 bridges. All of this will be restored through the ProZorro system, and today all the facts that exist, possible, potential, corruption, they're all lit up all the time, we see it in Facebook and everywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u23	Thank you very much. And the final question is, Vojtsicka is passing on the word of Veselov, the final question in this chapter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u24	Good afternoon! I have a question for the committee head. This is, in principle, a very good thing because Donetsk and Lugansk have been affected, and, in fact, the main mass of migrants lives in the Donetsk and Lugansk region. This can be said to have affected not only the population that has moved to the control areas but also the affected are receiving communities. Their needs have increased. And I wanted to ask the head of the committee: will they control the distribution of these funds and control the priorities that will be determined by the Lugansk and Donetsk military-civil administrations?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u25	Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. We have considered this issue three times before the committee. Once again, I stress that these are the costs of the local budgets of Donetsk and Lugansk Region and Control. We have written down in our decision that the control of the lists of objects and their use by the Committee of Budgets leaves behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u27	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Now we have the next chapter -- these are the factions of the factions. And I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. And please record the factions. Please. Vitaly Semenovich, Petra Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will be supported by the Peter Prashenko bloc, because we believe that really Donbas and Ukrainian Donbas can be helped today, primarily by funding. You know, over the past few years, people have listened to different things. A lot of different things, but people who live there, people who stay, people who believe in Ukrainian power, need real help first. Real help can come when we repair roads that, unfortunately, are not actually available in Donbas today. Real help can come when we give people a place to live, when we can at least repair dormitories, when we can get the movers, the young specialists to give them apartments. Real help will be when we repair schools and when we give school buses, real help is kindergartens, it's bridges, it's all that the reporter said. And I believe that today, conditions have been created for this Ukrainian Donbas to rebuild and show that part of the deception that remains under the control of the Russian invaders today, shows her that the Ukrainian authorities care about Donbas. And Donbas was, is and will be Ukrainian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u29	Thank you. From the People's Front, Masorin Olena Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will be able to support this bill because we need to support our citizens on the Donbass. But to support not only loud statements and words on the air or from the rostrum, but also concrete actions, to show that the country of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State is and is returning to the liberation of the terrorists of the territory. In particular, Minister Habakkuk launched a new police force in Slavyansk and Kramitarsk last Saturday. Along with the minister of infrastructure, we inspected the infrastructure that had already taken place in 2014, after the liberation of Slaviansk from the terrorists, and we were on the same bridge that we were shown in the photographs. So imagine that the Department of State Special Transportation Services, under the chairmanship of Lieutenant General Malkova, has been leading and guarding the passage across the River of the River of Siverskie Donets for the second year in a row. So the peace was calculated with the minister, it was cheaper to rebuild that city than we're paying our wages right now, and our boys are there day and night, on that transport. That's why we all need to support this bill together and not speak at last, but prove in deeds that we're going back to the freed territories and that Donbas is really part of Ukraine, independent, free, European. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u32	Thank you very much. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich has a word from the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u33	Please pass the word to Ryabchin's colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u34	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. In fact, it's a very important bill, and I invite my colleagues to support it. But what we're doing is showing all the powerlessness in Donetskin that we're trying to find funds in the state budget and rebuild projects to channel the costs of foreign donor investors, we're taking from the territory that's now occupied, and we're trying to operate on these things. These images that we've been looking at in Semenowci, where power can't restore this bridge for just two years, because the flip goes -- whether the local authorities have to do it or in Kiev. I mean, it's a shame, and it's a diagnosis! We have to fight for our pro-Ukrainian Donbas. Our boys defend the territory, and we have to fight for the hearts and minds of people. An example of this was the bill, for example, voted by the Supreme Council a month ago, allowing graduates from Donetsk and Luhansk, from the occupied temporary part, to have the right to study in higher education institutions, in the displaced, Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Hall supported this bill, all the factions. I also call for the support of all factions of this bill. I have a proposal from the vote to further control from the Parliament of the Budget Committee, so that we can still prevent corruption at the local level, where it will be through ProZorro, and that the committee will still look at those budget projects and proposals that come in so that we don't talk about this process and that this idea is not discredited. And I propose and publicly call upon the authorities of Donetsk and Lugansk to restore the dormitories for the transferred higher education institutions and institutions of Mariupol, Kramatorska, Severodonec, which were there. We need to get the students, we need to get our young people out of the occupied territory, we need to move them there, we need to take out our patriot teachers who exported these higher education institutions, and we need to take care of the settlers. That's why I want us to take care of these people. I would like to invite everyone to support and thank the Ministry of Education and Science for supporting our bills, including for supporting the bills currently being drafted for the higher education institutions being moved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u35	Thank you. And welcome to Papiev Mikhail's word from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u37	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens living throughout Ukraine! What is the point of this bill? Before we can characterize it, we need to understand whether we are giving up the part of Donbass that is uncontrollable or uncontrollable. What is the point of this bill? It is now about the money that is in the local budget. This money was received from law-abiding taxpayers: enterprises, Ukrainian citizens, in the form of a tax on the income of individuals who have entered local budgets. There is no reference to the transfer of budgetary resources from the State budget. These local budget funds were accumulated by the State. Of course, they cannot be distributed under budgetary classification codes, since local self-government authorities are not now legitimate, since they are temporarily occupied territory. On the basis of this concept: whether we renounce those territories or not, we need to move on. Here's a representative of Peter Poshenko's Block said, "We need to show one part of Donbass how we take care of her so that the other part of Donbass can see how we're upset." And I don't know what Donbass' support will be when one part of Donbass is taken away from money that doesn't belong to another part of Donbass. All territorial communities are equal, it's like taking money from the Lviv Mountains and sending, for example, to Donbass to rebuild the infrastructure. I'm just setting an example. Or from the mountains of any other city. The Opposition Block faction insists that we should reintegrate these territories because there are people who consider themselves citizens of Ukraine. Enterprises that, at their own risk and at their own risk, have deposited these funds in the accounts of the State Department. They carried out their duties as taxpayer in accordance with the Ukrainian Tax Code. And now we are going to use this money for that part of the area that is under the control of the Ukrainian authorities. So what do you call it if it's not a robbery? Robbery, because it doesn't happen in secret, not in silence, but in public, by covering it up with beautiful slogans, that we're going to show some parts of Donbass how we care about them. We must take care of both the part of Donbass, which is controlled and give a clear and clear message in the form of three billion bracelets (3 billion bracelets) registered in the accounts of the State Department and which we must immediately send to restore the authorized infrastructure of the part of Donetsk and Lugansk areas that are uncontrollable. Moreover, we must attract foreign investors to rebuild Donbass, not to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u38	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up. But in those 30 seconds, tell me that you support this bill if you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u39	In the wording proposed, we cannot support it, as this money is therefore the money of local budgets. They cannot be managed by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with existing legislation, since they are in the relevant fiscal classification codes. The codes correspond to local budgets. This money cannot be channelled either to the general fund of the regional budgets or to public budgets. This money must be preserved for the restoration of Donbass in his reintegration. Here's our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so you don't have an emotional breakdown in the room, I want to inform you that we are considering a full-procedure bill. All the factions are about to come out, and now they're going to come out of self-help, and they're going to come out from the self-help representative who signed up. Then I'll give the word to Geller. And then we'll have speeches from the deputies. And while I'm at it, I'm sure Mustafa will be on the list, or one of his colleagues will give him the word. That is, anyone who has a desire to speak will be able to express himself. Now from the factions, I'm handing over the word now from the self-help faction of Victoria Vojcitsky. Then Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u42	Thank you. The Self-Help faction will support this bill, we will vote in favour on first reading. However, a few points were welcome. First, we require strict control over the use of funds; of course, all purchases must be made through the ProZorro system and with a specified limit of 20,000 bracelets per contract, not by the classification, but by contract, that is convenient enough and all participants are able to meet this requirement. Second, the list of sites should be further agreed upon, and the budget committee was well suited for that purpose, so the list of sites should be agreed with Parliament. Thirdly, between the first and second readings, it is proposed to discuss the possibility of establishing territories where these repairs could not be carried out technically, since the submission of the Levchenko colleague to the budget committee. We propose to return to it and establish a territory approximately 10 kilometres from the front line on which the work should not be carried out. And the fourth, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Ministry of Profiles to finally tell us, since we've come up with how we use donor funds to rebuild Donbass. We allocate this money, what other money has been allocated, and how have they been used? So that we don't accidentally double-use the same object. Thank you. If possible, please pass the remaining one-and-a-half minutes to your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u43	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, you can't pass it on. We're about to have a statement from the deputies, and I'm sure someone will come out of "self-help." I'll hold my fists for you. Please, Geller. Turn on Geller's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u44	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. 50th District, Donetsk Region, Heller. I want to move away from politics to the economy. Andrej Vladimirovich, Andrey Vladimirovich, I want you to listen to me in order to make the voices of the Rebirth faction. I want to make a little note and get the guys who did the bill to make it. If this is the form of an interest-free loan that communities are transferring that are not currently under the Ukrainian administration in Donetsk, the regional budget. Given that since they become Ukrainian, the State has guaranteed the return of these funds to the communities, I am confident that both our faction and all the factions in which the representatives of Donetsk and the Lugansk region are present will support the bill. Therefore, I ask that this bill be amended and that we, with the legal office, complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u45	Thank you. We're going to have a chapter on "Performance from the People's Deputies." During this discussion, I ask you to consult the head of the committee. If the head of the committee in the closing word says that this amendment is supported, I'm actually going to put it in the form that the committee head is going to give. As far as I know, there have been prior consultations. Use that time to negotiate with each other. And if the committee head points out, I'll put it in that paper. Please. Dear colleagues, the factions have come to an end. Now, speak to the national MPs. From "the will of the people," okay. Please. Ribczynski of the will of the people. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u46	It's a very interesting situation at all, and after that, especially the Opposition Block. We recognize the Supreme Council that an aggressor country is operating in that area, and Russia has been recognized as an aggressor country, which is actually ruled by its puppet terrorists. On the other hand, from our budget, which is scarce, we put money there. And now that the question is to give money to those areas that we can control and we can develop, there are other questions, because some businesses are paying for something else. First, show us what they pay. And secondly, we're going to decide how much to finance those who are there and who are our supporters there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u47	Thank you. So now we're moving on to the chapter "Performances from the People's Deputies." And I'm asking colleagues of the people's deputies who wanted to speak, self-help, Mustafa, Peter Prashenko's Block, who would like to speak, just ask. It is now recorded by the national deputies of Ukraine. Please hold the recording, please. Semenha Roman is referring to the wedding word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u48	The Donetsk and Luhansk region are looking forward to the adoption of this bill because, in fact, these receiving communities have suffered greatly from the influx of people who are. The Donetsk and Lugansk administrations need to think about how to rebuild infrastructure, how to create new jobs, how to support displaced entities, government authorities that have evacuated. There are a lot of questions that need to be resolved right now by the military-civil authorities in the area. But in all of this, we have a very long and long period of time that doesn't solve the issue of compensation for damaged and damaged housing, which is private and cooperative, because for the restoration of housing belonging to municipal property, we have subsidies and private housing is still being destroyed. You can come to the city of Slavyansk, come to Seminovka and see these houses, which have just been destroyed for two years now, and people have no place to live, people live in us or in apartments or, if they don’t have the money to rent, they live in garages, barns, and so on. This too needs to be taken into account, and it is necessary to set aside funds. And colleague Dudenkov said that these were local budgets, but people who had previously lived in uncontrollable areas had moved to controlled areas, and these funds, including those, should go to provide for their needs in a controlled area. So the Self-Help faction will support this bill. The only thing that's bothering us is really a control system, so we're going to vote on the basis, and we're going to ask everyone to support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you won't deny that you have two speeches that you're handing over to Mustafa? They won't deny it. And that's why Wesselova gives Mustafa Najem the word for the performance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! I would also like to address our colleagues from the Opposition Block and those who are listening to us about speculations under this law. First. I would ask everyone to stop any discussion that we have renounced some territory, cut off some territory and practiced isolationism. That's not true and that's not true. First. The money provided for in this bill is already in the budget. And you know, and we know (more than that, you've got a lot of businessmen), that money is being depreciated every day. This territory can't spend that money because it's blocked. And I understand the political risks that the Opposition Block has in this territory. There is therefore an agreement that we will provide for in this law, if the territories are released, for the return of that money to local budgets. It's a normal form. Moreover, this money can now be used for schools, kindergartens, the infrastructure of those territories, where people living in Donetsk and the occupied cities moved. They're the same people, they're the same taxpayers, they paid there. So let's stop this conversation. Let's vote on this law. And tomorrow this money will go to specific infrastructure projects. I would like to propose to the Opposition Block, which now applies to this law, let us not now think about who and where he sits, but vote for your constituents first. Moreover, the bill provides that if Donetsk and the cities now occupied are released (and he will be released sooner or later) the mechanism (it is provided for by this law) for the return of money will be developed, because it says that we are temporarily taking the money. As I understand it, our colleague, Mr. Heller, has already proposed this mechanism, we agree to this mechanism, let's write it down and vote together, it's also for you, and for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u51	Please, Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u52	Please give the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you with full responsibility that this bill must be supported in this room. And to the opponents of the Opposition Block, I'm going to say, today we're fighting not as many weapons in the territory as we're fighting for the brains of the watts that we've washed for quite a long time by our people in the territory, including the occupied ones, showing how Ukraine cares for its citizens in those areas that are controlled by it, we're first of all approaching that time of victory and helping to make the same reintegration. Dear colleagues, the hybrid war has a moment called hybrid victory. In this case, there is a hybrid war against us, and we need to look for new ways of reintegration, and for the struggles for the minds that are in, including, occupied territories. But to accumulate some money that we may ever spend in those areas when we win this war to the end, including in the territories, we cannot afford it today. I would stress that hybrid methods of victory in this case should work for people's minds. People who live in ruined places, and believe me, I go there quite often, they're waiting for victory today, first of all, from Ukraine. Because they still believe that it was Ukraine that bombed the same Slovenian. And I'm stressing, if Ukraine shows that we're restoring our territories and using these funds to fight for the brains of these people, I'm telling you again, they have to believe in Ukraine. And those who sit on that side of the barricade have to see that the bridges are being rebuilt, so I urge everyone to support the bill. And if there's a moment of victory, when I can hang the flag of Ukraine over Lugansk, we'll take care of it and we'll be able to take care of it, and rebuild areas that unfortunately we still don't control. I thank everyone and ask everyone to return to the hall because this is an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u54	Thank you very much. Paul Kishkar, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u55	Please give it to John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u56	You know, dear colleagues, I personally believe that today the Supreme Council will find itself in a position to vote on this bill. All those in the rostrum spoke, said it was Ukrainian land, Ukrainian territories that needed to be re-integrated, restored, used other epithets. But today is going to be this test that shows whether we're really ready to do what we're saying, whether we're just talking about how, unfortunately, this is always happening in our country today. I'm sorry that we came back to this issue just today. For more than two years, the aggression on Donbas began, not just in Crimea. You know, I'm actually here to welcome our colleagues who are criticizing the authorities that they didn't do anything. Self-criticalness, it always suits any civil servant. We are the authorities, we can solve all these questions. You know, and then essentially. When we talk about the ProZorro system, I would like to remind you that my colleagues who represent Donbas today in the Supreme Council are already before this bill is introduced. They have introduced a bill that has already become a law that we have voted to postpone the implementation of the ProZorro system from August 1st for the executive organs of Donbas, for example, to the Donetsk and Lugansk region by April 12th when the appropriate project was adopted. So any purchase will be done in a transparent way, there will be no abuse. You know, today, this week, we're going through a very difficult negotiation with the IMF, we're asking for an additional resource to Ukraine. But for some reason, we are detracting from the resource available in Ukraine. This is 3.5 billion dollars from local authorities who do not exercise their authority in connection with Russian aggression, which is 2 billion dollars from Crimea, who do not exercise their authority in connection with occupation, the annexation of Crimea. This is 5.5 billion that Ukraine can use today. Sadly, for two years much of this money was already there. Inflation was eaten, and we ate courses of differences that we could actually keep. You know, and I was listening to our colleagues from the Opposition Block, and I remembered 2012 when we were dividing Ukraine into the left-hand and the right-hand side. Fellows, you've already assigned Ukraine, all you want to do is share Donbas with the occupied and unoccupied. This is Ukraine! Vote for restoration, for integration, this is your responsibility, this is the land that gave you birth. And now we need to get rid of the invaders, get back, integrate, and have the Ukrainian flags majored there, and spread the Constitution there. You're sitting in the Ukrainian session hall of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council, in Kiev, the Ukrainian army has protected you, your life. Take responsibility for your Fatherland, the little Fatherland, and vote on this bill! Otherwise it's sabotage, it's political cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would very much like the attention of the session hall, because the discussion that is now taking place is completely unlike a professional discussion. I'd like to ask the previous speaker to draw attention to what's going on with the local budgets, and what's more, it's the cost that has been converted into the treasury of Ukrainian businesses and citizens from out-of-control areas. So this is about what you want to do right now is make the Law on Confiscation of Local Communities, the funds that are listed from uncontrolled territories. So you actually want people who, at the risk of boldly counting and filling up local Ukrainian budgets, want to take money from them. In addition, when the Ukrainian national deputies tell me today that it is temporary, that there is a mechanism for the reimbursement of these costs, there are no colleagues, there is no mechanism in this law. And I'm sure that the mechanism can only come up if we have a government in the lobby where the government is supposed to be sitting today, there would be representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who would clearly and clearly develop the mechanism, how can these funds be set up as a budget loan, so that as soon as these areas that are not controlled by Ukraine today, they will return to Ukraine, so that the money that the local budgets of citizens living in uncontrollable areas, which are more patriotic as citizens of Ukraine than many people here speak in the hall, because they have recalculated their funds into the Ukrainian local budget, so that they can find a compensation and compensation mechanism with the indexing of these funds in local budgets. Otherwise this law will not be called the confiscation of local budgets. This needs to be done in a transparent, balanced way, and that is what experts have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Mr. Balitsky of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u60	Eugeny Balicki, Melitopol, Melitopolski district, 80th district. Please pass the word to Nemchenko Vassili Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u61	Respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, respectable people of the East! I would like to begin by discussing the bill to return to the tour of November 2014, when, after the President's decree and the Cabinet of Ministers of Yatsenuk had denied social protection to 450,000 pensioners, when, owing to the absence of livelihoods, burned cities and villages, the people left their occupied places and moved to the centre of Ukraine, who were in the controlled part of Donetsk and Lugansk. To date, I would like to inform the people that it is not only a fact or act that is behind the introduction of civilian military administrations but that it is behind the cessation of self-government in controlled territories. And more to tell you, this law, the unconstitutional law, all the allocations and budgetary allocations for local governments have been transferred to the authorities of the military and civilian administration. That's the question! That's who's doing it. Instead of providing State subsidies, subsidies have taken away money from government bodies. And the last question that I would like to draw the attention of respected colleagues. We can vote on how everyone sees their problems. But note what is proposed by this law: this law invites people who live in those territories and who pay tax payments to our budget to close them. And say, "If we pay taxes, pay businesses, take risks, pay them, and take them away from us, tell us who will work afterwards." We ourselves point out that, in fact, we place on the principle of State separatism that it finds in the theory of law. as a financial divide of society, financial separatism, because it divides people in one area: some take property through the law and they transfer money to another group of people in a controlled situation. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. We still have the opportunity to make the final appearance of the Teras Cremen. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. Then we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to call the deputies into the voting room. The word is given to the Terrence of Taras Dmitrovich, the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support this bill, because it is truly in line with the principles set out in the logic of supporting the territories under the control of the Ukrainian authorities. At the same time, I would like to assure and repeat the thing from which we started the morning session today. In addition to important investments in infrastructure development for the consideration of local self-government and the financing of socially important objects, education should not be forgotten. The education grant should be increased to the Donetsk and Lugansk districts. I repeat that today there is a huge need to rebuild schools, to rebuild kindergartens, to buy school buses, to provide material and technical facilities for preschool, out-of-school education. The Enlighteners today are the first to meet the enemy. They're working on an intellectual front today. They prepare our children for external independent appreciation. They help our children to return to Ukraine, including in these days when they are preparing for the DPA. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to look carefully at this bill, but not to forget that educational subsidies are also one of the key volumes and directions to which our parliamentary attention should be drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, we're supposed to have Yuri Solovay next, but we're out of order. But at the same time, there is an important proposal, namely, the amendment made by Yuri Lewchenk, who. you may add the required number of votes to make the decision. And so, with your permission, I'll be there in one minute. I'll be there in three minutes. Okay. Yuri Soloway gives the word to Yuri Lewchenk, and this will indeed be the final act. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u65	Thank you. Well, really, the bill is important, you have to approach it very carefully, very carefully and very professionally. First of all, it's just a small, short preamble to my amendment, why I insist on it, and hopefully the authors will still accept the amendment. The point is, despite the statements in the session room, actually this money is de facto! There are no treasury accounts. So this money was already used at the end of last year, and that's why it's very important to look at how more than three billion dollars now are going to be re-searched, as they say, de facto (not de jure, but de facto) will be used in the budget. Unfortunately, as this project seems to be on the first reading, it poses a huge corruption risk that these huge flows of money will be invested in essentially populated areas that are directly on the front, directly on the front. There's going to be tens of millions formally invested in this, and then officials are going to report: well, you see, we've rebuilt the school, for example, 10 million have been invested, but the Separatists are now bombed, and there's nothing left to show us, there's no way to report. So if you leave it in this project, it creates a huge probability of such a huge corrupt pylos, where essentially money will be sucked out because of fictitious destruction and fictitious construction. So in order for this issue to be resolved, so that there are no questions: where are these huge, colossal costs that are now going to be channelled to Donbas in a socio-economic crisis, in a condition of total poverty. I propose to make an amendment to this bill, which will talk about that, first of all, these costs cannot be channelled to any object that is on the collision line. The collision line is clearly regulated by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is that, firstly, money should not be sent to objects in the settlements that are on the collision line, this time. And two of them would agree with the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before they can be implemented directly. These two mechanisms, I believe, will bring almost zero potential corruption schemes for using these colossal funds that will now be sent to Donbas. Donbas needs to be reinstated, we need to set an example, but we need to do everything we can to make sure that during this reconstruction, not our "love" (in paws) officials don't overwhelm their pockets with government funds again. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be supported, as far as I can understand, by the drafters of the bill supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u66	I would like to ask my fellow Members to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I would like to inform you that according to the Rules, there should be a closing word and a reporter and a co-rapporteur. Do you need both or just one? That's enough for one. Dear colleagues, a number of suggestions were made during the discussion. I understand there's a need for us to take as a whole, but only if you now make a very clear and clear statement, do you support these proposals that were sounded by Deputy Geller, Deputy Lewchenko. And actually, the wording that you're going to now hear from the Supreme Council stenogram, I'm going to put it to the vote. To conclude, I give the floor to the rapporteur, the author of the bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, Efimov Maksim Viktorovich. A brief meeting, it's no big deal. You can consult if you need to. And I'd like you to use the transcript to describe your position in the closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u67	Dear Andrey Vladimirovich, will we vote, do I understand correctly that we will vote now on the basis, and then we will vote in the second vote in general? We have now, we have proposals from Mr. Levchenk that we can agree with. These suggestions I ask Mr. Levchenk as an amendment to repeat again under the transcript. Or should I say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u68	No need, no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u69	There is, yes. So we agree, I agree with these amendments: the colliding, as well as the alignment with the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u70	And your proposal: first on the base, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u71	In general, yes, yes. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Geller's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u73	Geller's edit. Can I repeat Heller's amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u74	Geller, one minute to repeat your correction under the transcript. Please turn on the microphone. And we're taking up jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u75	In End Positions, write the following, that the money is given as a loan until these areas are controlled by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u76	Please, Efimov Maxim Viktorovich, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u77	One more time, I'm sorry, please. Eugenius, repeat, please. I'm just, uh...
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u78	So your colleagues have heard, consult with each other, and make decisions. Please turn on the microphone, Efimov Maxim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u79	The bill already states that this money is temporarily transferred before the end of the ATO. This is already prescribed. Now that Mr. Heller wants to prescribe a return, I just don't understand how real we are today. I mean, they're already prescribed in the bill as temporary. The mechanism of return proposed by Heller is impractical in terms of implementation. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, come on. No, the discussion is over, Mustafa. Let's put it on the ground now. On the basis of that, I'll support it, and then once again after that, we can have a discussion if there's a need. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Based on the base. Well, you don't have to take any amendments into account, society. I'm asking you to get ready. Mr. Yuri, if we consider it as a whole, it will be supported. But on the basis of that, there is no need. Okay. I'll fix it with Lechchenko. It's a deal. Dear colleagues! We're getting ready to vote. An important bill to support our brothers in Donetsk and Lugansk. We have refugees in Ukraine internally displaced more than refugees across the EU. And we, the Ukrainian state, need therefore to give advice and provide for the great problem and tragedy that the Moscow invader has brought us. To that end, we need to make decisions. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending paragraph 24, paragraph 24, of Chapter 6, to the end and transitional provisions of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine on the redistribution of the funds of the local budgets of the settlements in whose territory the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers (number 4623) on the basis of the amendment that was made under the transcript by Yuri Lewchenko. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:10:46]] For 236 And there's a proposal for us to be the draft Law 4623 with the amendment that Rybchin made. Lechenko for the transcription, with this amendment, so that we can vote on the bill, on the second reading, and on the whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4623 in the second reading and in general, we vote, colleagues. [[17:11:30.]] For 212 Self-help is an important position and principle, right? It's an important and principled self-help position, we don't collect votes. You're not convincing me, you're the head of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the final text is by the author of the bill or the chairman of the committee. And if you're ready to compromise now, I'll put it to the vote again. Dear colleagues, there is a principled position, but I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure for consideration of second reading and there is a general position like that. Then, dear fellows, I ask you to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for consideration for second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. Please vote, colleagues. 4623. Vote. [[17:13:01]] For 222 I'll put it again, I'll put it again, colleagues, concentrate again, come into the hall. Once again, I'm making a proposal, a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading 4623. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:13:37]] For 232 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. I'm sure in the next plenary week we'll adopt the bill in a second reading. Thank you for your active and productive work, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a day-to-day second reading. I want to tell you in general the position, there are social bills that don't generally cause discussion, very few amendments, two, three amendments. And if it were our will to stay in the hall and not go out so that we could do productive, efficient work on those bills, colleagues. So we have a block of the laws of the second reading in our agenda, and I'm going after each one. So the first is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of additional social guarantees to parents who are tutors (number 2975). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontovna. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the report, and I want to report the minimum number of amendments, the vote will be literally in a few minutes. Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, this is a very correct bill prepared by the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on September 15 we agreed to it and accepted it as a basis. The committee worked on, there was only one amendment concerning technical issues, and it was considered by the committee. I'll remind you what this is about. It's suggested that one of the parents who are working with employers be given the right to take a vacation to care for their child until he reaches the age of three. And also the clarification that only one of the foster parents should benefit from this type of vacation. I ask you very much for your support in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u82	Colleagues, we don't have any amendments that are rejected. It was the only amendment made by Drozdik, and this amendment is included. So we move on to making a decision. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the decision. Please, colleagues! Are you ready to make your decisions? [[B in m in s a l in]] You're welcome. Invite who's in the towers. Guys, call from the towers, invite me to the hall! And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to provide parents with additional social guarantees) (number 2975) on the second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:17:03]] For 254 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. The next, too, is very few amendments, 1639, which are the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (as regards the test of admission to work). The second reading, and I invite Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna to the report. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, this is also a bill that we adopted as a basis, almost a year ago, on April 21st. And I ask you very much now that he may be supported in the second reading and in general. The committee considered the 34 amendments that were made to our committee, including 15 of them. One included in part and 18 were rejected because they were filed in violation of the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, which go beyond the text adopted in the first reading of the bill. In particular, proposals were supported to complete a condition that did not impose a probationary term on admission to work. In the case of temporary or seasonal work, such a term does not count for single mothers when a child is under the age of 14 or a child with disabilities. a disabled person, for employees with whom a contract of employment has been concluded for 12 months, in the event of admission to work of an internally displaced person. Exclusion of the standard for not applying a probationary term for employees with family responsibilities who have children under the age of three, since this category of workers may include a large number of people who have children. Project name specified, add validity. So I ask you very much to support this bill in favour. in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmila. But we have rejected amendments, and we have to follow them according to the Rules. 3 Amendments rejected, Lensky. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. 6th, Matuzko. Don't insist. 8th - Walking. Don't insist. 12th, Davidenko. Don't insist. 13-a-European. Don't insist. 14th - Semenha. Don't insist. 15th Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please, Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u85	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I want to speak now about two amendments -- both 15th and 16th, because, in fact, these are amendments that relate to one substance, and I've given them as one whole. It's a committee that somehow broke them into two. The point is that, sadly, if these amendments are not taken into account, the employee will remain unprotected in cases of employment and transfer. In other words, a bill without these amendments allows a test term to be set when a worker is transferred to another location or to another branch of an enterprise. It's totally wrong, it takes away the job guarantees from the workers, and it creates completely unequal conditions for employers and employees. I also suggest that the amendment does not impose a test on others with whom the employer is obliged to make a contract of employment. It's not about 12 months, it's actually a labor contract. Please support these amendments, which will protect hired workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u86	Thank you. Ms. Ludmila, please comment on both one and the other -- both 15th and 16th. Ludmila Denisov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u87	Indeed, this amendment was rejected, since the dismissal of workers under article 40, paragraph 5, of the "Freedom in connection with the transfer to another enterprise" provides for the duty of admission to a new office. So this issue is already settled by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u88	Thank you. However, Mr. George insists on voting. And I'm putting to the vote first the amendment of the 15 People's Deputies of Lewchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[17:21:36]] For 133 The decision is not taken. And now, who supports the 16th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[17:21:56]] For 112 The decision is not made. 17th. Vanat or insist? No, it doesn't. 18th. Ephimov. Don't insist. 19th Matuzko. Don't insist. 20th, Ephimov, does not insist. 22nd, Anointed, does not insist, 22nd, Anointed, does not insist. A few changes were left for colleagues to enter the hall. Let's go into the hall, get ready to vote. 23rd, Matuzka, don't insist. 26th, Semenha, does not insist. 27th, and Semenha doesn't insist either. 28th. Jephthah, not insisting. 30th, Matuzka, don't insist. 32nd, final amendment, Davidenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Colleagues! Mr. Paul, Minister, ask the deputies to take up a combat position to carry out their duties. Let the deputies take their seats, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (as regards the test of admission to work) (number 1639) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. We vote. [[17:23:50]] For 213 213. Dear colleagues, I will return once, but I ask the MPs to carry out their parliamentary duties and vote. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, concentrate. I'll put it on return one day. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. I'm asking you to include the factions in the voting. Peter Prashenko's Block - 103, People's Front - 58. Opposition Block - 3, Self-Help - 17, Radical Party Laska - 0 (whatever one, Oleg Valeriyovich), Father's Day 13, Rebirth Party - 0, "Will of the People" - 5. Colleagues, an important social bill. It's wrong if we reject them. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and concentrate. Colleagues! People's Front! Please concentrate as much as possible, this is our colleague's bill. A great deal of work was done by the copyright team, led to a second reading. And now it's going to be wrong. Why don't you ask who else is in the towers in the hall? Dear colleagues, please back up and vote. I would like to return to the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (as regards the test of admission to work). Social Bill. Please vote for the return. 1639. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:26:03]] For 217 Colleagues, please explain to me whether there are warnings about this bill or if there are simply no people in the room. Please tell me who you're warning from. Colleagues! Does anyone have a warning? Who's gonna raise their hand and say there's a warning? Please. Please, Mr. Yuri. Is this a warning of such a level that the bill is not accepted? Colleagues, we're going into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, and I'll put them back. Colleagues, I'd like you to call to the hall of all those who are in the spheres of the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, heads of factions, may we? Mr. Igor, may we? Please come in, we're taking up seats. I'd like to ask our coworkers to back us up. A great journey, a year before the bill, was to be considered for the day’s work. Colleagues, all right, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I propose to go back to voting for the draft law amending the Ukrainian Labour Code, 1639. Anyone who supports the return to the hearing, please vote. Colleagues, please vote, please. [[17:28:46]] For 226 A decisive vote was taken. Colleagues, please prepare, and I bet we're back now, please in your seats and invite people into the hall. I put to the vote a draft law amending the Code of Laws of Ukraine on work on admission to work, 1639 on second reading and in general. Colleagues, we vote, please vote, please vote. 1639 in the second reading and in general, please vote, colleagues. Every voice has a weight, we vote. [[17:29:40]] For 229 The law is passed. Thank you to both the authors and the committee for their active work. Two decision-makers were identified in the vote. Dear colleagues, the following is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on alimony index (2426). I'd like to emphasize it to you, too. The correction is a minimum. We'll get to the decision-making point very quickly, so please don't break up. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions for Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please, Mrs. Ludmila. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. This is true of the alimony index that the mother, mother, or father will receive if the child remains with the mother or father. Our committee considered this issue when we first accepted it on April 8th of the year. Eighteen proposals were made by five national deputies. 12 is counted, 6 is not counted, so virtually everything is left as it was. As a result of the revision, the title of the bill has only been changed, and objects of alimony indexation, determined by the court in a solid amount of money, have been allocated. It is established that the alimony index determined by the court in a fixed amount of money is carried out at the expense of the alimony payer. It is estimated that the public contractor calculates the amount of the alimony index determined by the court rather than the indexation as foreseen in the project. So he's calculating, once again, I'm reminding you of this, complemented by a rule that if the alimony is drawn at a certain size and/or the sum of their indexation is not possible. The business administration, the institution, the organization, the natural person, the natural person that did the accounting, the debtor's debt of payment of alimony and/or the indexation of such alimony. I ask you very much for your support in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. Dear colleagues, I read the papers. May I have your attention, please, to prepare for the discussion. 5th Lensky turned down. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. 7th, I've been walking. Don't insist. 8th, Shinkovich. Don't insist. 13th, I was walking. Don't insist. 16th, Shinkovich. Don't insist. And the last, rejected, Lensky, 17th. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please call the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, take up jobs. A social bill that does not generate any political debate needs just our responsible decision. Mr. Sergey! Mr. Sergey! Mr. Ruslan! Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Prepare to make a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on alimony indexation (number 2426) on second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. 2426, in second reading and in general. [[17:34:44]] For 243 Decision taken. I welcome the authors and welcome to the committee's decision. The next day we have a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening social protection for people who care for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities (0933). Also an important social bill, there are very few amendments, and I'm asking you not to break up. And I invite the head of the committee to report on the issues of veterans, participants in hostilities, participants in the ATO and people with disabilities from Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u91	Please give the floor to Maxim Juryevich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! To consider a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine on strengthening social protection for persons who care for children with disabilities and with disabilities in Group I, the second reading of the rights of the legislative initiative received 6 rights from which only one amendment under Number 4 was technically rejected. This right proposes to supplement article 7 of the Social Services Act and extend its action to foreigners and stateless persons, including refugees. The amendment is rejected because it is already provided for in article 6 of the Social Services Act. The bill, taking into account the rights to second reading, is proposed. First. An allowance for the care of a child with disabilities of subgroup "A" to appoint one parent, or another legal representative, regardless of the fact that they are working, teaching, or serving. Let me remind you that subgroup "A" includes the most severe diseases. For the time being, such a care allowance is assigned only to an unemployed single mother or a single father, with an amount of 847 copies of 50. Some 30 million dollars a year is needed for these purposes. The other one. It is legislative to establish a standard for the inclusion in the insurance system of persons who take care of children with disabilities of the period when they receive their care allowance. It's a technical adjustment, no need for extra money. Decisions of the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATOs and People with Disabilities to adopt the bill as a law as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll go through all the amendments, there are literally two. So I ask the MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the decision. However, I will name those amendments that have been rejected. So, the 4th, the People's Deputy was going on. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. And it was the only amendment that was rejected. So the committee at its meeting was able to come to a compromise decision and we finished the discussion of the bill. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, please prepare for the decision. The Social Bill and, I think, there will be no political debate here too, just so that we're all in jobs. I am often called upon to comply with the Rules, but the Ukrainian Labour Act, which provides for the presence of all people at work, in their workplaces, not all adhere to it. There must be mutual responsibility. Ready? Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening the social protection of persons who care for children with disabilities and the disabled of Group I (number 0933) on second reading and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:38:58]] For 233 Decision taken. I also welcome the authors and welcome the committee for its fruitful work. In our section "Other Reading", honourable colleagues, there is another bill, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code (as regards the irreversibility of retaining a child by persons deprived of parental rights) (number 0950). The amendments are also a minimum. And I invite the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Sporis Ivan Dmitrovic, to report. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u94	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I think in this bill 0950 we really have to support the child to persons who are deprived of their parental rights. The draft of the bill, adopted as a basis, was proposed to oblige the court to decide on the withdrawal of alimony at the same time as the procedure for the removal of parental rights. If the mother, father, or other legal representatives of the child were to be denied alimony, the court would have to decide on the listing of alimony into the State Budget. But the bill was extensively worked out in preparation for the second reading. In particular, the bill, which we are asked to approve today, suggests that if the child’s legal representatives refuse alimony, the court decides to list alimony as a personal account of the child in the State Saving Bank office of Ukraine and obliges the mother, father or other legal representatives of the child to open the specified personal account within a month from the date of the taking of the legal force of the court’s decision. The bill received five amendments, and all five were accepted. Thus, it is suggested that three amendments be taken into account, and in part two, more than ever, all five amendments are included. I propose to support the decision of our committee and to adopt the bill as a whole in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u95	Thank you. Indeed, colleagues, all the amendments that have been made are taken into account by the committee. And that's why we don't even have a subject to discuss. A completely compromising law supported by all members of the committee of all factions. All that matters now is that there are voices. I ask my colleagues to return to the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote and take your seats. Colleagues, please call our fellow deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that we are moving to a chapter: decision-making. Colleagues, may we vote? So I am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Family Code of Ukraine (as regards the irreversibility of retaining a child by persons deprived of parental rights) (number 0950) in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please vote 0950 in second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:43:03]] For 234 The law is passed. Congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee for the quality of the work that brought our entire hall together. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next chapter. We have the next chapter, these are the drafts of the first reading. And actually this bill that I passed before the break, by Alona Shkrum, we have the opportunity to look at it now. I ask my fellow Members to now proceed to consider 2696, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the legal openness of databases and transparency of registration procedures. But we have until the end of our working day for 15 minutes, and I accept the author's offer to consider a reduced procedure. And I'm asking you to support all your colleagues. And I'm putting this motion to a vote -- 2696 for a reduced procedure. Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Colleagues! Attention! Please vote. Short-term procedure. Please vote, fellows! [[17:44:28]] For-170. Decision taken. And I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Skrum Aloni Ivanovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u96	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, this is a very important law, and I ask you not to break up, and my report will take literally two minutes. It is very rare in this room that we are considering and voting bills to strengthen our intellectual property rights. That's one of them. And it's designed by Vice-Deputy Victoria Ptashnik, non-factional, and members of the various totally factions to enforce the provisions on the protection of intellectual property rights of the Association Agreement of Ukraine. And this is where it corresponds to our, you know, old-fashioned Soviet legislation on registration procedures for trademarks, trademark protection and other issues. And that's why it's extremely important both in terms of participation, first of all, investment, in order to make these procedures European for us and in improving the business climate and implementing the rules of the Agreement on Associations between Ukraine and the EU. What does he predict? Well, for example, our current legislation with you does not provide for the publication or publication of applications for trademarks in general, so the person whose right has been violated will learn about this very often after the registration of such a brand and can only sue in court. Here, Mrs. Ptašnik and the MPs who have joined the bill bring it in line with European standards and say that the entire registration procedure should be transparent, the publication should be in a single, open electronic database. And the possibility of accusing such applications may be from the moment a person learns about it, including the possibility of accusing the decision of an expert body of having recourse to the Appeals Chamber of the State Intellectual Property Service. Also, we still cannot register an electronic brand. Colleagues, it's archaic at all, and this bill gives this opportunity. There is also the possibility of compensation for violations and so forth. The bill is supported by the European Business Association (I have the appropriate letters that I can show), the American Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. So I'm asking him very much to support and bring our intellectual property closer to European standards, as you and I have foreseen in our coalition agreement. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u97	Do we have to finish? Mrs. Schrum, you're done, aren't you? A word for the co-report, please, to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u98	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, in principle, the author expressed the position of the author's team because it is quite large there, about three dozen people's deputies. And I think it's clear and clear. The fact is that both the Association Agreement and the entire series of other international bilateral instruments have undertaken to settle intellectual property and trademark issues in general. It's a question that's always being asked at any level of Ukraine's victory with our European counterparties. In view of these circumstances, the committee considered the proposed bill, and Mrs. Ptašnik was present at the consideration of the bill. We had a difficult long discussion, but we unanimously decided to support the bill and recommend to the Supreme Council to vote on it as a basis so that we could work on it before the second reading procedure, taking into account the suggestions made by the committee members, and to remove a whole range of technical disagreements. Which exist in the bill itself. It's about using terminology, first of all. It's a matter of a technical nature. It's written once using an electronic signature, it's written somewhere, it's written that there's an electronic signature, and there's a lot of these nuances. As for me, they are such that they do not prevent us today from making a positive decision and supporting the bill as a basis. On the other hand, the committee, if the support of the session room, is obliged in accordance with the legal order, to correct all these shortcomings properly and prepare a high - quality proposal for second reading. Thank you. Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u99	Thank you, dear colleagues. Let's move on to the bill. And I'm asking you to sign up: two for, two against, to discuss the bill. There's an alternative offer. The chairman of the committee proposes to put the vote to the vote. Is there room mobilization ready to vote? Is it? Let's have a signal vote. If there is a desire to support this without discussion, please put the bill 2696, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the legal protection of database openness and transparency of registration procedures. Please support this bill by voting. [[17:49:41]] For 169 Dear colleagues, I see there is a need to discuss. Sign up for two, two for the other. And I'm asking you to block the hall door, no one goes to the polls for this important bill. Radical Party, block the hall door better than the rostrum to vote for the bill. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Mr. Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u100	Please give the floor to Deputy Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u101	Saloway, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u102	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, if you vote for this bill, you can only vote for it in the first reading. Even if we open the first, article 494, we'll see some contradictions. And this rule that this is required by the European Union is absolutely not being corrected by the Ukrainian realities of the registration of trade marks. And that's why we can vote, but only in the first reading. And Madam Chairman, I would still like to address you with the question of systematizing the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's see that we haven't considered today, starting with social protection, spending on Donbas, the issue of the Budget Code. Now we're looking at the question of trademarks. Today, there are serious bills in the field of economics, infrastructure, decentralization, banking, and so on. So at some point, I'm stressing that we're going to have a thematic consideration of the bill. Dedicate, if we have a question in the field of roads and infrastructure, let's devote half a day to solving this issue. If we have a question of decentralization, let's devote half the day to decentralization. Systematizing the work of the Ukrainian Parliament is also an important issue in order to properly organize work and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u103	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u104	We don't allow officials the right to register trademarks, to protect brands, or not to protect them, depending on how I feel about officials, I quote, "the notion of good, honour, dignity, public duty, conscience and justice." I think it's a huge risk, and I don't think it's possible to fit into the law, especially when we're talking about business and its desire to protect copyright. We are willing to vote in the first reading, but in order for this law to be adopted as a whole, it takes very serious work and very serious consultation with people who will be victims of this law if it is approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u105	Mr. Yegor, you don't mind, do you? Please. On the first reading, yes. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u106	Thank you. The law is, indeed, mostly correct and indeed contains certain norms of the European Union, but there is one norm that I have mentioned, which is not exactly within the European Union. And this is a position, I am now quoting, a position that is considered to be contrary to public order, to public moral principles, especially if it is aimed at violating ethical norms and rules of conduct in society based on traditional, spiritual and cultural values, ideas of good, honour, dignity, public duty, conscience, justice. That's what I just quoted from the law. In the law, you can't write things like that because, in fact, that person who's going to make any decision on this point is going to say, "You know, I don't like your brand, it doesn't fall under my understanding of honor and justice. I won't register it for you." So Freedom will vote in favour of this law in the first reading only if this part is excluded from the first reading. Please consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u107	Thank you. Prince Ruslan. Please turn on Ruslan Knyazevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Head. The thing is, if there are such serious warnings, I would ask you not to lose this bill, because it really needs to be talked out in factions. Then, if you please, on behalf of the committee, I would not have put the matter to the vote today, but I would have moved it to another day when there would be a successful vote because the signal vote showed only 169 votes in favour and, as I understand it, the situation is not changing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u109	There is a proposal for the committee head to postpone this consideration. Let's listen to the drafter. Alona Shkrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, indeed, this is an important bill, including, on our commitment to the Association Agreement, and so I would like, if possible, to postpone, indeed, the vote. And about what the speakers said. Well, first of all, we accept and support the vote only in the first reading. And secondly, some of the standards that you've read, including, Mr. Yegor Sobolev, they're now in the law in force, and that's why we're not changing them and how it was, and that's how it remains. Thank you. But please, really, don't lose the law and leave, postpone the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I have received a proposal from both the head of the committee, and from the author of the bill asking to postpone the consideration of the bill. Please, there is a request to postpone its consideration. Mr. Ruslan, that's the only way it can be -- a transfer of consideration. And I respect both the author and the head of the committee, and so at their request, even though I would try to vote, speaking between us. I know, Mr. Victor. So there is a request for a transfer. Let's, I'll take advantage of my right to conduct a rating vote on the subject just to feel the mobilisation level in the room. So I'm conducting a rating vote and I'm asking all the national MPs to take part in it. So, the rating vote, please take part in it. [[17:56:49]] For-182 And I'm taking the position of head of the committee and the author on transferring the bill. Dear colleagues, all the bills we had a chance to consider, we passed. Many important social bills were passed. Those we did not reach were set for the next few days. I now give the floor to Irina Heratchenko. Please make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, we would like to thank once again the initiators of the "Mommy on the Front and the Back" exhibition, where the IFO "Equal Opportunities" as an initiator, as well as the photo project "If Not War" and the project "UN Women" and the International Women's Fund. And we're very grateful to all those involved, because this is an extremely important initiative. Let us ask once again all, especially the male politicians, to become, just to see this beautiful exhibition, which, until Mother's Day, is organized by initiators in the towers of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m1.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm asking for maximum mobilization so we can have a productive day. Thank you for your fruitful work and for the activity of the national deputies. Colleagues, good-bye, tomorrow.
