ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have any of those letters. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:03:49]] There are 340 deputies registered in the hall. Listen to me: 340 registered. I'm surprised how many deputies there are. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear colleagues, the following is a very important bill, 4543 and 4543-1, which is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for social standards and the amount of subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies). Dear colleagues, the following is a bill on the withdrawal of pension taxes. And that's why I'm asking you with advice, maybe there's a sense of a reduced procedure to consider, colleagues, so that we can get there and then go to the doctor's office? Think, colleagues, before making decisions, because there is a proposal from the government to consider a reduced procedure. I am very much asking to take up jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please take your seats and prepare to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, are you ready to vote? Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[16:05:49]] For 101 There is no political will to consider the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'll do it again, Mr. Victor, I'll do it again. Yeah, that's the budget. I'll do it again. If there's support, we'll go for a shortcut, no, we'll follow the full procedure. Victor Pinzenik points out that this is a budget, and this is a need for a full procedure. Hence, who supports the proposal for consideration 4543. 4543-1 on short notice, please vote. Please vote. [[16:06:38]] For 121 The decision is not taken. So we're going after the full procession, and I'm going to ask the First Deputy Minister of Finance of Makarov Oksana for a report. Markarov, if you'll excuse me, please, Oxan Sergiyevna. Please, Oksana Sergiyevna. You need to turn on our camera now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national deputies and present! Allow me to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (for social standards and subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies) (registration No. 4543). The adoption of this bill, which we ask you to support today, is related to the need to raise social standards, such as salaries, benefits and pensions, and to increase subsidies for housing subsidies for housing and utility services to compensate citizens for changes in marginal retail prices. The bill proposes to increase the rate of increase in living minimum from December 1, 2016. If you remember, we have a state budget increase since December 1, 2016, but we propose to increase the rate of increase in the corresponding minimum wage from a thousand 600 dollars to. Against the thousand 550 dollars budgeted and correspondingly increased social standards, pensions and state aid. The bill envisages such increases and subsidies for benefits, and socio-standards for increasing the income of the general fund, which will be due to higher tariffs, is primarily from a $1.2 billion corporate income tax, which is an increase in VAT revenues from goods and services produced in Ukraine, and an increase of 2.1 billion, and an increase in income for the use of nadrama. We have also taken into account in this bill a reduction in revenue in relation to that bill that we tabled on the abolition of pension taxes, a government bill. So the bill is balanced. The Committee on Budget Affairs supported this bill at its meeting on May 11, 2016, and we ask you today to support the government and the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Did you complete the report? The report is open. The question is, yes. I'm sorry. Now we have three minutes -- a question to the reporter. And I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter, please. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u4	Please pass it on to Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u5	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we will certainly uphold this law. At the same time, we'd like to understand what the rise in social standards we're talking about. In fact, we realize that these are the minimum changes that will not, unfortunately, bring about a significant improvement in the difficult conditions in which people are today. So we think that's an increase in social standards, of course, it looks just funny compared to inflation and expected price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u6	Answer if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u7	Thank you for the question or the reply. Of course, we would like to have better performance indicators or budget redefinitions and be able to raise social standards more. But we think it's going to be an increase of 50 dollars, which in every particular wage, it's going to be about 300, in some cases 400 dollars, that's going to be a fairly significant raise in December. If we can get back to that question by doing it in the first half of the year, we will certainly be ready to do it. In this case, however, we believe that this compensation will help in any way possible in the plan of compensatory action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u8	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u9	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam First Deputy Minister of Finance, my question is as follows. According to the 2000 methodology, the real subsistence minimum income of citizens was calculated. At this point in time, from a real subsistence minimum, what people get is just 47.9 percent. An increase of 50 dollars will result in us being able to raise only up to 50 percent of the real cost of living. At the same time, I would like to point out that, especially under the government of Yulia Timoshenko, this size of social standards was 98-99 percent. Question of the following: When will we restore social justice and citizens get at least what is provided by the minimum subsistence minimum calculated by methodology?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. Well, the budget voted by the Supreme Council has already raised, so we're not just talking about 50 bucks, are we? An increase has already been made to compensate for inflation. In this case, we are now embarking on the initiative of an additional raise in view of the fact that we are raising the cost of tariffs. Accordingly, once again, if, through our joint efforts, the economy of Ukraine starts to grow, and we will see the reconstruction, and we will be able to see this budget overhaul, we will be happy to go back to that question. At this point, this is a balanced bill that we have been able to present to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u11	Thank you very much. The time for questions is exhausted. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, today we have come to a very important and very responsible decision. The issue of raising social standards is no longer the first day on the agenda, and as a result of the tremendous increase in prices, the tremendous inflation that continues to increase tariffs, we are obliged to make a responsible decision with you today. And we have two ways with you. The first is to propose and support the Government, raise social standards by 50 bracelets. But think about it, 50 bracelets, two dollars and December. What will this give our people? It won't do anything. Now it's time for the summer, people have to cook for the fall, there's going to be a little bit of help to heal their children, there's going to be a need to prepare the baby for the new school, and now we just have to take this decision very seriously and not by two dollars to raise social standards, but to adopt the necessary minimum, at least 500 bucks to raise pensions and wages. And the Opposition Unit has prepared such a draft decision, and we will vote in favour of it today. You're right to ask a lot of people, "Well, I don't have any money. We don't always have money." But I want to tell you, dear colleagues, the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Ministry of Finance reported on his fine work the day before, they received additional incomes in the budget of 16 billion grivens. It's official. According to our estimates, such inflationary revenues will be another 60 billion by the end of this year and only 80 billion dollars of income that are not included in the budget. We therefore propose that you, the distinguished people's deputies, share with our people and that the money that is in the Ukrainian budget be directed towards increasing pensions and raising wages. This is exactly what will allow people today to feel protected for a little while. Because when your salary is raised by 50 bracelets and you get hit and told about the rise in social standards, but we have to be honest with ourselves, it's totally unacceptable. At the same time, we are hearing with you, and this is the second day we are considering drafts to obtain the next tranche of the International Monetary Fund. But above all, the Opposition Block insists that the Government report on the tranche that has already been received. Where did the IMF give us in the past and this year? Because the real economy has not received this money, wages in the country are rising, prices are rising, the rate is rising. So where's the IMF money? And now that you are re-adopting every law of "abracadabra" in Parliament for another tranche of IMF, we insist that, first of all, the money that, if received, they also have to go to higher social standards. We hear today, and we know all of you very well about that colossal corruption. That's what they're talking about in the world, that's what they're talking about in Europe. And we must admit with you that today the only payment from the state budget that has not yet been stolen is the money that is retired to pay. And in order to protect people today, we must devote all the resources of the budget to the first very much to increasing pensions and to raising wages. The Opposition Unit in our draft budget has also made it very clear, so that today, by excluding inefficient budget costs, we can send money to raise our social standards today. I just want to give you one small example. For example, we have 645 million bracelets in the 2016 budget for optimizing the system of central executives and reducing the number of control bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, just think about it: 645 million bracelets will be used again in the wind, because the number of controlling authorities every day creates a new coalition with the Government. And that money will just be written off again. Therefore, we have clearly set out where to take money today, with what resources we can now, without delay in the long box, from 1 May to 500 bracelets to raise people's pensions and salaries. This is the first paragraph of our bill. The second paragraph of our bill, which we also insist on, is, of course, an investment in the economy. Because the most important thing in our country right now is to keep our jobs, protect our jobs today and pay people's wages, and create internal incentives. Therefore, the Opposition Block in our bill proposes that we triple the funding of large-scale investment projects so that we increase the budget of the State Regional Development Fund by 500 million dollars to support our local budgets. We also insist on increasing the State support of our agricultural producers; we insist that the reconstruction programme of those territories that are already under Ukraine's control in the east of our country be funded, but unfortunately we have not received a penny to rebuild the social, transport and utilities and private infrastructure of the people. Therefore, we believe that we are now in a position to make an absolutely correct and responsible decision in the proper distribution of the budget. Unfortunately, too, the issue of subsidization to local budgets has not been resolved in the Ukrainian budget in order to ensure that our vocational and technical schools and children's youth schools work. And that is a question that he does not tolerate. Therefore, I am sure that each of you present in this room is thinking about preserving social peace in the country in order to preserve social justice in the country. But words today and only desires will not be enough. And from today's vote, we will all honestly answer the question of whether we are ready to take responsibility and give people what they truly deserve, that they have actually earned just pensions and fair wages, and take the first step towards a real rise in social standards. Because, respected colleagues, raising social standards will also increase people's consumer capacity, allowing people to buy something, pay for an apartment, buy themselves a try at least a little bit to secure their family. And so our manufacturer can produce a little more of his own products, which will protect their jobs, and that will eliminate wages today. Therefore, we are now in a position to take the first step towards real reform and transformation in our country, namely, to raise pensions and raise wages, which is the most important and most responsible decision. This is the only way to protect money in the public budget today and not to let the last kegs that are still there go. The Opposition Unit therefore insists that we today begin a real increase in pensions and salaries. And we are fully responsible for the fact that the money for this increase is in the budget, that this resource is today provided and that it is the money that we have with you, and, above all, the coalition of this Parliament, that owes people. That is why there is a chance today to correct mistakes and to go on the path of social justice and social peace. Therefore, we appeal to you, your respected colleagues, to reject political ambitions, to reject emotions and to unite our efforts today to demonstrate to the whole country and to show to the world that the Ukrainian Parliament is adequate, that there are professional people in this Parliament who are willing to take responsibility and make fair and honest decisions. I therefore very much hope that our bill, the Opposition Block, 4543-1 will be supported and that people will feel real improvements in social life in May.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u13	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please record. Please, Sugonyako from Peter Prashenko's Block passes the word to Kaplin from Peter Prashenko's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u14	It's probably a prediction that the first two records came from the simple people's party, because it's this political force that's going to solve all the social problems of the population. But we don't have a question, we have more lines. In our view, any conversation and bills I have put forward without changing the methodology of accounting for the minimum of living is nothing but cheap, shameful and degrading to millions of Ukrainians by political speculation. It's not a promotion! This is some cosmetic repair of social standards that require today's substantial fundamental modernization: a person has to come to the hospital and get a proper level of services, and heal; a person has to come to the store and fill his basket so that both the family, and the children, and the neighbors, and the best man, and the best man - man must provide himself to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u15	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u16	(And then pass on.) All other conversations are speculation. This is what happens in Parliament: they adopt four or five shameful, degrading laws that "screw out of the pockets" of ordinary Ukrainians, everything that these simple Ukrainians acquire with bees, and then they adopt another law to "mouse their eyes" for what it's all about. So all of these decisions, these bills are nothing but four or three steps back and one step forward. However, we will vote for all social laws, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Please answer, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u18	I would certainly like to support my colleague that a fictitious rise in social standards is unacceptable. But at the same time, here we are with you, in our capacity to join forces with you today. I am grateful to those members of the Social Policy Committee who have supported our draft legislation and understand that there is money, there is money, there is money in the budget, that for 500 bracelets today we are able to raise social standards. And, friends, let's share, after all, and with people, it's enough to put everything in your pockets. Therefore, we insist that the resources currently available in the budget be given to people and that they increase pensions and social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u19	Jacenko Anton. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! Indeed, today this rise in social standards is fictitious, because it is nothing at all. And I want to ask you, what about the state's tax shipments, and how about the financing of trade and technology? When will we see from the government steps to improve the lives of our people? And that's why we really need to bring social standards into line with the basket that people are eating today and the price level. The Rebirth faction, of course, we're going to vote for it, but I want to hear the answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u21	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u22	I would like to tell my colleague that the bill, which prepared the Opposition Unit, does indeed provide for resources and compensation for local budgets for the maintenance of vocational and technical schools and provides resources for the restoration of concessional travel for those categories of citizens to whom this right has been granted under Ukrainian law. And we very much hope that your faction will also support our bill, because it contains a number of very important things, it's the financing of children's schools, it's the increase in social assistance for people with disabilities and poor families, it's the restoration of payment to single mothers and many more of the norms that have been taken away, and today we insist that they be restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u23	Colleagues, one last question. Capplin, but please, briefly. Mr. Sergei, I'm being reminded that time is up, that we're going to have speeches from the deputies, and I'm sure I'll give you a chance. Mr. Sergey, okay? Then there will be speeches from the deputies, and I will certainly give you my word. According to the Rules, my time is up and I am being noted. Give me 30 seconds, Caplin. 30 seconds, please. I'm telling you to speak up, and you're talking to me without the microphone, take the microphone and talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u24	Mr. Head, I urge you, however, to celebrate in Ukrainian history parliamentaryism as Head, who clearly implements the Ukrainian regulations. That's the first one. The other one. Today we're going to discuss these bills, a few of them. But I would like to invite my colleagues to focus on how to solve the fundamental issues in such a way that the wrong ones are found to provide indexation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u25	Please give me another 30 seconds. Turn on the Caplin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u26	To provide opportunities, not for this miserable, shameful, cheap indexation, but for people to have full opportunities to live, not to exist, to feel human, not beings. This is certainly the work involved in ensuring payment of taxes by oligarchs. Deoligarchization, de-offshoring, creating conditions for us to ensure the maximum level of budget filling. And in the end, the MPs got paid three or two times, and now you want people five percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next chapter is the factions. I'm asking anyone who wants to speak from the factions. Excuse me, yes, yes, yes! Communicator! Correspondent, member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich Please, a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u28	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues had indeed considered Government Bill No. 4543 at its meeting on May 11. I would like to remind you that this bill proposes to increase the revenue of the State Budget General Fund and the expenditure of 6.7 billion dollars, or 15 percent. They will, above all, go to increase subsidies from the state budget to local budgets to provide benefits and housing subsidies to the population, to pay for electricity, natural gas, heat-, water and water and water and apartment salaries. Also in view of an increase of 10 percent of the living minimum, it is proposed to increase the amount of the pension fund’s expenditure to a total of 145 billion 465.5 million dollars and to increase the social standards, it is proposed to take into account the cost of a one - time return payment to graduates of higher education institutions who have received education in the direction and specialities of the teaching and medical profession and have completed a contract of no less than 3 years to work in rural areas. Also to pay one-time financial assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, payment of state social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, increases in the amount of a scholarship to graduate students, clinical coordinators and doctorates of educational institutions and scientific institutions, and in addition, the Ministry of Defence and other strong structures to increase the amount of one-time cash assistance, injuries in the event of death, death and disability. At the same time, the bill before us, and we realize it, is far from perfect. And during the committee's discussion, we had a lively discussion of the effectiveness of the housing grant mechanism for the population, as well as the government's proposed approach to slightly increasing social security, which did not take into account the loss of citizens' monetary incomes as a result of inflationary processes and devaluation of the national currency. In addition, the explanatory note to the bill contains only information on the revenue and expenditure direction of the State budget, but no detailed calculation of the corresponding changes has been made, although article 91 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the submission of such calculations. At the same time, before consideration by the Supreme Council of Bill 4543, other bills on changes to the state budget, which also provide for changes in budgetary indicators, may be considered. In particular, Bill 4524 has already been adopted on Tuesday to increase expenditure on external independent evaluation. Therefore, in order to ensure consistency between the legal rules and the balance of the State budget, it is necessary to clarify the budgetary indicators in Bill 4543. In addition, the committee proposes in Appendix 2 to the bill to specify the name of the budget programme under code 3111800 for its proper implementation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the need to raise the level of social security for the population and believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. As a result of the consideration and consideration of the social orientation of the matter, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council Bill 4543 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law with the proposals of the committee listed in the Committee's letter. Accordingly, in the case of the adoption of Bill 4543 of the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Chief Legal Authority of the Authority in the drafting of the relevant law, the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the approval by the committee of decisions on the bill in question should be made. As for the alternative bill, I'd like to say the following. He was registered to only 17 numbers, 18 numbers were submitted for consideration by the Budget Committee. Since the drafters of the bill are national deputies, an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance is required in accordance with part three of article 52 of the Budget Code for the consideration of such a bill in the Supreme Council. The conclusion of Minfin is not available at this time. Moreover, there is no conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Therefore, the Committee on Budgetary Questions has not yet considered the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Please hold the recording. Please. From Self-Help, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help Association clearly supports the changes to Ukraine's state budget for raising social standards. But we are definitely against the increase in state budget subsidies for rent and housing subsidies for residential services of 5.3 billion dollars. Because we cannot continue to eat money today. We need to talk about energy efficiency in real life. And these 5.3 billion dollars are spent on investments, especially for the warm-up of houses. Because we have to admit that energy efficiency without money is a myth. There's nothing you can do without money. So as long as the word "halva" doesn't say, there's no sugar in your mouth. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have to admit that if we don't spend our money on investment, on reducing energy consumption, our society can't stand these prices. Therefore, the Self-Help Association proposes to adopt this bill as a basis, and in the second reading, to transfer the funds from the state programme number 351150, which deals with subsidies, to another state programme under code 2754060, which is called the Implementation of the State Energy Efficiency Target Programme for 2010-2016, to provide real investment in job creation and for real energy consumption reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u32	Nechayev Alexander of the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u33	Please give Papiev your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u34	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I have just heard from a representative of the budget committee that there was no bill in the committee's consideration of our colleague Natalia Royal because there were reasons. So let's remember. This is what happened today, and I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today there was Bill No. 2009a-d. You know, in this bill, one author was Mikola Tomenko. How do I know how the Supreme Council of Ukraine might consider a bill in the absence of an entity in general? And it was decided that the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have enough to consider the bill, so it decided to send it back to read again. Well, I haven't heard such facts in all history, for all the offices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that the Ukrainian National Deputy would be empowered by the Ukrainian National Deputy, and his bill was reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and made a decision. Well, that's such a separate question. Regarding the proposed bill. As soon as the First Deputy Minister of Finance told us that we're proposing from this, you know, from the bar back we're offering. I'd like to remind the First Deputy Minister what a minimum of living is. The subsistence minimum is a valuable amount of food, non-food and services. This set was approved in 2000 by Decree No. 656 (April 14). I'm not saying that there's not enough, that there's one pair of socks for two years and the other, we're talking about another. That you would at least give this value according to that set. I'm giving you some figures that, by the way, the Ministry of Social Policy, thank God we've adopted the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, where article 5 obliges the Ministry to publish the actual size of the minimum of living every month. So I want to tell you, for example, for working people, the actual size of the subsistence minimum in March was 2,000,891 bracelets, you're now offering twice the amount. And I want to remind you that the minimum wage for working persons is the minimum wage, just like the minimum wage for non-working persons is the minimum pension size, the actual wage in March of this year was $2,000.97. Now you're offering twice the amount. Today the government is not what it pays to do, but it is what it steals from.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u35	Thank you. From the People's Front, Michael Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u36	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u37	Thank you. Good afternoon, Gennady Kryvoshia, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, reverend Ukraine! I'd like to draw attention to what we've been talking about there all year ago, criticizing the government, criticizing the government, criticizing ourselves, and as a result, we can't, I feel we can do it in the hall, but there's still a lot of criticism about those funds, based on the extra revenue to the budget. That's all, these increases are coming at the very expense of what kind of policies the Prime Minister and the government of Yatsenuk were conducting. So today, we need to make exactly the decisions and actions that will actually be able to continue to demonstrate the promising work and progressive work of the new government itself in order to continue doing all the work. Including implementation grants, grants, including education, medicine, culture, youth, sports. Dear friends, let us note that we have a number of problems. And for today, I have the impression that they're just trying to, excuse me, somehow try to cut these costs. Somehow, I don't know how or where. Again, how can we talk about taking money away, for example, from defense? People are good, well, there's more to be added because the country is in a state of war. At the same time, we must ensure that a number of necessary social standards programmes are implemented, which are so important today, and which faction of the People's Front will stand and will clearly vote in favour of the bill. So the People's Front faction will vote in favour of the bill. And I'm asking everyone to pay close attention. And Madam Chairman, I ask you to invite everyone to the hall, because the bill is being considered in full procedure, and everyone is walking out of the room, so that we can vote on a rather important bill for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u38	Thank you for taking the right position. I remind all the people's deputies that we're almost done talking in a few minutes. And now, please, the representative of Mr. Shapov's "Will of the People" Group. And the deputies, please come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Shapowalov, the "Will of the People" Group. There is no desire to discuss. Please, Julia Timoshenko gives the word Sobolje Sergio. Please. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear friends, I think this bill is just an example of when a healthy, competitive way of defining bills that really change the situation is the best. But unfortunately, the practice of previous parliamentary leadership led by Groissman was as follows: those bills that have been registered by our faction of Fatherskin have somehow not been placed in the agenda, and even now, if you pay attention, a bill that completely clearly regulates the same positions that was registered two months earlier is treated separately as the following. In fact, this bill. I think there are a few key things that we need to define today. Is it the right practice when a sharp rise in prices, in tariffs, takes place without adequate compensation for the population? We're actually in a situation where the previous government of Yatsenuk has fallen behind with indexation, with the possibility of actually paying on tariffs as a minimum per year. And now this bill is trying to catch up with what's been missed for the past year and a half. What should we do about it? We need to take into account the level of inflation at which the corresponding incomes of citizens have not been indexed, without which the corresponding incomes of local communities have been stopped, virtually all programmes, including energy saving programs. Now we're being asked to raise the citizens' income by 50 dollars by the end of this year, increasing accordingly the minimum level of living. In our view, this is total abuse, the loss of about 70 percent of the citizens' real income in two years, I don't even take what happened to the dollar bill, but just nominal things. And we're asked to replace it with 50 bracelets at the end of the year in December. That's why we'd like to draw your attention to the very clear financial justification that we've given in the next bill, which has the same scope of application. And that's why our proposal is next. We are prepared to consider the proposals of this bill if the proposals of the next bill are taken into account. What's more, our bill suggests where to get an appropriate compensation in billions of dollars. And above all, this can be done by means of the de-offshoring laws that are actually opening up the possibility of financing such programs this year. That's why the Fatherland faction is going to be defined that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Please, Rosenblatt MP. It's Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! Today we are really looking at a very important bill to raise our social standards, raise our costs, our consumer basket. But I'd like to point out. (Hello.) But today, to consider the question of what. (Thank you.) Today, it is impossible to consider raising social standards without taking into account the economic problems of the state. And I'd just like to point out this. In fact, today I support the self-help faction's position that today it's not just about subsidies, but, above all, about heat-enhancement, about energy efficiency. And I want to remind you that today we have a very important issue in defense of our industry, which has been practically half a year now, with no money to produce new weapons, technology and all. So I would like to point out that really, today we need to support those bills that the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing. People today have a great desire to have large social benefits, social support from the State. But we still have to remind ourselves that today the country is still coming out of the economic crisis, three months in a row, we're seeing economic growth, GDP, but I would like to keep this trend going. Today, the money we're going to get from the IMF, and we all have expectations, they shouldn't go to the minimum of living, and they should go to a higher rate, they should go to the restoration of our economy, to the restoration of our population's productivity. So I just want to assure everyone: what the government is doing today -- it starts with the first steps. I'm asking you to support all of his efforts today, I believe that today we will not only be able to raise funds in December, but also, for six months, for the second half of the year, we will have an additional coming, which will also be taken into account by increasing pensions and all the standards. But the last thing I'd like to remind you is that the last point is that the power structures to increase the payout for the dead of our heroes are only 4.6 million dollars. I think this money is not really a reflection of what's happening in the east today, and every day we have very bad news from the east of our country that our fighters are dying. And 4.6 million is not the amount that is needed today to support those who lose their heroes. I would like to stress once again that the Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill and invite everyone to participate and support our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u42	Thank you. Please, Igor Popov of the Radical Party gives the word Oleg Lašk. Microphone, please turn it on. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I think each of you has pointed out that a lack of attention to the important issue that is being discussed right now -- the question of raising social standards, you see, most of the MPs don't care about that question. You know why? Because most MPs understand that you're being fooled and lied to when they talk about raising social standards. Because there's really no rise in social standards. Because when the government amends the Budget Act, which offers 30 dollars per month of increase, for example, child care payments up to 6 years, 30 dollars per month, one euro per month after caring for a child up to 6 years of age. May the person who offers this increase live on 30 bracelets a month. Why is there really no rise in social standards? Because there's a huge level of corruption in the country because the authorities don't pay taxes. Because there is no way to raise these social standards when the economic policy of today's government and today's government is a policy of preserving poverty, it's a policy of turning Ukraine into a raw asset to the developed economies of the world. That's why the Radical Party is offering an alternative to this policy, and we've developed and presented to society an anti-crisis plan of urgent economic action that offers a definite opposite to what the government is doing. The government is robbing the country, we're offering to return the money back to Ukraine, especially offshore, and pay taxes here. The government proposes to raise the retirement age for citizens, the Radical Party says that jobs should be created. The government is offering $30 an increase in minimum wage and pension, and the Radical Party is offering up to 3,000 dollars of minimum wage and pension. A government policy aimed at destroying its own economy and industry, the Radical Party is proposing laws that will allow millions of new jobs to be created that will provide jobs for every Ukrainian citizen. The government is robbing people, the Radical Party is protecting people. Because the only way to raise the country, to rebuild the economy, to develop small and medium-sized businesses, not oligarchs, is to create jobs, it's a radical increase in citizens' income, it's a de-offshoring of the economy, it's an index of wages and pensions, because when the government adds three cents when the inflation is hundreds of percent, it's just abuse. That is why we demand in Parliament an anti-corruption investigation against senior officials, a radical change in economic policy in order to raise our incomes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u44	Thank you. I'm asking all the deputies to sign up for a discussion right now. Yes, please, let's move on to the discussion. National MP Bereza Borislav, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Borislav Bereza, out of fact, 213rd District. I want to go to my colleague and ask, does anyone know how many deputies are actually in the session room right now? Mrs. Andrey, Mrs. Irina, do you see how many people are now? I'm sure if we vote for these laws now, there will be no votes again. We'll vote again to go back to the debate, then vote in favour of coming back and introducing these bills to the committee. Then why are we here? People are looking at us and they don't understand what's happening now? We came in the embroidery, took a picture and went home? Are we working for the state and society? I want to say that this is a very important question. Social assistance from us should come not six months later, but today, even though it should have been six months ago. So I'm asking you to call everyone who's sitting in the dining room right now, those who're walking in the towers, or maybe they didn't come at all. For if we fail these questions today, the Ukrainian people will not forgive us! I'd like to thank you very much if you could make a signal vote right now. I know it's not in the Rules, but, Mr. Speaker, you can see that there are no 226 deputies in the Hall at all. 340 enrollment, and there are no people again! Who are we kidding? Society isn't stupid, people aren't stupid, people won't forgive us. Please, they should vote today. Do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Borislav. I know the weight of the law that we are considering as the next law. And I suggested that we follow the reduced procedure. But I'll tell you one thing, it's me down here in the rostrum every time I call the deputies. It's not my job to humiliate, it's all of us in the band to invite MPs into the hall. This, he stressed on many occasions, is complete irresponsibility. But today I reject all laws that do not have votes. I will reject them, let everyone be accountable to their community. Let everyone be responsible, let the people see who votes and let the burned-out earth be under them in their districts if they are not in the workplace. I hope the deputies will be in the hall. I hope the factions will mobilize deputies to participate in the session. Thank you. Please, Sparkle. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u47	Spark, Opposition Block. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As one of the co-authors of Bill 4543-1, I have to say the following. First, according to the Rules, the bill of our faction under the leadership of Yuri Anatoliovich Boyka was registered at the beginning of this session. And he was number 3793, and he was the main one on this issue, and the government's bill was supposed to be an alternative, that's the procedure. With regard to the text of the bill, Mrs. Kraljevska has made this project very detailed and very meaningful, and we believe that it is our project that should be voted on. Because it enables us to survive at least a little. Because when you literally raised utility tariffs twice two weeks ago, raising people's wages by 50 dollars is, at least, as they say, illogical and people will find it difficult to understand. Dear colleagues, I propose that we vote on our bill as quickly as possible and move on to the next bill, which eliminates the taxation of pensions for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u48	Thank you. Soloy Yuri, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u49	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, it is clearly necessary to vote in favour of this bill. We need to vote exclusively in government, because this is the same text that is the most balanced and that really solves the problem that has taken place in our country today. Obviously, sooner or later it was necessary to move away from populism and raise prices for gas, but by the way, clearly Ukrainian society had to get compensators in order to deal with this problem. And today, if we look at it, it's not really about raising the minimum of living, which Mr. Lazko rightly said, that it essentially doesn't decide how this is about increasing the amount of subsidies by 5.3 billion, more precisely, the amount that the Ukrainian budget spends on subsidies. I want to draw attention to this question, because the amount spent by the Ukrainian people in the form of a subsidy is 40 billion dollars. Is it too small or too much? Well, for example, the cost of medicine in our country is 44 billion dollars. So today the cost of subsidies is practically equal to the cost of medicine. And I want to draw attention to the fact that the existing system of subsidies does not completely solve the energy saving problem that needs to be solved first in our country today. People and consumers don't see it. So next to this bill, the next step should be the total reform of the subsidy system. We have to go to a personalized account and a personalized subsidy payment system so that people get these funds on their personal cards to get people to get an incentive to save, and to provide energy, and to take energy saving measures. So the next step, I think -- and this is the first question that needs to be for the government -- is to be a comprehensive reform of the grant system aimed at personalizing payments to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the very important issue that we are considering today. And imagine each of you 50 bracelets in front of you. And imagine what you're offering these 50 bracelets to our old people, our disabled people, our veterans, our working people just to raise social standards. And you think that's enough? This is such an auction of unprecedented generosity from you! Look, let's be honest. Everyone here knows that more resources are now being made available to the budget through inflation, through price increases, through today's tariff hikes. Each of you well knows that the latest money is now being collected from people by baseless taxes and unwarranted prices. And we have a chance with you today. There's a chance for a little bit of a drop, but take a step towards the people. And the fact that people haven't seen social standards for almost two years, but they've seen high prices, and every month, they're like snow on their heads, and they're getting higher utility bills, you know. Today in our country, old people stop being treated, and they could live for a year, for two or five more if they could get medical attention if they could buy a cure. Today, young people stop learning because they simply cannot pay for their education and their parents are unable to pay for their education. Today, mass people are leaving the country. Immigration in the country today is at the highest levels. Well, let's just think about it a little bit and make a decision not for a little bit, not to be proud to say that we've raised the socialists for 50 bracelets in December, but not to hide our eyes. Let's face it, there's money in the budget today. And the only chance this money will ever be robbed is not to steal another time, but to keep that money today is to give it to people as pensions and wages. But you will agree, but today you lack the capacity to restore the economy, but at least you have the ability to push the button and raise social standards. And we call upon you now to take a responsible decision and raise, at least, 500 gross pensions and salaries. Please take a courageous step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u52	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u53	Please convey to the One of Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u54	Dear national deputies, distinguished representatives of the government. You know, it's very difficult to support this legislative initiative. Because there are huge issues in the order of government action. Because one of you are saying that there's more coming to the budget, there's an excess of money, on the other hand, when we're passing bills that, for example, finance the forest sector in the south-eastern regions, where there's now destructive sections and there's no provision for any amount to fund the forest subsidies that preserve the south-eastern forests, the Minfins say, "There's no money, there's no balanced budget." So I ask you very much if we have an increase in revenue from the state budget, along with the State Agency, work together on a bill of budget changes that will align the situation that will allow us to retain our personnel by the end of the year. Another question is, it's fiscal policy. Why are we fixing the budget from the wheels? Why were the main policies of state policy not presented in April 2017? Is it going to be a budget project in September, or is that how you do it with point changes to prepare us for the budget under the tree? Honorable government, be responsible. A month has passed, and I can't understand for myself whether you're a populist government, whether you're a government that adequately perceives reality and carries out reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenka. Dear colleagues, I am now, I want to take a message. Colleagues, there's a chapter coming up from the MPs, and I'm going to give it to those who signed up before. Before that, there were acts of factions. And each faction had the opportunity to speak. And there won't be any change in the sequence, there won't be. Please, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u56	Igor Lucenko, Fatherland Party. Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u57	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, this bill needs to be voted on. You know, 'cause 50 bucks is better than zero bucks. So yes, we have to vote for him. But we still have to talk about it and tell people the truth, and why there's 50 dollars in this bill, not 650 dollars or 1,050 dollars, for example. And second of all, you have to tell people that it's not tomorrow's 50 bucks, it's December 1st. Yeah, it's so easy for information. Well, yeah, it's good that at least 50 bucks. Although it's actually, you know, laughter through tears. But why is that 50 dollars and not 650 dollars? And because Minfin says we don't have any money, we still have, for example, a deal with the Republic of Cyprus to avoid double taxation, which brings between $300 million and $500 million out of Ukraine every month without any tax. And by the way, Mrs. Natala Jaresko officially admitted this in August of last year. Yes, also, for a moment, the former Minister of Finance. We don't have anything in the Supreme Council to do about the fight against transport pricing mechanisms, which are once again hundreds of millions coming out of Ukraine every month. Moreover, this Supreme Council last July to vote in favour of the facilitation of transport pricing mechanisms, through which the largest businesses and oil companies in Ukraine withdraw money from Ukraine without paying a single penny of income tax on non-profit enterprises that show zero profits in Ukraine and are actually profitable. In the Supreme Council, nothing is done about the breakdown of private monopolies and oligopolies, cartels that control the entire economy of the country and artificially control the labour market, pay the same tax due to the control of politics and so on. It's because all of these bills that I just said are just a few examples, they've been in the Supreme Council for over a year and a half, but they're not even being discussed, not that they're not being put to the vote, they're not even being discussed so that people, the Ukrainian people, can hear, but who is, who is, who is, who is, who is, who is, who is, who is, who is, in fact, in the Supreme Council. And the fundamental problem is that the Supreme Council today does not represent the Ukrainian people, does not represent the entire Ukrainian society. 90 percent of the deputies in the Supreme Council represent one percent of the Ukrainian people. And that's the problem. Because they work at this 1 percent, they preserve control of the economy and politics, they still work to stuff their pockets and their owners' pockets, and people throw 50 bracelets once every six months, and it's actually, you know, it's just so shameful and abusive. (Please finish the dates, please, 10 seconds.) It's so bullying when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u58	Mr. Yuri, he firmly denies the next speaker because he just won't be able to speak. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u59	It's so embarrassing when inflation is now accelerating again to 15 percent, it's at least forecast, and here it's offering minimum wage, minimum wage, minimum wage to raise by 3 percent. Consider, then, this arithmetic. So until the Supreme Council changes, I'm talking to the voters, I'm talking to the Ukrainians, nothing will change in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this will be the last performance after which we will move on to making decisions. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in a few minutes there will be a decision. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. Sugonyako Alexander. He's giving the word to Caplin. Please, Caplin. Microphone. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u61	You know, we've heard a national MP pass the word to another national MP. What I really want to say is, please pass the word to a simple Ukrainian worker who lives on 1,000 dollars. What I'm trying to say is, I want to give the word to a simple Ukrainian milkmaid, a peasant, and I want to give the word to a doctor, and I want to give the word to a teacher who can barely survive. And to be honest, they've already lost completely any even minimal hope that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or ever in their lives, they'll live better. To be told by this simple man? He would tell you things that not even 90 percent of the people's deputies who have been sitting for years and individual for decades in this room, which is 15 million households in Ukraine, and we want to give 10-11 million dollars to 40 billion dollars. Why torture an ordinary Ukrainian? Why bring him into these subsidy routes? Why not discount the cost of services for this amount and take a few willing steps to delligarchize? Why are we today after the war, or during the period of the war, after two revolutions, not to gain courage and nationalize the oil and gas fields that are in the Sumskia, Poltava region? Why don't we get the Ukrainian people back, the ordinary Ukrainian citizens, the oil refineries? Why not create a national company that will have the exclusive right to acquire what the Lord God has given from the Ukrainian land? Why aren't we privatizing gas distribution networks? Why can't we just take these steps, and we can't cancel the rent and the shameful, criminal VAT that relies on the pocket of a simple Ukrainian, on his hump, on his neck, not reduce to 2-1.5 thousand, and for that there are adequate gas price calculations? Why won't we be able to breathe and live to an ordinary Ukrainian, to work for Ukrainian businesses, to be competitive inside and outside our country? Because the factions that block or don't block the rostrum shake their legs and hands when they hear the word "oligarh," because they all come to the Ukrainian Parliament, they sit here and they get a salary from the pocket of the Ukrainian oligarch every month: not those miserable plus 50 bracelets that we're trying to give to the Ukrainian, but 50, 100,000 dollars. This Parliament should not be overturned, but run! Bringing in new democratic forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! The time for the national MPs is up. Have all the national deputies entered the hall, colleagues? Is everyone who thinks it necessary to raise social standards for our citizens in the hall? I ask you to enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote, colleagues. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. Dear colleagues, this is raising social standards and I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (4543) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:17:23]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have a committee decision to put on the ground and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. This is a committee proposal. Objection in the hall. Colleagues, let's consult. I'm proposing to the committee, I'm proposing to the committee as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals 4543. Anyone who supports it, please vote. If there are no votes, it will not pass, society. If you don't mind, it won't work. Colleagues, we vote who supports the committee's proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports the committee's proposal, please vote. If it doesn't work. [[17:18:19]] For 248 Decision taken. This is a committee proposal, I bet the committee should have had a discussion. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the lawyers, by the law passed, by the authors, and by the government, I welcome the fruitful and professional discussion. My colleagues, the lawyers, made an important point. I'm asking for your attention! We have two people's deputies standing. We went to the executive service, but we didn't make the decision, as we always did, to withdraw their powers, and accordingly the CLTC cannot decide on the election in those districts. According to the Rules, I can ask this question at any stage, it's very short, but without them, we're stopping elections in two districts. I'm asking for company and the entire hall to support me. Short questions, they don't need to be included in the agenda, I put them at any stage. I ask very briefly that we look at them. It's our good tradition, when a person goes to the executive service, we don't pull it like we used to, and we put it to the vote. Colleagues, therefore, the first decree is the draft Decree 4672 on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Garbuza. I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Vote please, colleagues, please. Vote. [[17:19:57]] For 213 I invite you to report to Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich. But briefly, briefly, Paul, please, for information!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting reviewed the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the parliamentary faction "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Harbuza Yuri Grigorovovich on the composition of his parliamentary powers under the terms of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, article 4 of the Act "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" in connection with the appointment of his head to the Lugansk District Authority. The Committee decided to submit to the Parliamentary Committee members a draft Decree (registration number 4672) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine Garbuza and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, Mr. Yegor, I will certainly give you my word. I'm the only one who can explain the logic. The next question is pension taxation, and if we go into those two bills of discussion, it'll take us 25 minutes and we can't take away the pension tax today. I won't be able to disrespect the rights of any national MP. But if they have that will. Is there such a will, Yegor? It can't be one, it could be two plus two. There are no special powers. Can we vote, colleagues? Vote. Vote, eh, Yegor? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Garbuz (number 4672) as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:22:09]] For 228 Decision taken. It's been decided. Colleagues, next. 4673 is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Gordjeev. I propose consideration of this Order by summary procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[17:22:40]] For 235 Paul Pinzenik, I would like a word for the report, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, the Committee at its meeting on 16 May, reviewed the statement made by the National Deputy, a member of the MP's "Block of Petra Prashenko", Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich, on the establishment of his parliamentary powers under the terms of article 81, part two, of the Constitution, article 4 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. By decree of the President of Ukraine on 28 April 2016, Gordjeyev was appointed head of the Herson district government. The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council a draft Decision (registration number 4673) on the suspension of the term of office of Deputy Gordjeev and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? I put to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of deputy of Ukraine Gordjeev (No. 4673) as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on who supports this decision. Vote. [[17:23:58]] For 248 Orders adopted in general. We wish our colleagues productive, active work. And so we've given the CIA the opportunity to appoint elections in these districts. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you now. We have the following bill: 4316. I have a statement from the factions. But they agreed, not on the break, but on the application. That's good. That's why I'm asking for three minutes now. And, colleagues, don't break up, colleagues. Please, on a statement from two factions, "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party, the word is given to Oleg Láško. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the very unpleasant news for our country. Today's investigation of the most authoritative German edition of Deutsche Welle, called the Offshore Dustenk Environment Schemes in Germany. German journalists have unearthed 10 offshore companies in Germany, producing tens of millions of dollars from Ukraine. President Dustenk's business. I want to stress that this is extremely unpleasant for Ukraine because when the Germans, when the Americans, when the British, when the entire world press writes about the President of Ukraine in a negative context, it humiliates each of us, it humiliates our own country. Because the President of Ukraine and his surroundings represent the state. Yesterday, I recall that journalists Dmitry Gnap and Anna Babinec published research materials when the President in March of this year produced 4 million euros to buy another offshore company instead of investing this money in creating jobs for Ukrainians instead of creating a company in Ukraine instead of offshore. I turn to the consciences of the national MPs. How much longer do we have to block the rostrum? What else do we have to do? How many international investigations must there be in order for the Ukrainian Parliament to finally dare to conduct and create a commission of its own investigation and conduct its own investigation into the abuses of the corruption of Ukraine's offshore authorities, its surroundings, the Head of the National Bank of Honduras, the Minister of Finance of Daniluk and the President's environment. How much longer does the world have to write, how much longer do you have to tap this rock to finally, fellow national MPs, realize your responsibility to withdraw money from Ukraine, not to pay taxes to Ukraine, not to take away Ukrainian jobs, it's a crime to enter. You just voted a bill that adds 30 bucks to a 6-year-old child, parents of a 6-year-old child per month, 30 bucks. We have billions of dollars coming out of Ukraine, you allow it. You don't vote to stop corruption, you don't vote for the authorities to stop robbing Ukrainians, you give opportunities, your inactivity, you're complicit in corruption, because you're helping to rob the country by doing your job, you're helping steal billions, you're throwing 30 dollars a month from the bar table. I demand that you act, investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I have a great request and a request for understanding of my request. We now have a 4542, where Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will have the first report to report on the law that is now standing. I think we can just give her more time and if there's a general agreement that we're going to go to pension tax right now, because if we don't go to him now, if we don't go to him, we're just going to lose the chance to accept him today. Dear Julia Volodymyrna and my colleagues from Fatherland, do you mind if we move on to pension taxes, and your report will be the first, and your proposal will be the first, Julia Volodymyrna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, yes, I only have one request for the committee to consider. I'll set it up, I'll set it up, but I'll ask you to have the committee. Because the lawyers just told me there's no committee, and we have no right to bet. One minute, please, Julia Volodymyrna, I ask that the committee be under this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u69	Dear friends, now we have an alternative to what? Or we're looking at the Parenthood Act 4316, which is about raising social standards, and then today we're not going to be able to look at all the bills on the abolition of pension taxes. We agree to postpone Law 4316 for the next week, on Tuesday's first question. If you promise us, we're ready to go along with this right now and start reviewing all of the draft laws on the abolition of the pension tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u70	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I only have one request. What does the apparatus tell me? That there's no committee. Any decision of the committee, even a negative decision of the committee, if it were. I'm giving the commission to the committee before the next sitting any decision, any decision to be made under that law. And, dear colleagues, I am going to consider draft Laws 4542, 4542-1, 4542-2, 4542-3, 4542-4, 4542-5 and 4542-6 – draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation. Dear colleagues, we do not have much time, and I offer to consider it in a simplified manner, although all reporters will be given the floor. All commentators will be given the floor. And to all those desiring a word will be given for the performance. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Vote. [[17:31:00]] For-187 Decision taken. And I'm the first reporter to apply for registration on this subject was Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and I give her the first word, and then Makyeeva, then Dennisova. Please prepare for the performance, all reporters. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, at last, the struggle of all the national deputies who opposed the introduction of the pension tax can end today with a victory. You know, right after the new government came in after the Dignity Revolution, an unprecedented thing was done, in spite of the world's traditions, contrary to common sense, the holes in the budget, including the work of offshore, shadow economy, other elements of today's troubles, corruption, the holes in the budget, were trying to close the world's unique pension tax. You know our team, the Fatherland faction, never voted for that decision. This decision was made twice when the 16th-year budget was adopted and the 15th-year government budget was adopted. It seems to me that everyone who voted for it has a direct responsibility. From day one, we stood up for the abolition of the pension tax as unnatural, unacceptable, and immoral. And today there is a great opportunity in our parliament to end this humiliation of pensioners and abolish the pension tax. I call on all the MPs, despite the fact that we have dozens of bills here, to consolidate our vote around one bill, and all the others to take for one. There is a government bill today, and we welcome it. And so I propose to all the drafters that they withdraw their bills in favor of the government, because we've all pushed the government together to cancel these pensions. And today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u72	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u73	And today let's take this first step. But there's a second step: abolishing the pension tax for working pensioners. And we demand that next Tuesday we start with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u74	Thank you. The report invites Makeyev’s Deputy Finance Minister, Helena Leonidivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u75	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for Tax Exemption (registration number 4542). The adoption of this bill is aimed at ensuring the protection of the socio-economic rights of pensioners, including pensioners, disabled persons, those who have lost the provider, as well as categories of persons who receive special pensions. The bill proposes to abolish the tax code provided for in Ukraine for the taxation of pensions if their monthly size exceeds three minimum wages in part of such excesses, as well as pensions from foreign sources that are subject to international contracts in Ukraine or are not taxed in the country for their payment. The adoption of the bill will allow the full payment of pensions and various social benefits to be paid to all categories of Ukrainian citizens under the legislation and remove the social tension among them. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u76	Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Denisova Ludmila Leontievna. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! Indeed, since January 1, 2015, 15 percent of pensions, which exceed three minimum wages, have been subject to tax. For the past two years, the government of Arsenius Yatzenyuk has spent every penny of money on the defense of the state. And in this difficult period of our history, the government, led by the leader of the People's Front, together with Parliament, was able to bring about the necessary reforms and stabilize the economic and financial sector of the state. As soon as there was an opportunity to improve the guarantees for citizens, the People's Front passed a bill to eliminate the taxation of Ukrainian citizens' pensions on May 1st of this year. Such a bill was prepared by me, introduced to Parliament by April 28. Other interests led to the registration of the government’s first bill. But our faction, it's responsible and the People's Front will support a bill submitted by the government to make people's lives better. Where can I get the money? This money, thanks to Yatzenuk's work, his government, over-income from the state budget by 14 percent, is 8.2 billion dollars, which is what you can do. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. The report is invited by the Ukrainian national deputy Dudenkov Aleksandar Valerijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u79	Hello, respectable colleagues! Unfortunately, on taxation, pensions are highly politicized. Why? Because each faction now wants to be baptized from the fact that, in fact, their vote imposed a pension tax on them. For example, the leader of the Fatherland officially stated that she had not voted on her faction. And I note that in general, in favour of Act 71 of 28 December 2014, BPT, the People's Front, Self-Help, the Radical Party and the Fatherland voted in favour. What kind of law is that? This is a law that reduced the taxable pension from 10,000 bracelets to three minimum wages. Since December 2014, therefore, in fact, the tax has been imposed on miners, metallurgies, atomizers and others who have received a high pension due to very high contributions to a single social contribution. Why? Because these enterprises have paid large contributions to public trust funds, to the Pension Fund, and of course they receive more pensions. With regard to the People's Front, which indicates that, through the Titanic efforts of the previous Government, they have sought these reserves, that is indeed not true. Because the Opposition Unit addressed the Constitutional Court with a statement of non-constitutional taxation of pensions. We look forward to a decision on unconstitutionality. And the current power to remove this disgrace is taking this legislative initiative. But I call upon all the deputies, regardless of the factions I find in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undo this disgrace, this example of a short-sighted, non-professional State policy. Since taxation of non-income pensions funded by the ERU-based Pension Fund is wrong, economically affordable and simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, when you speak and you call the deputy my last name, I'm forced to give him a line, mind you. Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko’s replica
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, not the Party of Regions, tell us who's bad and who's good. You've ended the country, you've made corruption the essence of the state. [[Applause]] They started a war, led the country to occupation, lost Crimea territory and the Party of Regions will tell you what to do, when you voted in 2016 for all the bills that you then budgeted in 2016 -- and destroyed virtually all the benefits. Dear friends, we now, as the Fatherland, believe that the pensions that the Party of Regions has established: 100,000 dollars, 80,000 dollars, should be taxed against common sense. But for people who receive pitiful pensions, taxes are not acceptable at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u82	Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u83	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The opposition bloc is the only political force in Parliament that takes a consistent position against the pension tax. A year and a half ago, we registered a constitutional application in order to abolish the tax. The authorities have to stop making fun of old people. Yes, today many factions of Parliament have introduced their version of the law to eliminate the taxation of pensions. What is the specificity of my version of this law? First, the tax on pensions is being taxed — a disgraceful decision made by the authorities — is a tax that is not available anywhere in the world. People have spent their lives paying contributions to the Pension Fund, and now they are again taxing them. First. We're cancelling the pension tax. Second. We return to the people all the money that has been paid all this time. People have to get their money back. At the same time, we understand that the opposition bloc is a faction with only 44 people today, and we do not have enough votes to vote on this decision, so we have decided on a faction to vote and support any of the bills, including the government's, in order to abolish this shameful pension tax. I ask everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u84	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhević Yuri-Bogdan Romanović, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u85	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! My bill is different from the government's, because we predict the abolition of pension taxes for working pensioners. Understand that this law, which the government is proposing, is a lie. Therefore, by cheating that is not taxed on high pensions, those who have never paid the corresponding contributions to the Pension Fund remain retired, while they continue to be taxed by those pensioners who work. It's blasphemy and bullying those poor and miserable people who barely survive. Our committee voted in favour of my bill, but under the pressure of the government, the committee voted and gave a positive conclusion to the government bill. I propose to everyone who is really concerned about the fate of those poor people, that they vote for my bill, and only in the first reading. Anyone who didn't just take it on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u86	Thank you. Next report, National Deputy of Ukraine Igor Musijchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u87	Oleg Láska's Radical Party has consistently advocated a shameful phenomenon, such as pension taxation, and we support the abolition of this tax. But love God's truth. There are two things that are hidden in the government bill. First of all, there's the taxation of working pensioners, which is shameful, that the pennies that people of retirement age go from the last of them earn are taxed. And second of all, most of all. Here, crocodile tears were poured by those who hugged the "gold toilets" and ate the "gold bars." So they set pensions for judges, prosecutors, ministers, for themselves 10, 20, 80 thousand. They are also now proposing that taxes be lifted. That's not fair. We're proposing that pensions be taxed on those that are greater than 10,000 740 dollars, that's just 1 percent. These are people who have really been drinking blood for 25 years from the Ukrainian state and the nation, and now they have these pensions. And finally. Leave the working pensioners alone, let the people survive, stop peeling the skin. Barriers in power, stop! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u88	The report is invited to be the last reporter, of all of us to have eight alternative bills, the last one is Chicken Maksim Pavlovich. And I'm asking you to turn on Max Pavlovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u89	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I believe that my bill among those we are currently considering is the most legally balanced and most specific. Because I propose to amend not only the Ukrainian Tax Code but also a series of Ukrainian laws. In particular, before the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance", before the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, before the Ukrainian Act "On the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster". What I'm offering. I suggest you cancel your pension tax, that's the first. But not just freeing them, it'll be unfair, I'm proposing for those people who get pensions above 10,000 dollars to 20 dollars, we have such muddy pensioners that they pay 18 percent of the difference. Those who receive a pension of between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars should pay 50 percent of their pension. And those who receive more than 30,000 dollars 80 percent of the tax should pay. This is not only a question of morality but also an economic one. Because those muddy pensioners were paid their wages. They never, in any way, paid any payments to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, I propose to cancel the lowering factor for working pensioners, and at the same time, this is meant to mean that 15 percent of them don't get it, those who work, renew pensions for working civil servants and local government officials, they get the minimum wage, shame for it. And for the last time. I propose cancelling the moratorium, imposing a moratorium on the indexation of pensions and salaries in connection with the rise in social standards. This is such a complex bill I have. I think it's more legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u90	Please, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u91	I think it's the most productive and most legally justified. But I know that we need to verify all the pros, all the pros, we need to ensure the balance of the state budget of Ukraine. And that's why I propose to adopt the only law in the first reading and beyond in the committee we will work it out and we will bring it out in short, certainly, with a reduced procedure for the second reading in the sessional room of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All the co-reporters made presentations, there were many bills, and a huge titanic work was carried out by the committee. And I give the floor to a co-report to the head, actually, the committee that worked best in that direction, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovni. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u93	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At a committee meeting yesterday, we discussed the whole package of bills relating to the exemption from pension taxes -- government 4542, 6 alternatives to them, and bill 2682, which was previously registered. After considering these bills comprehensively, we decided that there was no bill that contained a balanced decision on exemption from taxes and workers and non-working pensioners. With regard to the abolition of the lowering pension rate for working workers, this is set up by the State Budget for 2016. And the representative of Minfin informed us that such a correction would result in an additional budget loss of 1.8 billion dollars by the end of this year. Given that this is a significant change that can be made to the budget, to the budget, we have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt only in the first reading government bill 4542 and to the second reading to prepare in short order all the proposals that have just been heard. And when it comes to higher pension taxes, to figure out what is the amount of higher pensions, or the 10,000 that was before, or the 10 minimum wages, is that going to be a whole different size? And the tax system, the more faithful tax rate, these higher pensions, could it be 20 percent, or 80 percent, as suggested at the committee meeting? So, really, yesterday at the committee meeting, we made a decision, we overturned our previous decision to the committee on May 12th, there was the author, the reverend Shuhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanovich, who had heard our entire discussion, and agreed that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u94	Please let me finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u95	That we're making a decision on Bill 4542, and all the other wishes we're working on are the second reading. So the committee's decision, the committee's decision, was to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4542, to adopt it as a basis, and to work it out for a second reading on a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u96	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, and for the quality of your work. And now, colleagues, I'm asking you to hold a record for the discussion: two is for, two is against. Please, colleagues, let's log in. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I'm sure the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block will support the bill proposed by the government. And that is, indeed, the decision that has come up, and it will be timely and reasonable. But I want to say a little bit about something else. You know, if you shake people's MPs here, you can probably shake some of them into two pension funds and three budgeting salaries for a year. And it's not just the former regions that in Yanukovich's time were robbing the state and taking money abroad, and they're now missing and hiding these funds. This is true of those who are the ones who are most yelling about political corruption. But what I'd like to say is that those who prefer so-called offshores today should explain for themselves how they fly on airplanes at the expense of business partners, oligarchs, as they buy and don't include party offices in declarations located on the Clovsky eves, how they change their corsets as seals, how they cheat citizens when they say they have 1.2 hectares in a declaration, and in fact families own 12 hectares. So what I'm saying is, these people are the ones who hide their wealth from citizens, and hidden assets are hidden taxes. I want to remind you that in 2014, Peter Poroshenko made 350 million dollars for the modernization of the Ukrainian army, and everyone knows that. Therefore, let those who scream the most today show first. They'll be honest on their own. Oh, yeah, sorry, it's an air shock, and your lie's been getting tired of everyone for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u99	Thank you. Ostrich’s Tetjana gives the floor to the speech of the national deputy, George. Turn it on, please, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u100	Comrades, good afternoon. The Self-Help faction welcomes the government's initiative that they have finally agreed to the proposals of the people's deputies -- and passed a bill on the abolition of pension taxes. But let's be honest: we need, in addition to taxation of pensions, to remove the disgraceful demeaning factor for working pensioners. That is why we propose today to support the entire Suhevich bill – and to correct both pension taxes and the lowering coefficient of working pensioners. When my fellow MPs are concerned about what we're going to have a hole in 1.8 billion dollars, I want to point out that yesterday's factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front" in conspiracies with the oligarchic groups, have failed to initiate the release of the principal of corruption, the head of Mr. Nasirov's Fiscal Service and Mr. Bilan's, who are violating tax corruption and so on, my friends. So don't say you're retired because you're allowed to steal 50 billion dollars on customs. Don't talk about what you are for defense and for the army, because every year, the conversion centers that are covered by the taxpayer of the tax police are costing 3 billion dollars. And there's no compensation for the budget. Don't say you're for creating new jobs, because tax is destroying the business that creates jobs. And you showed it yesterday by refusing to fire. To initiate the release of Nasirov and Bilan. That is why we vote on the basis of the Sukhevic bill as a whole and we cancel the taxation of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u101	Thank you. Shentz Dmitry's "Occupy Block" gives the King's word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! We are considering a very important issue today. And I would like to remind you that the journey to Europe is not a pension tax, but a journey to Europe, it is primarily a desire for a European pension. And I would also like to remind you that the average pension in Europe is 500 euros, not the 40 dollars that you today pay with pride and dignity to people. And I want to tell you that two years ago in our country, the average pension, the minimum pension was $120, three times higher than today. Therefore, the Opposition Block insists that the pension be actually indexed, and that your experience and experiments with pension taxes, with inadequate fees, completely unprofessional decisions go down in history, we vote in favour of every bill that will allow for the lifting of a disgraceful pension tax for every Ukrainian today. And we believe that it is not enough today to abolish the pension tax, that we have an obligation to compensate people for the money they have collected in an absolutely anti-constitutional manner. When you accepted that tax, we registered a bill immediately in early 2015 to cancel the pension tax. And we believe that today we have an obligation to make this decision, we have an enormous obligation to draw conclusions from the mistakes you have made, and we are obliged to compensate people for their resources. And index pensions, not to the disgraceful 50 bracelets, but to the real level of inflation. And to that end, at least go back to the standards that were two years ago in our country. And I want to remind you that in these two years, you've cut them down three times. So let us vote and draw conclusions from those mistakes and never remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I continue, according to my right to a session for 15 minutes. But I'm asking for as many fractions as possible that didn't come out. Ivan Krulko, I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you as promised. Ivan Krulko, then Burbak, then the Radical Party, all the ladies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u104	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, today we must vote in favour of a bill that also provides for the abolition of pensions for all pensioners as well as the abolition of pensions and for working pensioners. You're welcome. Taxation of pensions for working pensioners. There is no need to stretch the matter for another two weeks, and it is needed by pensioners today. But at the same time, fellow honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to the way in which Parliament adheres to the rules. A year ago, Fatherland registered Bill 2682, which today reported, a year we tried to see him in Parliament, a year we were denied. How can it be that a government bill is not registered as an alternative to this, which was registered a year ago, but as a separate bill is registered because suddenly there is a desire to vote on it? So if we want our Parliament to really work for European patterns, let's follow the rules, let's look at the bills in order of order of order and when they are registered in the session hall. The cost of the budget was for this bill, both last year and now, including 1.8 billion to tax working pensioners, is in today's budget. So "Paternity" suggests that a bill be voted on as a basis right now, and in general, taking into account the rules on the abolition of pension taxes for working pensioners. It's going to be a state position, and we can do that right now. And I want to say to the occupation block that there's nothing here to call government forces. Because when the resignation of the previous government was voted out, you disgracefully fled the hall to support the previous government. That's what you were really doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u105	Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will have to support the government bill, because we are a responsible state-owned political power that shares the coalition's responsibility, too, is a coalition government. It's just that it's very fashionable to be in opposition, and there's this phenomenon of "wide opposition." So I would like to remind the opposition that because this government has stabilized the economic situation after the war started, and we've lost 20 percent of the economy, and it's gone into economic growth plus 14 percent, and now you can vote all together for the government bill, and then go to the elections and talk about how you cared about the people. Now I'm interested in another opposition force that made a show yesterday on one of the committees that decided to take it off. You're in human resources policy and portfolios, or the state has to do it. Keep going. The last political power I want to remind you, 500 euros we've already heard in one election, and we've seen how the people have seen it. Let's change this thesis. We're all voting together and we've had enough weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u107	Thank you. Victor Bodnar. Victor Bondar later. Your faction already had a word. Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've seen for two years how most MPs, as members of the coalition at that time, have done so much trouble for people and including for pensioners, that this disaster has come to light today because people on the verge of surviving and unable to account for their expenses and even their minimum needs for existence. Our party has been in opposition for two years, we've been talking to the Rebirth Party about how such infamous decisions need to be overturned, giving people higher pensions, social standards, financing normal health care, financing other issues that people have been demanding for a long time. And it's only now that you've started to hear us now that we're proposing to finish this chat, to go to the vote, and the whole room will say that this question can be resolved if we think in advance, not by playing what we hear today, but by not hearing it yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! We have two speeches left, and I want to tell everyone who raises their hands, which is the logic we're looking at. So when there's a reduced procedure, there's two in favour, two in the opposite, and then those factions that don't get into the list of speakers can ask for a word in connection with the fact that factions have the right to have a word on every issue that's being considered. So I'm only giving the word to those factions that don't fall into the list of two for, two against. If there's been a performance from the faction, I won't give it to another person, because it could last forever, and we'll never make any decisions. Olesi Long, then Vineyard, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u110	Dear friends! Long, faction of the will of the people. My speech will be much shorter because we do not have any political power, and I will not waste my time, and Parliament's time to advertise it, as all previous speakers have done. Dear friends, we have 10 minutes of session left, we've been talking about all these bills for half an hour. In the last 10 minutes, let's stop the discussion and vote, not just on the basis, but on the basis of the whole. And then we'll be able to say that today, at least for those people, as they all say, how much they love them, they did, and not leave it simply to the wasteland and free advertising of all the political forces, and to find out where they lived better, for some people it's bad, and for others it's even worse. So, my friends, we finish the discussion and we vote on all these bills. The more votes he gets, the more he gets. But we will definitely vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, of course, don't be offended. But it is impossible to raise your hand, to demand a word in order to say that it is necessary to stop the discussion. To stop the discussion, You don't have to ask for a word. It's me, by the way. Give me another 30 seconds, Lozov's lineup, 30 seconds, Lewchenko, the line, and we'll vote. Society, prepare for the vote. Let's go into the hall. Please, Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u112	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Consider simple figures: the average pension of a military official is $2,500 and the average pension of a prosecutor is nearly 7,000, almost three times higher. The average pension, for example, for those who receive under the State Pension Insurance Act is less than one and a half thousand dollars, and the average pension of the judge, think about it! - Fifteen thousand 933 bracelets. I ask you very much, my fellow Members, to hear, of all the bills, only two -- this is the Bill of Yuri Shuhevich and the Bill of Ljaska-Misiychuka-Volka -- provide for the non-taxation of pensions for working pensioners. Do you have any idea how much the hospital's working doctor is getting right now? On average, 2.5 thousand dollars. Even. Give me 10 more seconds, please. Not from. What do pensioners do? Not from a good life, because it's an opportunity for them to survive. And for working doctors, for working teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u113	Ten seconds, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u114	Is it not harassment, such as for a working doctor, or for a working teacher? At the same time, the Lachka Bill predicts what to tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u115	Thank you very much. Yuri Lewchenko. And let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall, take your jobs, colleagues, we're about to make a decision. Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u116	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to respond to the reptiles of a coalition representative who said that Yuri Suhevich agreed with the logic of the first bill. It's an honest lie, and he disagreed with it, and he couldn't agree with it, because in fact the first bill is a great deal of pity and butaphoria. Because the first bill improves the situation for 250,000 pensioners about. And that's because among these 250,000 there are 30,000 who get huge pensions, over 8,000 dollars. It's not clear why they need to improve the situation at all, for example, for people who get more than 9 or 10 thousand, right? But there's the Suhevich bill, there's bill 4542-5, which proposes to abolish the taxation of workers, all working pensioners. And that would have helped, not 250,000, but 11 million 300,000 pensioners. It doesn't matter where it's true, and where's the lie?Oh, my God! More than that, you know. And please give me 10 more seconds. I'm surprised by the logic of the Ministry of Finance that talks about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, this can last indefinitely. I'm voting now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. This is the question that millions of Ukrainians are waiting for. I ask you to prepare for the decision and invite you to the hall, and I have come out on more important matters. Dear colleagues, I see they're entering the hall. Dear colleagues, I am the first to make a proposal to the 4542 Committee, which the committee has proposed as a basis. Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation (number 4542) on the proposal of a committee on the basis of a colleague. Please vote. [[18:09:50]] For 307 And you said there aren't so many deputies. The decision is taken, and the law is passed. Maybe in general? Listen. Eugene Nina Ivanovna, one minute. Watch your step! Nina Ivanovna, please, 1 minute. Nina Petrovna, Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, the bill does not provide for the taxation of high pensions. So we're exempting all of them from pension taxes: both small ones, and 30s and 50,000s. So we offered to accept it only on the first reading. And the second is to bring about the fairness of taxation of higher pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m1.u119	We listen to Nina Petrovna. No one knows that better than she does. Now, pay attention! A second reading of the abbreviated procedure. Short procedure for second reading. Please vote, please support. For a reduced procedure until the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:11:07]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Welcome to all the authors. All the teams that worked on this bill. Welcome to the committee. We have made few decisions, but very important decisions for our citizens. I welcome you. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue our meeting. Good-bye, dear fellows.
