ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please register. Please register. [[10:03:41]] 294 deputies are registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputies Vladislav Volodymyrovich Goluba and Alexia Mikhailovich Ryabchin. We welcome our colleagues on their birthdays. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have an event. For the first time, an electronic petition to the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the required 25,000 votes of our citizens. 25,000 323 Ukrainians have asked Parliament to support the Government’s Vocational Education Bill (Registration 3231). Convinced, this indicates an increase in confidence in the legislative body of Ukraine. It is our duty to consider this matter in accordance with article 32 of the Law on the Invocation of Citizens. In connection with the reformation of the government, the Cabinet of Ministers withdrew a number of bills, including draft Law 3231, a petition for which it won 25,000 votes. And that's why we're going to the government, to the Prime Minister as soon as possible, to bring this project to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I know that's what this is all about. And Lilia Grinevich is present in the hall. Lilia Greenevich, we are looking forward to this bill as soon as possible so that we can get the first bill, which won 25,000 votes, to be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The issues of education for us are priority, important, you will fully feel the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope for very close cooperation. Thank you. We have a "hour of questions to the government" according to the Rules. I would like to report that in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are in charge of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday. The procedure for conducting the "hour of questions to the Government" as defined in section 4 of Rule 229 of the Rules. The half-hour speech is scheduled today, this is Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka and Grinevich, and then 30 minutes for oral and written questions. And I invite Vice-Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, Gennady Grigorovich Zubka, to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to thank every deputy who joins in implementing reforms in Ukraine. And I would like such cooperation to continue, too, and I would like your attention to listen carefully to the report that the government is currently doing, preparing for the new programme that was presented by the Prime Minister the day before. But I would like to talk to you today about exactly the reforms that I think are crucial, and where the support of our national MPs is really needed. First slide, please. Today's decentralization reform is a reform that allows us to change the post-Radians governance system that existed in Ukraine independently but did not allow us to develop, because practically everything has been resolved at the central level and practically our citizens, our active Ukrainians have not been able to join the decision-making process. Today, decentralization reform is on its way, and united territorial communities, with budgetary decentralization, having received direct budgetary relations with government treasury since 1 January 2016, have not only been able to collect taxes, but also to use them effectively, namely, to create a territorial development strategy and change infrastructure, to change the quality of life of ordinary Ukrainians. To date, we have 169 territorial communities, and in the past month, we have held elections in ten united territorial communities, and we have joined new communities that are also taking a strong lead in the implementation of the new system of authority. In this month, three more elections will take place, and I believe that by the end of the year we should have prepared practically the moment of power that will allow the unifying communities to come to the elections in the fall, and from January 1, 2017, we will be given the same powers. We now have 76 more communities that have prepared practically for unification, and 16 of them have already received permission from the Central Election Commission to be elected in the fall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like some attention. Mr. Vlade, may I welcome you from this rostrum with your birthday, but I'd like you to listen carefully. The very important question is, every national MP today has a responsibility for the district, the community in which he lives, the community in which he has supported him, and the community in which he should help in this process. I can tell you about the support of the state. Today, you see that there are 3 billion in the Regional Development Fund, 1 billion direct subsidies to the unified territorial communities, but these are the funds that the State is spending on the implementation of State policy in changing the governance system. Three billion dollars to go to investment projects just to support a community development strategy. One billion dollars, I'd like to personally, you know, yes. Get your attention. Why? Because it's this 1 billion, it supports rural development. There are a lot of MPs here today who support our farmers, our farmers, and the development of rural areas is exactly the same as the growth of Ukraine that we expect, because the monetary balance of payments, because economic growth, agricultural processing are the very points that will allow Ukraine to increase economic growth. One billion are specifically designed to support, first of all, those communities that today have brought together more rural areas, more rural populations, and which will enable rural infrastructure to develop itself. This is a very important question why? Because there are always questions about the development of the Ukrainian village, and what the state has done is what the Supreme Council has done. And here I'd like you to join this extra tool to help them implement investment projects. But on the other hand, I'd like to go to the people's deputies today and point out a very simple thing, give me the next slide. To date, local self - government priorities have been set, and when we consider the three billion issues of the State Regional Development Fund or one billion dollars in subsidies in support of united territorial communities, sometimes it becomes even more interesting how local budgets are used effectively. I'd like to show you just one number: in this year, in three months, local budgets almost got an additional 9.5 billion compared to 2015. And when we're talking about the local budgets that we get by increasing our own powers, we're looking at a subsidy of 3 billion, 1 billion, we need to make it clear that we need to help local self-government make effective use of these funds. It's not just depositing them, it's not just getting interest on those deposits, it's actually bringing them into the economy of Ukraine, because it's giving them economic growth. I'd like to say such simple things. Investment projects from the point of view of infrastructure, social sites, from the point of view of the development of local roads, you know, this week, the Prime Minister announced that 2016 will be the year of road construction, which is very important to us. But it is also important to build not only public highways but also local roads. And 35 percent of government funds will actually be allocated to supporting and developing local roads. I'd like to point out why I keep asking for your help and your work in the districts. Because these are the 35 percent that the state is directing, we need them to be used effectively, not from the point of view of repair and quality of roads, but from the point of view of the efficiency of the construction of the roads that will help us build local infrastructure. Give me the next slide. I want to show you an example of two united communities. We are now working very actively with all the ministries, with our colleagues here, this is the Ministry of Education, this is the Ministry of Health, this is the Ministry of Social Policy, this is the Ministry of Justice. And in areas that are already united, we are building an infrastructure that will show how education services, medical services, will be provided. And here we're practically building in perspective where the primary schools are going to be, where the primary schools are going to be, how the hospital districts are going to be built. And the main thing is that we need road construction to go around this infrastructure. It's not very clear here, but you can see how education infrastructure is being built. And most of all, we need to build clear cooperation, and it's the local roads that have to be built around those schools that are basic. It is the school buses that have to be purchased under the infrastructure that is being built by the CNAP – the centres for the provision of administrative services that are being created should be built at those points of growth of those communities that are being merged today. And that's why your help, directly to every MP, I think it's just necessary. Why? Because, frankly, I sometimes feel that some national MPs, when opposed to reform or against unification, remain in the past at all. Let me give you an example. Ternopil region: 26 united territorial communities Four communities have come together within the area. Within the area, only one village that did not enter any of these united territorial communities was not united. And this is a village, a native village, one of the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'd like to address all the deputies first. This is our personal responsibility for the development of territories, for the growth of the economy. Please give me the next slide. Today we are looking forward to signing with the European Union, with the Government of Germany and Poland of the ULED Joint Agreement, which will for the first time provide large-scale financial support to Ukraine to support institutional development. This, I'll tell you, isn't just the cost -- this is the recognition by the European Union of the success of decentralization reform. It is very important to us that not only the European Union, but Germany alone, and Poland has separately joined this process. When they ask what these costs are going to cost, I always say, it's very important for us not to go to the fish but to the wolf. Why, because it's just to build roads or just open CNAPs is very important, but it's very important for us today to teach our active leaders, our active citizens to use the funds, not only those that go with the help of the European Union, which come from the state budget, which goes on increasing local budgets, and most importantly, to be prepared for legal aid, to budget planning, to plan strategic areas, to the issues that our citizens are looking for today. And I'll tell you honestly when we hear skeptics, when we hear pessimists say, "Something didn't work out, something didn't happen at that rate," I suggest we all just go to the region, just go to the united territorial communities and see how the positive point is now going to increase right there, that's where we expect the economy to grow. Next slide, please. Once again, we really need to look at decentralization reform, not from the point of view of the transfer of funds, the transfer of powers, but from the point of view of regional development, it's a development that will raise virtually all of Ukraine. And it's very important to us, and I want to thank every MP who's supported Bill 4355 on the transfer of land to the authorities of local self-government. This is a very important decision. Why? Because we, the central government, and the Supreme Council, and the government, and the President of Ukraine, are able to maximize the capacity of the communities. And it's another resource that communities will receive that will enable them to invest, create jobs. But on the other hand, I'd like to warn every national MP. We really need to determine, by transferring to the communal property of the united territorial communities that now have performances, have heads, have incomes, have budgets, direct budgetary relations, have the potential for regional development of land planning, and have received such resources actually involving investment. On the other hand, when a village council is practically out of pay and utility payments, we hand over resources, we need to understand that we need to control what happens to this land, because we can get Cotsubinsky in every rural council, then who we hand over such powers to. I would like the national MPs to help in this process, because you are practically the leaders of the idea of reform and the leaders of the new Ukraine that we are all expecting today with the Ukrainians. I would also like the national MPs to support the bills already registered in the Supreme Council by the People's Deputies, that's 3638. 3639 is an incentive to further unite communities. Because today we have communities that have not participated in the unification of the territorial communities, but now they want to join the newly formed united territorial communities, in this process, and be united with effective communities. And the next bill. You know that today such a legal coalition has arisen when the United Territorial Communities of the Ministry of Justice, other central authorities of the executive branch hand over the service authority. But on the other hand, by creating the infrastructure, with the possibility of providing such services, united communities are not able to afford these services, and most importantly, to maintain offices to provide such services. So I would like the national MPs to support this bill. And I would like to point out that the Ministry of Justice literally passed on an additional 391 local self-government functions this week. So it's very important. And I'd like us to quickly adopt this law. What else would I like to add? We have today decided to set up a regional development agency. It's a very powerful body that should define a strategy that not only national MPs can join, not just business, not just local council deputies, but practically all the public society that is in the community today. And I think it's this body that will be able to define the regional development strategy, the importance of efficient use of funds and territorial development. I want to emphasize again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, he asks Hennaday Grigorovich for another 10 minutes. Is there a general agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u4	But you have to understand that half an hour for the MPs is going to be, it's going to be a little bit of a delay in our work. Is that all right? Please, 10 minutes, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u5	I apologize, but very important directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u6	It's important, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u7	I wish we had a common position. Once again, I would like to stress when it comes to reforming decentralization. This is a very important reform that we can only carry out together. And today, when I see the national MPs in the Ivano-Frankiv region, in the Sumskie region, in the Donetsk region, in the Luhansk region that are joining this process, believe me, you're building a new Ukraine that will really make it possible to grow. The second question that's very important is energy efficiency reform, but I'd like to start with another. Today, there are bills that appear in the Council with a view to suspending any other introduction of a law. I can say that it is the position of the government and the Prime Minister that the public service, the law, will take effect on May 1st. There can be no deferral from this. We need to move together, and we need to solve problems as they arise. The second question is the implementation of Law 417. I understand that the Supreme Council is very scrupulously considering the Housing Services Act, and it is very important that this law be passed. Why? Because that's the law that prescribes both the question of the manager, the question of the default contract, and the question of the competition, and the question of commercial accounting. I think the Supreme Council will adopt this law, and we will work together on this issue. But on the other hand, I would like to emphasize, honourable national MPs, if we postpone for another year the implementation of the 417th law, believe me, my experience, in a year, we will also consider from this very rostrum the same problems that have arisen. The government today, along with its associates. Along with the National Deputies, he and the experts worked out the possibility of adopting regulations that apply both to the competition and the possibility of a typical contract to the Governor so far without the introduction of the Housing and Utilities Act. I just want you to support this, and the important thing is that our citizens understand clearly, if reform starts, it has to be implemented. And on this point, I would like to have more support from the people's deputies for the following bills, because also the Housing and Utilities Act; and the commercial bill, which will be additionally accepted first as part of the housing and utility services, then as a separate law; and the Law (give the next slide, please). And the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act and the Energy Efficiency Fund are the very important issues that are building Ukraine's independence from imported energy. It's very important for us all to understand, I'm ready to meet every committee, every faction, because the Energy Efficiency Act needs to be adopted. Without defining the building class, we can't conduct energy efficiency measures, and it's the main thing to implement an energy efficiency fund. Why? Because it's this law that determines what exactly was done, how the energy efficiency of the building was improved, and how, in general, we can determine that this is the project that this action should be given State support through the compensation of the body of the loan, through the energy efficiency fund. So it's very important to us that these bills and housing services, and the energy efficiency of buildings, and the law that we've just come up with on energy efficiency, be supported in Parliament. Next slide, please. For the energy efficiency fund. It's a huge market. When I'm asked how you see the growth of the economy, I'm saying that energy-efficient measures are one of the moments that will bring about the growth of the economy of Ukraine. A huge market, 40 billion euros, where there are technologies that have jobs, where there is virtually a new Ukraine that consumes less, pays less and is independent. And that's why the energy efficiency fund is being created, this model is already being presented, and I think next week we're going to be presenting it further. And we're going to be preparing a separate law after this fund is introduced. Please give me the next slide. Which is what gives the direction of energy efficiency reform. 100,000 jobs are highly skilled jobs, they're people who are engineers, they're people who are technology, and this is production that can work in Ukraine today by counter, by IP, by sinking materials, by internal building infrastructure, by redesigning the thermal utility. That's basically a 2 billion-dollar reduction in the pressure of the monetary balance of payments. This is a practical reduction in the cost of subsidies. Why? Because, you know, last year, 18 billion subsidies were paid, and this year, 35 are planned. And that's going to increase if we don't move in that direction. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to build the relationship between the government and the Supreme Council on the principles of reform and reform, with the support of each other. And it's only through our joint decisions that the economy can grow. No one will come for us and will not. And so far, it's the growth of the economy that expects decentralization reform and energy efficiency reform. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u8	Heroic glory! Thank you. I think our cooperation will be as fruitful as we agreed. And, dear colleagues, I now invite you to the report of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailnovna Grinevich. And I would like to ask the MPs with respect to the rapporteur. Honorable colleagues, if possible, take up jobs and listen to the report the ministers have prepared for us. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u9	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Let me tell you today about the priorities that are needed in the field of education in Ukraine. We have crisis issues, short-term tasks and long-term tasks. I'll probably start with a crisis and let you know what we need to do. First of all, the school year is coming to an end. And I'm reporting that 327,000 graduates will complete the ninth grade, and in addition, 441,000 will have to be tested for general secondary education. We found that the mechanism for issuing documents, which had been introduced, would unfortunately have resulted in children receiving educational documents not earlier than July of the month. So we had to take the first anti-crisis measures, and we've already taken a decision from the Cabinet of Ministers that returns the tested mechanism, and we're still saving the budget money from those that were planned before. So I want to assure you that the educational documents will be timely. The next question is the question of school textbooks. As everyone knows, not all children have textbooks for 4-7 classes. It costs 80 million dollars to buy these textbooks from the previous government. And local authorities, local administrations have to add their own funds and make these purchases. They could not, it turns out, make these purchases because of a barrier that was not provided for 70 percent of the printing industry to buy paper so that there was no need for credit costs and that the cost of textbooks would increase. We have now overcome this problem, adopted a corresponding decision by the Cabinet of Ministers at the last government meeting. School textbooks for 8 classes are also moving forward. The contest is over, although we're already a little bit of this logistics. It's slowed down for us, but we have to do everything right now to get the 8th grade kids to the textbooks on time at the beginning of the school year. Another very important task is external independent evaluation. I appeal to the Supreme Council, as soon as possible in the next plenary week, to adopt a government project to finance an external independent assessment of 30 million to pay for the work of the persons involved, that is, those who accompany procedures of external independent evaluation to make it objective and fair. Unfortunately, these funds haven't been set up in time, and right now we need to do this, I'm asking the Supreme Council. It's an urgent task to address the problem of vocational and technical institutions. We have the approach that we are proposing to the Ministry of Finance, and we are going to go to the Supreme Council with a new law on this subject next plenary week. Now, where there are problems, they are shut down by hand, and there must be a system approach, especially from September 1st, when there's a new set of vocational and technical institutions. And here's a very important question for us, this is about amending the budget code. The idea is what? Subsidy for general secondary education and partial training subsidy. From the State to acutely deficient specialities and national specialities, where some schools are trained by professionals for several areas or across the country, and from the local budget the cost of professional training only for the professions used for the communal economy for the maintenance of local infrastructure. This will be quite fair and valid for the budgets of the cities of district centres and district budgets. We don't take, we don't consider the possibility of cities of regional importance that are small and cannot maintain vocational and technical institutions. For us, no doubt there is a very important interaction with local authorities. Decentralisation, which has already been discussed in its report also by Deputy Prime Minister Zubko, has led to a great deal of responsibility on local self-government. This responsibility now lies in the selection of support schools, the equipping of these resilient schools, since the previous government has allocated 200 million dollars to purchase such equipment, as well as the purchase of school buses. There is one bureaucratic obstacle that prevents local authorities from purchasing school buses, and we will take it down as soon as possible. Because it's fixed that they have to give 50 percent of their money to these school buses. But there are areas that are not able to add this large amount of money, so we're going to subtract this fixed figure -- 50 percent. They have to add, but they can add less to unlock the purchase of school buses. In addition, we have serious strategic tasks. And I believe that in the first 100 days we are obliged to develop the concept of a new Ukrainian school. And this concept should be discussed by September 1st in professional circles, among the public, and after that we will be able to introduce a new Law on General Secondary Education, in this context, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, we very much ask you to adopt the Education Act by the end of this session, because without the Education Act, we cannot move forward. This law is being developed today by the Committee on Education and Science for Re-reading. He's ready. We call on the Supreme Council to put it in the agenda, to approve it in the first reading. We're going to work with you on the second reading, we're going to pay attention to all the amendments made by the people's deputies, because when it's accepted, it's going to open up a lot of reform initiatives in the preschool, professional, general secondary, higher education and adult education. I'd like to make a very important point from this rostrum right now. When we talk about a new Ukrainian school, we're talking first of all about a new content of education in this school. Because a lot of people are talking about the 12th year of school right now, but that's not really what's going on at the new Ukrainian school. This length of learning must be applied to the new content. There will be no new meaning, no change in duration, and we will stay in the old post-Radians school. The main idea is to look at the content of education and the new goals of the Ukrainian school. Children must acquire the skills and competences of the 21st century that are agreed upon by the countries of the European Union and that are needed today by the modern - day Ukrainian. In addition to knowledge of national and two foreign languages, information technology, critical thinking, analysis, teamwork, financial literacy and entrepreneurship, our children need education for life, and this is the main goal of the new Ukrainian school. This content should then be applied to the appropriate length of learning. I want to say that no one is going to suddenly start a 12-year-old education without a new content, with no reserved budget, without the proper training of teachers and an appropriate network of institutions. The minimum program -- we've been running a twelve-year-old school since the 1st grade since 2018 -- in this case, we're going to the 12th grade in 2029 -- these are the real terms for Ukraine's entry into the European Union if the plan works. There may be more favourable circumstances if we have funding, if there's content, retrained teachers, we can start with 5 classes or 10 classes, but it's only under favourable conditions, and this plan will be discussed at national level, and it's consistent with Parliament. So today, so that all Ukrainian children don't stay out of the process and access to the new values and content of the Ukrainian updated school, we're now starting working groups on all of the teaching programs: first, disassembly from unwarranted information; and secondly, introduction of a competent approach -- so that these programs start working from a new school year. It's a big, important job, but I hope that all the experts, experts, are also interested in taking a step that needs to be taken to meet our children today and so is teaching. We are planning to sign an agreement on participation in the international research of PISA in 2018 so that Ukraine can finally see its educational system, which it really is, among all other countries that are part of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In the area of higher education, we continue our reform, which was implemented through the implementation of the Higher Education Act. It must be admitted that the introduction of the law has exposed a great deal of his problems. And we're about to prepare a system bill from the government to amend the Higher Education Act to address issues where there are problems. So we're going to have to do a supplement to that legal and regulatory framework that was already worked out in the previous Cabinet to enable us to move forward and implement this law. For us, an important and sensitive issue is also the implementation of the work of the National Agency to ensure the quality of higher education. I've had to report this problem to you repeatedly from this rostrum, why the agency didn't start. We're not happy with how the election went to the agency, and not all of the candidates who entered the agency meet the criteria we would like. Unfortunately, these criteria were not set out in the current Higher Education Act. But not running an agency doesn't allow you to develop an independent system for assessing the quality of higher education in the country, and that's actually true. The Ministry of Education and Science is still a monopoly on all issues of higher education regulation, and we have referred the Higher Education Act to deregulation in higher education. So our plan is to take some steps to get this agency running right now, and we can't admit the choices that the agency has made in a culinary way, we're going to re-election the agency's heads and its deputies, and we're going to start this agency's work. In preschool education, it is now important for us to work with the Ministry of Health to establish new health regulations and unlock the creation of a network of private preschool facilities. Because if the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u10	How much? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u11	If the state today is unable to develop a network of communal preschool institutions through financial economic conditions to keep our children from standing in line to receive preschool education, we need to introduce appropriate standards to facilitate the opening of private preschool facilities, and this is the way many countries are going. Dear colleagues, I will be ready to answer your questions about everything else because, for example, the question of teaching and paying for work and the social status of teachers in Ukraine is critical. And we have to solve it with little progress, at least through the promotion of the tariff network, and then through the adoption of the Education Act and the corresponding budget proposals for the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u12	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u13	Last sentence. Colleagues, I want to build the Ministry's work on the principles of transparency and openness. The subject of education involves an enormous number of people. And that's why we're going to try to get the work of the expert groups to be publicized in all these directions. And anyone could join this job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u14	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have, according to the Rules of Procedure, a question of the National Deputies to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It takes 30 minutes. I want to remind my colleagues that this isn't a faction statement, it's from the national MPs. I mean, there's no requirement that "our faction doesn't have a word." So I'm asking all those who want to ask a question, one minute to spend and make a record. Everybody in position, ready? Then I ask you to record a question to the members of the government. Please record. Alexander Revega, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u15	Please pass the word to your colleague Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I'm addressing you now on behalf of all the deputies who have a bearing on the subject of Chernobyl, so-called. You know, yesterday, unfortunately, we failed to adopt a number of bills that ensure the social status of citizens affected by AES. I have a big request for you: we are ready to continue our work, but we need very close cooperation with the government today. We ask you to determine at the level of the vice-premier responsible for the Chernobyl issues. We're ready to work with him, propose a new concept and strategy for dealing with Chernobyl issues. Now we've activated the MPs, the Chernobyls, we've got the proposals worked out, and we're fully prepared for a comprehensive solution to this issue. We ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. Clearly, the issue of Chernobyl is relevant. The Minister of Social Policy, Andrew Reva, is well aware of the situation and is willing to interact as a minister. And you know that according to the terms of reference and competence of Vice-Prime Minister Paul Rosenko, also a professional and competent person. So I think you can figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u19	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, knowing that you are constantly supporting the topic of road construction in Ukraine, I have a question for you. Now, as a result of the restructuring of Eurobonds along the Ukrawtodor line, we have released 5 billion dollars of additional resources. I have a question for you when an appropriate decision is to be made with a list of roads to be repaired as a result of these costs. And the second question. Volodymyr Borisovich. Volodymyr Borisovich, and second question. We agreed, as long as you were a speaker, that in the first half of the year we would consider the question of splitting excises between local governments, district councils and district councils, because today there is a situation where there is a gas station that works where there is no gas station, where there is no gas station, all the relevant settlements do not receive financial resources. How do you see that? When is this question planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! What I'm saying is that the question of repairing and building roads is one of the priorities of government work. Unfortunately, a little, uh, softly, "Stuff" took time to get ready for repairs in time, and now we're going to catch up on time, we're accumulating all possible resources to fully begin the repairs and repairs of the roads in every area. Because it takes more than a year to get road farms out of the state where they are, and it takes a resource concentration on the one hand, it takes a new technological approach and control over the use of the resource, because you know what you can do at the same price of different quantities. That's why it's important to us, and we're counting on control from the people's deputies in our districts, our territories. And we're working on that. As far as excise duty is concerned. It is clear that a more just formula needs to be introduced. I know there's a registered draft of Anatoly Matviennek's law. But I would like us to do this in conjunction with the local self-government associations, with the local authorities, so that we can actually make a fair distribution. Instead of just taking the community away from one another, they passed it on to others. We need to make a formula that can be both stimulating and effective. I would like to emphasize that for the government today it is one of the priorities of the road. We started working on drugs. What I'm trying to say is, in this area, we need to be serious about order. But the fact that the government is already working with international drug - purchasing organizations provides an economy of between 10 and 90 percent. You can imagine billions walking in your pockets, and it was just a disaster. So we must continue what has already been done, and this has been a good practice. And increase control over this issue. And today we've actually unlocked the supply of drugs. Today, I will examine the state of supply of medicines for cancer patients, including children. We will continue to take steps to open the matter. Well, and the third question I'd like to say is, I'm sorry, I'm already going to take this opportunity, the question of customs. I think, and this is what the public sector thinks today, there are tens of billions of dollars in customs that are involved in shadow equipment and that don't go into the Ukrainian budget. We're literally working daily to introduce new customs control systems. We're going to need about three months, but you know what will be the resistance of the tax collectors who work there today. And frankly, when people can't get pensions at a normal level and steal billions, it's not just a crime, it's a robbery, I'm always talking about it. That's why I'll be counting on you. We're literally going to analyze the comings at each point, we're going to deepen our work with our international partners to solve this issue. Questions of roads in control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Cooper Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u22	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The highest-ranking official in the state service, for having a business or not being released from commercial positions, he leaves office in three days, like a kerosene traffic jam, for corruption. The finance minister said a week ago, he doesn't have an offshore. I lied. A radical party called for the immediate resignation of the minister of finance, Daniluk. Question one. Will the minister resign on his own, or will he wait to be expelled from office by decision of the Supreme Council for his offshore, which is a corruption within the meaning of the law? And the second question. Where did you go to that Syrka, where you borrowed your eyes to come to the Supreme Council and lie to the Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u23	Was that a question to the minister? Of course, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the time of the Minister of Finance is not, I take it, no enterprises have been registered. That's the first one. Secondly, what happened, what happened in the previous period of time, I think the minister has to give an exhaustive answer. If this answer violates the law, he must make his own decision. But I would like the NZC to deal with this issue in a substantive way, because the question is not in retirement, but the question is, if there were violations, if there was abuse and corruption, then we have to take responsibility. It's the minister's personal responsibility, I think he'll comment. And I'm waiting for the authorities to check those data that have to be entered or entered into the declaration, and then I can draw a conclusion from that. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u24	Vladislav Dove. Ah, Minister, yes, please. He's still a minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u25	I gave an explanation yesterday. First. The other one. I've got the lawyers involved to deal with this situation, because I just don't have time for this right now. I take your request as a parliamentary request, I will answer it. Now I have the following priorities. I have priority number one to resume my work with the International Fund. It takes a lot of effort, and it also requires your support. I ask you very much to underestimate this, please help the government and all Ukrainians to adopt the laws that are now necessary for cooperation with the IMF. Let's work on a construct. The second is the reform of the DFS. The Customs Minister has just said this is our common position, and I will do everything I can to help achieve this goal, which is now being sounded by the Prime Minister. As far as the DFS is concerned, I also made my plans clear. I have a very serious approach. Yesterday, he was on the Southern Committee, and there was a very hot discussion, not populist, but on the case. Unfortunately, some deputies held a popular discussion. And we need to do it now, not with populism, but with the eradication of corruption in the DFS, and that will also be done. And the next priority is to change the budget process, where so many people are fed. And that's why I'm taking this pressure too, you might not like it, and we're going to change this process. And there's one other area that can fill in the budget, actually, we have to stop. Some MPs blame me for this, but I'm glad it's people who are totally not free, they're driven by money, who gives it to me, I don't know. But there may be some need to think about this political activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u26	Thank you. The following is a word for the question of Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u27	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Vladislav Golub, Petra Poshenko's Block, 197th constituency, Cherkaščina. I have two questions, one question to Deputy Prime Minister Zubko Hennady Grigorovich and one question to Minister of Fuel and Energy Nasalik Igor Stepanovich. Gennady Grigorovitch, first of all, thank you for your welcome, it's nice to meet you, but I have a request for you. This week, the head of the National Architectural Inspectorate in the Cherkas region was appointed by a certain Mr. Yevmina Boris, a former councillor of Governor Tulub, there was such an ominous enough person, as well as the director of the Capital Building Authority at his governorship, and, if you know, there's already been a drop in the crane in Umani and unfortunately, a man has been killed. I'd like you to take this matter under personal control and correct this mistake. Before Igor Stepanovich Nasalika, I have a question. Here some media outlets are spreading information that you're planning to take as your replacements for someone named Mr. Zhukov, former Minister of Fuel and Energy, or what's it called LNR?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u28	You're not done yet, are you? Please give me 30 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u29	I would like you to either refute this information, or if you support this information, please tell me what criteria you are guided by when you take such persons to represent yourself? And aren't there patriots in Ukraine capable of acting as deputy minister instead of being former ministers, so-called ministers of the LNR and the DNR, who are terrorist organizations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to welcome you to your birthday, and I would like to thank you for this question. And I would like to emphasize once again: anyone in any position in Kiev will never determine whether this is the best candidate for a particular position in the region or not. I'd like us to address these issues systematically. Once again, I urge the authorities of local self-government to accept the authority of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate. In this month, we are still looking forward to the end of this month accepting such powers by the city of Kiev. I know that the city of Lviv is ready to accept such authority. But this is not limited to district centers; it is also true of district centers, and of the united territorial communities, and of all others. So once again, I urge you, with this particular case, we'll deal with it, but no Zubka or anyone else will have enough to appoint in every city or community of such a leader. So once again, please accept the authority, take the responsibility and assign professional people, who unfortunately are so lacking in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nasalik. Please, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u32	. Thank you for the question that came out of the hall. And I want to say essentially. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy is likely to be the most corrupt in Europe. So the first position that was put in personnel positions and probably somewhere before I spoke to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which on May 1st, I hope that the Law on State Service will enter. And I want two substitutes from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy that are to go through a public competition according to this procedure and be appointed. It's probably the only ministry that's taken that step. Second, about Mr. Zhukov, whom you called. If you say he was in LNR-DNR, he should be in prison, that's what the Ukrainian Security Service is doing. But since there's a public council in the Ministry, which is made up of Ukrainian heroes, it's more than 70 people from all sectors -- coal, energy, oil and gas, if this public council has made its proposal for a councillor, I can't help but listen to it. Besides, I have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish, Victoria. In addition, these are the appeals and governors of coal - producing areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u33	Thank you. If you don't mind, 30 seconds. I want to assure you that if what has been said is confirmed, this person will not work in any position in the government. I'm calling on the Ukrainian Security Service right now to check the information provided by the Dove People's Deputy. If it is confirmed by law, take action against a person who has just spoken in a request from a Ukrainian national deputy. And as for the DAC, I fully support what needs to be decentralized, take these powers to their places, there's nothing to be appointed from Kiev. I'd like to take it to work. I understand that this candidature was also accepted by the head of the district government. But, Hennady Grigorovich, commission: check if this person is compromised -- she shouldn't be working in power and a dot. Release this post, we'll have a public contest on May 1st, and please let the people in the competition take these positions and there's nothing to appoint those who can be compromised. Thank you. I'm asking you to inform the MP on the first question and the second. And my assignment is to secure the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u34	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u35	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenck and Minister of Social Policy Reva. On March 30, the Committee on Health asked Mr. Rosenck not to adopt an anticonstitutional, antisocial draft of the Ordinance on Approval of Lists of Production, Jobs, Occupations and Jobs, which gives him the right to retirement age on extended terms, from which, without proper justification, the entire number of health posts is excluded, I would stress, of employees. Cynical answer: "In view of the specificity of the working conditions of health care workers, it is not possible to confirm the right of the relevant workers to retire under the benefits of job testing. What about the infectiouss, the radiologists, the x-rays, the psychiatrists? I have a question for the newly appointed Minister of Social Policy, who claimed to be the Minister of Health: are you even going to defend the legitimate rights of your colleagues and doctors? Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Igoru, I want to tell you that no government regulations on lists 1, 2 have been adopted to date. That's the first question. The other one. Any decisions about changing these lists are being made today through public and expert discussion. No one's going to wave around here and not get going. We're analyzing every profession, every specialty to be useful -- irritability, the possibility of not being able to stay on these two lists. But you also have to agree that these lists should leave only those specialties and people who really risk their health and life and thus have the right to benefits. I want to say right now that there's not going to be a chance to sit anywhere in the office -- and then retire at 45 years of age, that's not going to happen. So we guarantee clear expertise, we're willing to involve the public, scientists and experts in this experiment. And only on the basis of these expertise will the government make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Andrew Keith gives the word Matthews for a question. Ah, the answer's still coming, isn't it? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u38	Dear Igor Mihajlovich, I am the only one who wants to add to what the Vice Prime Minister said: I will protect those people who have the right to pension insurance according to current legislation. And I think you know that as well as anyone else, because you and I know each other well enough. The only thing I'd like to ask you. The Supreme Council will now consider Bill 4456, including your authorship. Look closely at the standards of articles 3 and 4, which are prescribed there, which, if accepted, will have an extremely negative attitude toward our colleagues with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u39	Thank you. So, Matthew, please, Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u40	Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to address you. Today, we have heard a report about major changes in decentralization and the results of united communities. And thanks, including your initiative, to the train. But for me, there are a lot of problems that Hennadi Grigorovich did not speak for today. Moreover, there are united communities that have no prospect; they have no capacity for tomorrow. I'd like to ask you to give Gennady Grigorovich a commission, I don't know who else, obviously, we need to convene a meeting and at this meeting we need to examine in detail the entire monitoring of the situation of decentralization, because in no country in Europe has the voluntary unification of communities been successful, we need to plan the next steps: voluntary and compulsory associations, and move on, as I am, to the local court system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich. I would like to emphasize that one of the priorities of the government's work remains the decentralization of power, the transfer of powers to the highest possible places, and even at this meeting of the first-ever government, we have also made decisions about the transfer of certain powers through Minnesota, and we will continue to do so. Financial decentralization has given its positive effect, we really need to continue to form capable communities, communities that will be able to provide at their own level the services of education, health care, economic, local economic development, that's all. Any reform is not easy, but the fact that this reform is the one that has begun to take place is obvious. Difficulties always are and will be. I want to emphasize that both the government and the parliament in constant dialogue with the newly formed communities are true, and with the authorities of local self-government. Obviously, this needs to be translated into more systematic work. Therefore, there is no objection to inviting representatives of local self - government to discuss all the pressing problems. Please, Hennady Grigorovich. Hennady Grigorovitch, specialty vice-premier. Hennady Grigorovich, gather the deputies, gather the members of the PIC, collect an association of local self-government bodies, discuss the issues that need to be addressed, and form the tasks that all authorities need to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Dmitri Storobubu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u44	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubka. In Chernigov, in Ninja, as in many cities of our country, there is no hot water for the second or third week. The reason is the debt of gas to heat - generating enterprises in these cities, although the population in the vast majority is paying their bills on time. And according to existing legislation, those companies that are in debt cannot get a gas limit to be calculated for prior debts, except for the heating season. In order for NAC Naftogaz to actually include water, which is hot water, which is to give the gas a limit on the heat of hot water, it's going to take a decision from the Cabinet of Ministers to allow it to do so. Therefore, the request to take this into account in your work and to run hot water into the cities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u45	Thank you, thank you for your question. I have a meeting with Naftogaz this afternoon. And we're going to be looking for solutions. I am a fan of hot water in the country’s cities. That's the answer, that's what I'm thinking. And I think today we're going to find a common language with Naftogaz to get people hot water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u46	Thank you. Alexander Nechayev conveys the word of Scorch. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u47	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for the Minister of Education of Ukraine. Dear Lilia Mihailovno, it has been very nice to hear from the time that the next plenary week a bill will be introduced in the session hall regarding the resolution of the situation in the field of vocational and technical education. But will the following issues be settled in this law? First question. The regions don't finance vocational and technical education, not because they don't want most of them, but because they don't have financial resources. Will this matter be settled? The second question. Is there going to be a moratorium on those regions that can, but don't finance vocational and technical education, moratoriums on closing these institutions? Question three. Who will determine the list of these specialties that you have defined as strategic? For example, I personally consider agriculture to be strategic of our nation. And one last question. The sector is not only educational but also social, because it teaches in vocational and technical institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u48	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u49	learn children from families deprived of parental care, from low-income families, and from orphans. Thank you for answering the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. You've rightly called all these problems, which are now vocational and technical education in cities of district importance. And our idea is that we have to make changes to the Budget Code to clearly identify the resource that they will receive for vocational and technical education from the center. In addition, it is important to bring the management of vocational and technical education back to the district level because it is impossible to plan for regional reform of vocational education if it is clouded and distributed among small cities of regional importance. So it will also be important for us to properly determine the level of governance: the area and the district center, the city, the district center. And a list of specialties. I completely agree with you that agrarian specialties are strategic specialties. We're going to define this list in conjunction with the Ministry of Economics, also with the involvement of local self-government authorities, because there's going to be a discussion about what specialities are for the service of the municipal economy and what they are in the service sector as a whole. And before we adopt such specialties of this distribution, we will normally publish them for public expert discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so that we don't have any offense in advance, I'm going to tell you that we're only going to be able to ask two more questions, Musius and Boyko. Our time of questions to the government has drifted away from the fact that the rapporteurs generally had longer reports. So only two questions remained until the end of the government’s hour. First, Musei Oleg. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u52	Dear members of the government, I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we have an hour to ask the government. I welcome your initiative very quickly to draft a bill at the price of medicine. But unfortunately, I don't think you've been able to figure out who put you up with such a bill that not only makes the drug situation worse in Ukraine, but it can lead to Ukrainian market and patients eating all the garbage that's not being used anywhere. Instead, it is not known in the government that there is a national law 2162dd, which is supported by all the factions of Parliament, which regulates precisely for the benefit of patients, the price of medicine. So please draw conclusions and don't be like your predecessors, who have passed impeccable bills for which we were then ashamed to vote in the Supreme Council. I think you should probably take another fashion and communicate with MPs and a quality bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u53	Thank you, Oleg Stepanovich, for your question. I want to assure you that I do. the subject. I would say that this bill, which was introduced by the government, is qualitative, but the truth is that the MPs actually made a very important adjustment to this law, can either make it. the adoption of its law, namely, that medicines that are registered in countries and are used in the markets of these countries. That is, not only are they registered in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, the European Union, and Switzerland, but they are also used in these countries. These two things, as I understand it, will combine the quality of medication. But let it be the MP's bill. And we support it all the way. I only ask that in the next plenary week one of the first to pass this law. We demonopolize the market, make it possible for these drugs to appear on the shelves of Ukrainian pharmacies, and people could acquire quality, a wide range of medicines, and most importantly, that competition would result in lower prices for medicines in Ukraine. Because, sorry, five or six companies that stand to die and do not allow any normal quality drugs to enter the Ukrainian market, this should go back to the past. We, Oleg Stepanovich, are the same people here. And I'm not fighting for leadership. I'd like to see this problem resolved. And with the help of a profile committee. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u54	Thank you. And last question, Oleg Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u55	Helen Boyko, People's Front. Please pass the word "Sumar Victoria."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished ministers! Thank you again for your presence here. Volodymyr Borisovich, Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy at its meeting, was discussing the question of asking Savik Schuster for a study on the persecution of them by the State Fiscal Service. They've got a whole bunch of claims there. I have no questions about the substance of this dispute. There's a journalist's request, Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. There is a question about the publicity of these issues. But the head of the State Fiscal Service, Roman Nasirov, has ignored both the committee meetings and any requests for publicity on this issue. In general, the committee had the first such situation when an officer of that level ignored the full appeal of the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u57	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u58	..and sent no representative, no deputy or head of any department who could report to the deputies. The committee therefore unanimously decided on the need for his report to the Supreme Council. We ask you very much to ensure that Mr. Nasirov is present either at the next government meeting or by some separate procedure. There are a lot of questions for him from different colleagues. And the question of freedom of speech. It seems to me that it is vital to be public and open in these matters today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u59	Victoria Petrovna, thank you. I fully agree with you that everything has to be absolutely transparent and public. Set the meeting time for the committee, since there will be no plenary meeting for a few weeks, and Nasir will personally arrive wherever you say. Do you have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u60	Thank you. This should be the cooperation of Parliament and the government. The time allocated for the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And let's thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We wish them success, we wish them fruitful work. Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, article 25 gives us 30 minutes to make inquiries on Friday. You recall that I have repeatedly said that this tradition and such a construction of the regulations are difficult to build on Friday’s constructive work. And that's why I want to make you an important message. One of the important proposals from the Cox Mission, which have been worked together, is that of changing the Rules. There was a very hard work and an Apparatus, and with Oksana Siroid involved, and a draft bill that is amending is fundamentally changing the rules of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a bill. On Wednesday, when we met with the heads of groups and factions, we actually agreed that the leaders of groups and factions would speak over the week on factions with MPs. And if all the groups and factions, or most of them, are going to be positive on it, I'm going to suggest that we change the work of Parliament immediately next plenary week, and we have two plenary weeks, we'll be able both on the basis, and on the whole, we'll be able to adopt a short-term procedure so that we can immediately change the work of Parliament, including a much tighter discussion with the government on the issues that we're concerned about. Everyone who wants to know, I'm going to pass this bill, we're not going to register it yet, because we want all the factions and the heads of the regulatory committee to sign it up to be a common position. During this period, when there will be no plenary sessions, I ask my colleagues to read, see if there will be any adjustments, and we will bring them in. And I would like to point out that Vladimir Borisovich Groissman actually did this work on regulatory reform, and we are now able to make a decision, and we are going to make a decision next plenary week. And I ask the MPs to take the time of the great days to get to know him as much as possible about the reform of Parliament and the Cox mission we must be quick, effective and effective. Thank you. And I invite you to announce the MP's request to the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, such questions have come to Parliament. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the free provision of a wheelchair by Demyanchuk Kiril Petrovic, a village of the city type of Novoguywinsk Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Provincial State Administration for the allocation of funds for water networks in the streets. I'm sorry. In line with the proposals made by the people's deputies, I'm going to say that we have two requests from the people's deputies Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich and Vladimir Parasuk to the President of Ukraine. But the inclusion and support of these parliamentary requests to the President requires, respectively, 150 and 226 votes in the hall, which unfortunately we do not have on Friday. So in order for us not to lose such requests, I propose that we consider only those questions that do not require a vote. Thus, Victor Razwadowski, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for water networks in the streets of Makarenko, Kotlarevski and Zadrovska in a village of Romanov Žitomirsk. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration for the Conservation of the Medical Institution in Kuznetsovsk District. Arthur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the administrative assembly. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the round table on the reform of the Social Insurance Fund against industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for specialized TB hospitals of the State Penitentiary Service. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, State Employment Service, Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the current state of youth employment in Ukraine. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-abuse of the monopoly status of NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and on the involvement of her leadership in the artificial creation of debts of gas market entities. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on amendments to the legal and regulatory instruments concerning the inclusion in the revenue of the district budget of the Suma Region and the district budgets of other regions of the State of 25% of the rent for the use of oil, natural gas and gas condensate naphtha. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the deputies of the Suma District Council on the non-restriction of authority of local self-government in the field of drug use. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to include in Schedule No. 1 of the draft decision of the CMU on the approval of lists of production, jobs, occupations, posts and indicators in which the right to retirement is granted at an age on extended terms, a list of posts and occupations of the State Militaryly Armed Mining Service in the coal industry. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to take measures to prevent the reduction of workers and the retraining of the Public Shareholder Society "Central Enriching Factory "Ukraine". Michael Bondar to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment to article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the "observance of discipline and ethics by the people's deputies in plenary meeting" and on the assumption of disciplinary responsibility for the absence of valid reasons in plenary and non-vote. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice, who are responsible for the rapid supply of drugs to children with cancer. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing to justice those responsible for financial violations at the National Medical University of O.O. Bogmolt, which caused damage to the State budget of Ukraine. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to provide information on the activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Sergey Laryna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the social protection of veterans and disabled persons of the Great Homeland War. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to determine the power at physical points of exit from the gas transport system to the direct consumer. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, heads of the Lviv District State Administration, to decide on the issue of the allocation of funds for the construction of a capital repair of the district road of the local importance of East - Upper Sinyovdne in the Lviv region. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Lucenko, Cervakovi) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Chief of General Staff, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor, on the investigation of abuses and illegal acts committed by the military officials of the B0095. Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of restructuring information by the National Bank of Ukraine for the indebtedness of the public equity company Privatbank for the repayment of stability loans. Alexander Doubenkova to the Social Insurance Fund for the temporary loss of employment for the provision of material security to insured persons working in enterprises registered with uncontrolled government authorities in the Donetské and Lugansk regions. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental catastrophe of a technological nature in the Žitomir region in connection with the pollution of the rivers of Svet and Gomorrah. Petra Vanata to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the bridge crossing of the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. John Baloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a road around the town of Berogowa and the village of Astej to the international pass point "Lujanka-Beregshuran". Vasil Pétovka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine regarding the distribution of budgetary resources by officials of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the reasons for the imposition of the duty rates on transit freighters of iron and steel. Alons Kosheyeva to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to investigate the facts of the baseless write-off of equipment and the alienation of the territory of the State Enterprise Radio Broadcasting Center. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the repair of Vinogradovsk and Irsavovsk regions of the Zakarpatsk region. Artema Ilyuk, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office on a catastrophic situation in the field of haemodialysis and the failure to provide vital assistance to patients with a nephrological profile in the Mikolai region. Mr. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the execution of the Prime Minister's mandate given to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and the leadership of the Ministry of Health at the plenary meeting on 15 April 2016 on the provision of medicines for children with cancer. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for a special medical observation on the impact of the AES on the health of the population living next door. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent solution to the issue of the provision of children's health care facilities by political structures. Michael Bondar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of the looting of property of the disbanded military unit A1642 in the city of Radehov Lvivsk district and the transfer of property to the property of the territorial communities of the Radehiv district of Lviv region. Alexander Suprunenka to the city's Kiev head in support of the Aspern Foundation charity, which implements social projects in the capital. Alexander Suprunka, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the Protection of Consumers of Housing Services in Kiev. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on transparency in the formation of municipal tariffs. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the attack on the community organization "The Zitomir Regional Organisation of Veterans". Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnick District Council for the promotion of financing the construction of the I-II School of Public Education in the village of Korchik Shepetov district of Hmelni district. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of infrastructure projects on water supply and water management under the State subsidy, namely: “Building a water supply and water supply network in the city of Polone Hmelnitské region”. Jaroslava Markevich to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the realization of the right of residents of house number 27 on the Trubnik Avenue in the city of Nikopol, Dnipropetrovsk district to create OSBB. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of water supply in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the head of the Central Electoral Commission for addressing the head of the Dergachev City Council of Kharkiv District for violations by the Dergachev City Election Commission of the Kharkiv District of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. Sergey Kaplin to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the presence in the activities of officials of the Ministry of Justice of the signs of criminal offences provided for in part 5 of article 191, part 2 of article 210, part 2 of article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Sergey Kaplina to the Acting Prosecutor - General of Ukraine for the transfer of criminal conduct number 420150000001310 from July 1, 2015, following the investigation. Valentina Didic, head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Radio, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, on the need to keep the Dniprožin Radio as part of the branch of the National Television Company of Ukraine "Dnipropetrova Regional Directorate". Andrija Illenka to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration, Head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department in Kiev, on the use of measures of response to protect residents of the Paradise complex in connection with the location of the T.O.A. Center of Adictology in the residential district. Andrija Illenka to the temporary duty of head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City State Administration to review citizens’ appeal and to take action to protect the people of the Righteous region in connection with the deployment of mobile telephone stations in the residential district. Mikoli Skorika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child on the Inadmissibility of the Closed Children's Garden 41, located in Odessa on the Street of Kartamishewski, 10, and the Inadmissibility of Disposal of Public Trades to the Private Shareholder Society of the Union of Orion. Mikoli Skorka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible negative consequences of the restructuring by merging 43 state-owned enterprises and institutions into a separate legal person of public law – the state institution of the "Centre of Public Health of Ukraine". Jacob Besbach to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Child Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Vladimir Aresonkov, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, for the restoration of the financing of the current repair and profiling of general use roads in the Corstomir region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the work of education students in Žitomirščina. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadestre for the violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Air and Earth Code by the Regional Government Administration. Sergei Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate restoration of financing of Ukrainian professional and technical institutions. Group of National Deputies (Jachenka, Barwinenka, and others). A total of 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the full, objective and comprehensive investigation of the cruel treatment of animals and the distribution of materials promoting the cult of violence and cruelty. Dmitri Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of stabilization grants to local budgets for the purpose of vocational and technical education. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of social benefits to the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the creation of a perfect system of social protection for war veterans. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov region of Odessa to the environment's safety and health, the elimination of environmental hazards from unsanctioned garbage dumps that have a negative impact on the environment, which takes place in the area's pollution of fertile land conditions, the conduct of checks on the inaction of control and control authorities and local authorities, and the allocation of funds for the construction of a garbage treatment plant. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration on the use of urgent measures to verify the position taken and the rules of illustrative legislation of the Chief of Social Protection of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov Region of Odessa Region of Dina Basilenko and to carry out a verification of the sources of wealth while on the public service. Mikhail Doubenk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the size of the border spending on hotels of government officials and employees of enterprises, institutions, organizations that are fully or partially supported by budget funds. Leonidas Hamtza and Mary Ionova headed by the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, heads of the Kyiv City State Administration on the gross violation of non-residential property - the city of Kyiv, Bessarab Square, 5 standards of the current legislation of Ukraine and the inaction of officials of local self-government and the State Architectural Construction Inspectorate in the protection of the housing rights of residents of the house. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for Environmental and Sanitary Epidemiological Safety of the People of the City of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kyiv Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the degradation of the land of the Research Farm "names 9 January of the Institute of Bio-Energy Cultures and Sugar Storms of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine" in the village of Lake Bilocerkow, Kyiv Region. People’s Deputies ( Welcome, Parasuka and others, only 5 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for an independent and transparent competition for the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Hmeljna District, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Directorate of the Hmeljna Region for the Prevention of Pollution of the River Homer and the Environment in the village of Poninka (Hmielnitsk Region), caused by the work of the T.O. "Poninkova cardboard and paper factory". Alexia Savchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the budget provided for in the 2015 State Budget for Ukraine to secure the implementation of the debt. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the president of the state-owned enterprise "National Atomic Energy Company Energoatem", Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the current state of the nuclear energy and nuclear-industrial complexes of Ukraine. Bogdan Dubnević to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the development of medical rehabilitation services in Ukraine in accordance with EU requirements. Vasil Janicko to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, the head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plains Region, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Equaloblanergo on the implementation of measures for the reconstruction of the electricity line in the village of Vežice Rokitni district of the Plains region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on material assistance for the recovery of younger nurses and health care workers of state and municipal health institutions. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Valery Dubyl to the Society's Head with limited responsibility for providing documentary materials that support the financial activities of T.O. Grant. Mikhail Golka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to avoid paying taxes and to dissipate state funds to a large number of businesses. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the financing of the State Training Institute "Ternopil Centre for Vocational and Technical Education". Sergia Dunayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical energy situation in the Luhansk region. Ruslana Demchak to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation of funding to the Illinack State Agrarian College. Ruslana Demczak to the Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine on the increasing population problem of providing vaccines against leprosy and vertigo. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the issue of free driving by road in rural areas, as well as suburban connections and suburban and inter-urban routes by persons who participated in the Anti-Terrorism Operation and were given the status of a participant in hostilities. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of valid legislation, building standards, State standards and regulations during the construction of the SELEN-PLUS Society, a manufacturing and assembly complex with laboratory facilities and a boiler on the territory of the Kalinov Municipal Council of the Brovar Region of Kyiv. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the honorary title "Deserved Culture Officer" to Theodore Koran. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Chief of the Western Military and Medical Commission for the establishment of a causal link between the disabled and the military. Olga Bogolitz to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the non-admission of selection to the National Police Patrol Service of persons who have fled from mobilization as a result of previous partial mobilization lines. Olga Bogolitz to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine on the need for a mandatory (no less than three weeks) period of adaptation to a peaceful life prior to the demobilization of military personnel who participated directly in the ATO. Groups of National Deputies (Voznukka, The Watchtower, and others) A total of 4 deputies) headed by the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the wrongful actions of the judge of the Ravenna District Administrative Court of Sal. Mr. Mikoli Veliczovich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region for the commission of criminal offences by officials of the TV Company TEX and the abuse of TV Company "TEX" by their rights and the termination of a legal person who is bound by the executive bodies of the Council of Cherkas. Groups of National Deputies (Sporusia, Dombrovsky, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Vinnick district government regarding the further activities of the company "Uhimivské" in the Chargord region of the Vinické region. Igor Guza to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the need for construction of a 44-bedroom residence for military personnel in Volodymiri-Wolinski, Volinsk. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the investigation of violations of electoral legislation during the election of the mayor of the Grand Duchy of the united village community of the Black Sea region on April 10, 2016. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal obstacle to the unification of the territorial communities by the leadership of the Sokirian region of Cherniewets. Edward Matviyczuk and Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Higher Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review in connection with the new circumstances of the re-commendation of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live in houses 50-58 on King's Street and surrounding houses, regarding the verification of the legality of the construction of the site: the city of Odessa, the street of Queen, 56-A and the non-permission of the destruction of the green zone. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the amount of aid subsidies and subsidies for electricity, heat and water supply and water supply, natural gas, quarterly payments for 2016 in the Odessa region. Andrija Shinkovič to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine for Science and Education, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the establishment of a minimum scholarship for students with minimum subsistence minimum. Andrija Shinkovič to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the need for the treatment of the Major, Hero of Ukraine, Honorary Citizen of the city of Hmeljnické Petrakovsky, Aleksandr Petrovich of the United States. Mustafi-Massi Nyem to head the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service on possible misconduct by the colleagues of the Ukraine’s Chief Executive Office in Zaporozhye. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy by the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine by covering the illegal use of state property land through the management of the Vinick National Agrarian University. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the speedy fulfilment of the requirements of Decision No. 777 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 3 September 2008 and the appointment of the Director-General of the State International Airport Borispil to the winner of the competition. People’s Deputies — Batenka, Jurika, and others A total of 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine, as part of the Government's Road Development Program of the Carpathian Region, for the repair of the N-02 Lviv-Ternopil road, which is in critical condition. Tarasa Batenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the immediate response to the illegal capture and self-constructive construction of the coastal protection strip of the Zadrožně water object (Baikal Lake) The Mikolai district of Lviv. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the creation of a working group with the participation of experts from the State Emergency Services, State Administration, Derzekoinspection, Ukraine, Apostolic and Nicopolian Regional Administrations and the Dnipropetrov Regional Council for the purpose of repairing the emergency section of road N-23, which passes through the water dam No. 8 of the Kakhov Water Refuge. Yurya Bereza, head of the Ukrainian National Migration Service, on the use of response measures to address the issue of Ukrainian citizenship by Yulia Tolopa. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to increase the living minimum in 2016. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Education for the purpose of conducting a TRC screening of "Ukraine" for propaganda of anti-Ukraine TV shows. Sergey Rudika to head the Kamyan District Council of Cherkas, head of the Smilyan District Council of the Cherkas region, acting as Smilov City Head of the Cherkas region, the Kamyan City Head of the Cherkas region, the head of the Cherkas District Council of the Cherkas region, to provide information on the state of implementation of district (urban) targeted aid programmes for the most socially vulnerable groups of the population of "Turbota" in Kamyansk, Smilyanski, Cherkaskie region, Kamyanka city and Smil Cherkas region. Sergey Rudika is under the responsibilities of the city's Smiley Head of the Cherkas region for the provision of free and order documents for the crowning and cutting of trees in the city of Smila. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration for work on the roadside embankment. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to assist in providing Fryk Mikhail Petrovich with appropriate documents of exemption from military service. Jury Bublika is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to supply preschool milk products, which contain children’s fats. Jury Bublika under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of the directors of the Poltavian public education institutions, who tried to pay the fines they had been paid for violating the requirements of the fines payable to the subordinate pedagogical staff. Oleg Osuhovski to the Director General of the National Aviation Company, Ukraine, for the timely and qualitative consideration of parliamentary appeals. Alexander Guerrega to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the formation of an order for the production of personnel in vocational and technical schools. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the preservation of the Ukrainian Society of Fishermen and Fishermen's (UMBR) public organization and the possibility of fishing in Ukrainian farm areas. Alexander Zholobecki to the Director-General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert on the transparency and legality of the competition for the appointment of Fedor Petrov to the post of Director-General of the Department of Justice of 61 Communists and the consequences of his activities in charge of the company. Groups of National Deputies (Zolobecko, Klanya and others, only 8 deputies) to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district for information on the opening of criminal conduct on the creation of fictitious creditor debt through the leadership of the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant OCEAN. Groups of National Deputies (Klanya, Žolobecký and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district for the verification of the legality of the privatisation procedure of the Pat "Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant "Ocean". Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of the bridge across the Sula River in the village of Mliny Lochvitsky district of Poltava region. Olega Kulinić to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to change the order of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine from March 19, 2013, No. 129. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his contribution to the Global District Centre for Primary Health Care of Specialised Means of Transport. Gregory Times to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to eliminate the negative effects of the work of the CP "Chernovitzivodokal" in the village of Magala Novoselicka district of Cherniewice, which causes soil and groundwater pollution. Victoria Voytzicka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to address the issue of tax debt to Pat "Ukranafta". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for the immediate cessation of delays in the implementation of targeted (green) investments related to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol's obligations to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the use of a package of measures to bring the energy supply systems of the Black Sea region to proper technical status. Sergio Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of the protection of the rights of internally displaced persons. Groups of National Deputies (Vinnik, Tkakok and others, only 5 deputies) to the head of the Kiev District Council on the publication of the transcript and minutes of the plenary session of the extraordinary third session of the Kiev District Council since 20 April 2016. Viktor Romanyuk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the discharge of Lukashewich from the post of Prosecutor of the Department of Oversight for the Enforcement of Laws by Internal Affairs Authorities in the Investigation of Crimes against Life of Supervision in the Criminal Procedure of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region. Victor Romanyuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release from office of Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine Pavlenko O.S. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not receiving a response from the Cabinet of Ministers to request No.11/10-549 of 18 March 2016 regarding the non-admission of the missile and space sector of Ukraine and the resolution of the situation that has arisen around the DP KB "Southern" name M.K. Angel: Amendments to the Statute of this State Enterprise and the compulsory and baseless release of Degtirov from the post of general designer, CEO. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of internally displaced persons with regard to the need for urgent compliance with Ukraine's legislation with a series of legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine relating to the rights of displaced persons and persons residing in the temporarily occupied territory. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the submission of proposals to the President of Ukraine for the lifting of decisions by Kharkiv District State Administration, Kharkiv District State Administration. District State Administration of Kharkiv County, Kharkiv District State Administration for the approval of a detailed plan of the area of the complex for the management of the municipal wastes of the city of Lubotin Kharkiv district, for the permanent use of the land area, for the approval of the construction work project. Roman Semenha to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the lifting of the order of the head of Kharkiv District State Administration of Kharkiv Region for the approval of the detailed plan of the complex for the management of the municipal wastes of the city of Lubotin Kharkiv district, for the review of the management of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the permanent use of the land area, for the approval of the construction project. Groups of National Deputies (Kingdom, Paulenka, Solod) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the fifth session of Session VII to convene the Corestinian City Council on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Groups of National Deputies (Makaryana, Livika, and others) A total of 6 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the creation and activities of an organized criminal group in the territory of Zaporez. Anton Heraszczenka to a limited company responsible for providing information and documentation. Anton Heraszczenk to the public limited liability company "Urzaliznica", a limited liability society "Lifsell", a limited liability society "The Atrak Company", a limited liability society "Atrak", a private shareholder company "The Telesystem of Ukraine" to provide information on the fibre-optic lines of electricity in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Jury of Macedonia to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation of criminal conduct. Groups of people’s deputies (Brenzowich, Sporish and others) A total of 5 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying criminal investigation into the fraud of Nikifor Karpov. Aunty Donz to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding government debt. Jury Levchenka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Kirovograd District Council, the Golovanov District State Administration, the Kirovgrad District State Administration, the Emilian Rural Council, the Glavánov District Council for the closure of the school in the village of Emilyvka Golovanovsky district of Kirovgrad district. Jury Levchenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Director of the Department of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in Kiev for the violation of city standards and the well-being of populated areas by the Society with limited responsibility for "Eurworking" in Baggovutovska Street, 1st, which will pose a threat to the lives of residents of adjacent residential apartment buildings and the task of material damage to the environment in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Ljubomir Zubak to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the verification of the facts of the creation of a pseudo-territorial community. Mikoli Kucher to the National Police of Ukraine, U.K. Attorney General's Office on violations committed by investigators in the search of the non-residential premises of the Fertilizer. Paul Dzublik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funding for the maintenance of the Žitomir region’s highways. Jury Derevjanka to the director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive and objective investigation into criminal conduct No.4/201611000000209 and the need to investigate the possible commission of criminal offences by law enforcement officials and other persons who may be involved in the fabrication of criminal conduct against Momot’s High City Head. Igor Guza to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Pavel Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to restore the recalculation of regressive payments to disabled miners on 1 March each year. We've completed our enquiries. And according to the Rules, I announce a recess in the morning session for up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we invite all the national deputies to the session room, please. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have to say that we are now to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council. And I invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for speeches on various issues. And while the speeches are taking place, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to thank our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has worked very well this session week and on Thursday 21 April, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted an extremely important resolution calling for the release of Ukrainians who are illegally detained in the prisons of the Russian Federation and who are talking about our colleague Nadia Savchenko, and who are also being held in prisons in occupied areas, it is 115 prisoners today in occupied territories and at least 12 of our colleagues who are actually being held in prisons of the Russian Federation. We thank our delegation to the Ukrainian delegation that worked at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for this resolution to be adopted. And I'd like you to put the MPs on the screen right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Let's start the discussion, please. All right. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. At the request of the Ukrainian National Deputies, we are currently recording a re-recorded performance from the rostrum under the heading "Rizzne". Please sign up. We're signing up, dear fellows. All will speak, all will speak. Dear colleagues, I very much ask that we demonstrate Europeanism in our work. Okay? We will always find compromise, understanding. Mr. Andrey, you'll have the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey, you'll have the opportunity to speak. Thank you, please put on the sign-up board. I invite you to Mr. Musia's word. Mr. Musai, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u63	Good day, distinguished national MPs, good day, Ukrainian people. Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red Town, 124 constituency. I want to draw the Ukrainians' attention to the inconsistent statements that have been making during the past week about the possible increase in so-called tariffs. You know that all of us in Parliament and the entire democratic opposition are clearly opposed to a thorough analysis of the basis that has not been given to the people's deputies to date. The question of raising any tariff. Instead, we hear Prime Minister's first statement that tariffs will rise, then other ministers say tariffs will not rise. Then the Prime Minister himself denied that the prices seemed to want to be raised, and that would not apply to the population. So you want some definition. So I'm going to ask my statement, the leadership of the Supreme Council, to form as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give a clear answer as to what will happen with the electricity tariffs in the near future, what government plans will be with the gas tariffs and what will happen with the population poverty in general, and how this government is going to cope with this population poverty. We see that a similar situation that is not being rectified, unfortunately, is also happening with regard to vocational education. I request and demand the leadership of the Supreme Council at the next meeting to ask one of the first questions about overcoming the President's veto, which was actually raised by former Finance Minister Jaresko, this paper-based statement that this does not meet the requirements of the IMF, that it does not meet the requirements or budget that Prime Minister Yatsenuk and Jaresko then considered. And instead, we see statements now made by the new prime minister that we have a government budget surplus of nearly 15 billion dollars. And the price of the question to save the trades, the price of the question to save science, the price of the question to save medicine from poverty, to save agriculture, is just 10 billion dollars together. The price of the issue to save the coal industry and the coal industry from destruction, on. which is now in the state budget, it's just 4 billion dollars 5 years in advance. So maybe after this failed leadership of the past government, we'll turn our faces back to the Ukrainian people and make life easier at last, even if it's an elementary new government policy. I sincerely hope so. Glory to Ukraine! And congratulations to all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u64	Thank you. Mr. Dombrowski, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u65	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national MPs, today is a unique day because today is the day of the earth. This is the day when all mankind understands that we are living in a global world, and in order to make future generations happy, living in an environmentally clean and right environment, there are many, many problems that we need to solve on our planet. Today, in New York, the Paris Accord will be signed at UN headquarters, allowing very serious attention to be paid to the climate on earth in terms of warming, in a controlled process, because this is what we, our future generation, need. In a few days, we will, in a tragic sense, celebrate the 30 - year - old Chernobyl tragedy, the result of which is very difficult to appreciate to date. How many have died, how many have been sick, how the Chernobyl tragedy has affected and affected future generations of Ukraine and countries that are our neighbours. But Ukraine is a powerful atomic state. We've used a peaceful atom effectively enough for many decades. And unfortunately, today I have to say that Energoate, as the main generator, the energy-generating company of the country today, is in an extremely difficult state. All the accounts on the EC Energoatoma are blocked because there are questionable companies that are just trying to rip up a bush or steal it, take over 140 million bracelets in Energoatom to the Energoatom, with completely questionable debts that have the historical roots of the early 1990s. I'm very surprised at the situation around this envelope, because this cynical attitude towards nuclear energy in Ukraine, I don't think, hasn't been in almost 25 years of independence in Ukraine. Ukraine is one of the ten nuclear countries of the world, and Energy is one of the basic generating companies for us. And I ask that my speech be regarded as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to the Ministry of Justice, in terms of protecting the interests of the state and the Energoatom, not to protect those structures that today are trying to steal suddenly, cynically, money both from the state budget and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. The representative of the People's Front is invited to the floor, Deputy Kirsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to talk today about the plight of the Kharkiv Conservatory of the Institute of Arts. Today, this university is famous not only for Harikov but for the whole of Ukraine. A rare university in our country can boast of the number of diplomas that students and graduates of this university have at the international level. Diplomas are no longer meant to make words. And there's no place to fold them because there's just a banal lack of classrooms. Enter this school at any time of the day and night, on a Saturday night, between Saturday and Sunday night. All the time, all the audiences are busy, all the students are busy, all the time rehearsing. There's no free space there 24 hours a day. Why is this happening? This is because the previous administration of the vase has managed to rent half the suitable premises to the composers' union. These rooms are always empty. The composers' union meets once a year for its symposia, but students can't get in. The lease is left there, it's sticky, it didn't even go through BTI. However, it is virtually impossible to expel composers who prevent our young people from learning from the institution. He's dragging a miserable existence. Students going somewhere, somewhere to study, conditions extremely unsanitary. And great audiences, which make up about half of the curriculum, are in use of the Union of Composers, which does not even need them objectively. I ask that this statement be considered an official request to both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science and the Deputy Prime Minister for Humanitarian Affairs. Save the harrick conservatory, it's worth it. There's the best footage, the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. Under the transcript, please prepare an appropriate address from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, a representative of the Rebirth Group, Mr. Ostapchuk, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, working for 12 years as head of the Southern Railway, then as a national deputy, I had to do much to develop national sport, professional and amateur. I'm a member of the U.K. Olympic Committee, president of the Federation of Time Swimming in Ukraine, honorary president of the flagman of the Ukrainian volleyball club Lokomotiv in Kharkiv. In the heavy '90s, along with his colleagues, he created practically from scratch a mini-football team called Locommotive, which is now the basis of a national collective. And it hurts me to see how everything that was created not only by my work, but by the tremendous efforts of many generations of railways, railway leaders and industries, is now being destroyed. The so - called reformers called the process of destroying the social sphere of the railway by depriving it of non-professional assets. But that doesn't change the point. The first step in the collapse of a social structure that had been built for over 100 years was the destruction of railway medicine. 75 railway hospitals, hundreds of medics, and thousands of their patients have been victims of these unreforms. Now it is the turn of the field sport. In March, an amateur football team called Lokomotiv (Kupyansk) was eliminated, whose history is nearly 90 years old, and now they have reached teams and athletes who are proud of Ukraine. In particular, the Lokomotiv volleyball team, the base team of the national and youth collective Ukraine, the multi-year leader of the national volleyball team, the five-time champion of Ukraine, the first of the Ukrainian teams to become the ruler of the European Cup in 2004. This was the first time we had participated in the League of Champions. But perhaps no one needs it. The club has already received a report that financial assistance from the railway team will not be available. This black mark has also been given to our synchronized swimming masters, who are part of the world’s sports elite. This year, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, our girls received two Olympic licences. And our team has a real chance of bringing home an Olympic medal and not even one. So much work, sweat, and the blood of athletes, as well as the training headquarters, has been invested in this success, which we have experienced in the last 20 years. And what they have to get in return. What a mood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u70	You have 30 seconds left, come on, you have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u71	In what mood they will go to Rio, knowing that they do not have a future in their home country. And where do they go after the Olympics, where do they go to Locommotiv's volleyball players, go to the eastern neighbor and win titles and medals? What can thousands of boys and girls expect from our children’s sports schools? Yes, they would like to build a sports career in Ukraine, protecting the honor of their homeland at world championships.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. The next speaker, Mrs. Ptašnik, gives the floor to the national deputy to the representative of the Petr Prashenko Block, Barney, and we invite you to the floor. Prepare Mr. Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u73	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! Glory to Ukraine! As the elector of Ternopilska, an agricultural district, I am concerned about the condition of agriculture. And I hope that the real government will return to small farms and family farms, allowing small farmers to create conditions for the cultivation of large cattle and dairy, and this requires a total state program, lobbying the interests of small businesses in the countryside, not agroholdings. In addition, there must be a state-owned program of deep agricultural processing, so that Ukraine is not just a raw supplement for Europe, but we must be Ukraine, which produces and exports finished products, we must remain a high-tech state. In addition, it is important to note that the product should be sold for export by its manufacturers, not by intermediaries who do not know anything about the land, but who charge the largest amount of money. And hopefully, eventually, the Ministry of Agriculture will sort out a half-year-old cynic evil and corruption epoch with a competition for the position of director of Ukrispirt because a sector that has been constantly profitable cannot be in the context of loss when it forms a monopoly of the state. And the question is more likely not to be in the bankruptcy of Easter, but the question lies in the incompetence or theft of the previous leadership of the sector. In addition, I want to ask the Ministry of Finance to correct a mistake, an unreasonable error, or a deliberate error that the previous Ministry of Finance administration introduced excise duties on tobacco, thereby "stilling nails" into the development and existence of tobacco production, into the work of tobacco and fermentation plants, because by placing excise duties on them, they compared them to the production of ready tobacco products -- cigarettes that now control Western markets. In this context, we need to correct this error because of our previous lack of reasonableness in the Ministry of Finance. So I'm also going to the Ministry of Infrastructure to introduce a high-density freight program to the railway to save the roads. And I welcome the entire Ukrainian people with the next Easter holidays, wishing everyone happiness, health. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Mr. Suhevich and the Radical Party of Láška are invited to attend. And he is given the word by the national deputy Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u75	Ukrainian people! More than a year ago it was registered and passed the Women's Allowance Act at 55 years of age to retire in the presence of a 30-year internship and those who lost their jobs. The Presidential veto was imposed on this law. For over a year now, this law to overcome the veto has not been introduced into the hall. So recently, when they picked up, there was an increase in living minimum, those women were followed, they didn't get that minimum, and they get 950 today. Soon they will raise the cost of living again and again these women will be followed. So we've registered, I've registered a law on pensions not below the minimum of living. Imagine the discrimination of these people who have worked their entire lives, who are 30 years of age or older, even though they will be retired because they are 55 years old. Another, at the same time, is the efforts of judges, civil servants to restore privileges. The judges filed a bill that is already in the Supreme Council that they should receive 90 percent of their final salary at retirement. Can you imagine? Some judges have 80 to 100,000 and the last salary, 90 percent of it, they get as a pension, paying contributions -- the only social contribution of only 35,000 -- which is discrimination for ordinary people. This one. The Ukrainian people need to understand that otherwise, as the struggle for their rights once again, we will not gain anything because it was Midan who stood for it so that these privileged people would regain their pensions and that the category of those who worked hard all their lives would remain following? No, Midan did not stand for it, and justice must be restored. And in order to restore it, we must fight for it. And I call on the MPs to vote in favour of the bill when it's in the hall to give the pensioners no lower living minimum. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u76	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Mr. Shuhevich. Mr. Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Láška, is invited to attend, and to prepare for the national deputy Goose, who is given the word of the national deputy Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u77	Dear Ukrainian people! On April 26, the entire Ukrainian nation will honor the heroes and celebrate the 30th anniversary of the coup d'état of Ukrainians against the greatest technological catastrophe of mankind at the Chernobyl AES. Last week, when I was talking to voters in Lubna, Piratina, Gadhachi, Mirgorod, Grebinkah, I heard hundreds of questions from the Chernobylites: why, when they were finally getting their status and social benefits back, they were taken away by the previous governments of the country. So they demanded, and demanded, and were willing to come under the walls of Parliament, to demand that a draft Law on the Return of Charity be passed to the Parliamentary Hall for radical authorship. Deputies from the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, 4442. But, at the same time, yesterday, he got a lot of calls from the Chernobyls. Because the coalition of cynic barriers, oligarchs, and open agents of the Kremlin supported the President’s veto yesterday for a social law that would improve the condition of the same black people. But what about if there are ministers in the government like Alexander Danieluk, who under pressure from the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska confessed to the fact that he runs three offshore companies: two in Cyprus, and one in the Virgin Islands? He confessed to lying in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. No reaction today was heard from him, only he asked him not to prevent him from negotiating with the IMF. The question is, where will the funds that will come from the IMF go, is rhetorical. It's probably in the offshore companies of Daniluk. What else can I expect from a government that does not implement the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to reinstate the post of Penitentiary Director Sergey Staryenko? What to expect from the government of Dusty-Grysman, which is absolutely antisocial. Please consider my statement to be a question to the NAB and the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that, according to the Supreme Council Rules, parliamentary requests should be duly registered, but I ask you to prepare them for the transcript as a parliamentary request, and please register the request. The national deputy Gus, who is given the word by the national deputy Gabrieluk, is invited to the floor. And prepare for the people's deputy Sidorovich of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u79	Glory to Ukraine. Igor Gus, Volin, 19th constituency. I've already made this point from this rostrum. Sadly, in a year’s time, the Ukrainian State was unable to move the issue. That's the point of it. In my constituency there's a heroic 51st, today it's called the 14th Brigade. And in 2008, in the city of Volodymyr-Wolinski, a 44-bedroom building began to be built. By 2013, this building had been built and, in fact, in 2013, the state of construction was 80 percent ready. Unfortunately, over the past three years, both the city council and the district authorities, including myself, have sought out the Ministry of Defence, and I am now also addressing not only Mr. Poltorick the minister, but also Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Groysman. In fact, the authorities could not find this 20 percent of the money to build this house. Over the past three years, the roof has actually rotted, and there are wall problems on the 5th floor. I mean, unfortunately, we can get a situation that is actually a ready house for the families of the military, including the families of the dead fighters of our 51st Brigade, may be, well, not destroyed, but we'll still have to invest more and more. So I urge you to find the funds to build this house. I invite Vladimir Groysman when this house is built. Because today there is some kind of information: it is acquired, it is not acquired. I want our brigade and the fighters they receive and their families to receive shelter, clear and clear information. Let's say it's September 1st or July 1st or October 1st the house will be built. And the Ministry of Defense delegation, perhaps headed by a minister or a prime minister, will open this house. So I ask you very much to consider this situation. If this building were from scratch, I'd understand. 80 percent readiness to complete this construction. So once again, Mr. Poltorak, Mr. Groissman, note, conduct a proper analysis of the situation, and do everything you can to build it, this house. I am convinced that the people of Vladimir Volinsky, Volin and the brigade, who have served now, will be extremely grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. Welcome to our colleague's word of self-help of the national MP Sidorovich, to whom the word "deputy Opanasenko" is given. Sorry, prepare, please, Deputy Reveza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u81	Good afternoon. I want to address both the Ukrainian Parliament and our citizens. Last morning, in the Ukrainian Parliament, unfortunately, an irresponsible populism triumphed. What am I talking about? Yesterday, one of the most important and very mature, painful problems was the reform of court decisions. Dear Ukrainian citizens, do you know why this question was failed by Parliament yesterday? Because the Ukrainian oligarchate is not interested. Is there a problem for the Ukrainian oligarch to enforce his judgment? There's no problem. Is there a problem for the Ukrainian oligarch to block the execution of a court decision? No, there's no problem at all. Nine out of the 13,000 Ukrainian citizens’ appeals to the European Court of Human Rights have to do with the failure to enforce judicial decisions. I said yesterday from the parliamentary rostrum that the problem in Ukraine today is not unique. The same problem existed in the Baltic countries: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria, Georgia. These countries have gone along the path of the reform that is being proposed today. And when we decide to support or not to support this reform, we need to understand how we can guarantee one of the fundamental rights of a Ukrainian citizen, of course, an average citizen, is to be able to enforce a court decision. Because the situation for today is seven cycles of hell, man is going to get a court order, these are our doctors, these are our pensioners, and then he's going through 27 rounds of hell to get this court order done. If we do not put this situation at the root, our complaints will continue to come from our citizens to the European Court of Human Rights, and we will take the last place in Europe to ensure the enforcement of court decisions. So I still want to hope that Ukrainian parliamentarians will take a really pro-government position in the interests of a citizen, an average citizen, not an oligarch, and the next plenary week will adopt the reform that is so necessary and late, frankly, for 20-25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. The People's Deputies are invited to the floor by the People's Deputies of the Petra Prashenko Block of Revegue, who is given the word of Deputy Barna. And to prepare is Mrs. Mantis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u83	Good afternoon, fellow MPs, good afternoon presiding. Today, there is an acute problem in funding vocational and technical education. You know, I want to give a brief example from my hometown of Berdichiva, where today there are three vocational schools, about 900 students, about 100 orphans, 236 coworkers. You know, they're all taught there by 20 percent of hillbillies, and 80 percent of them are taught by children from the village of low-income families. You know, understanding the problem of today's city council MPs have allocated 5 million dollars to the first quarter of the city budget, but there are also 13 preschool schools of 40 million dollars, as well as an out-of-school facility of 4 million, and 20 million is also being allocated from the city budget to pay medical and educational salaries. Therefore, the city’s budget today cannot bear such pressure. You know, I think it's probably the Ministry of Finance experts who leaked misinformation to the President of Ukraine about the sources of the coming financing of trade and technology. That's why I'm asking you to send the bills to the committee for work and get back to the old government budget funding system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Mantis is invited to the floor by Deputy Kudlainko. And prepare for Deputy Parasuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u85	Masterful colleagues! Today, there is a day of melanoma in Ukraine. Melanoma is one of the most malignant tumors in Ukraine that makes mortality very high. In 2009, the first volunteer movement of doctors began to spend days in melanoma to teach people how to identify a family that is dangerous. And I want to show you the real numbers. We have been able to achieve a 10 percent reduction in mortality in Ukraine in 7 years. This is a real, very cool indicator of how public health works and what it is. My goal over the next 10 years is to bring this indicator to a European figure where 26 percent is mortality. And in the United States, mortality is only 12 percent. And actually, at this point, today, last year, melanomas were screened free of charge in private institutions and state institutions by 120,000 people. 208 fatal diseases have been detected. If she, a melanoma, is diagnosed at the right time, there is no risk of life. And the public, this "For Early Disclosure" movement today has been diagnosed with over 2,000 such diseases. This indicates, in fact, the willingness of Ukrainian society to change. And it seems that the figure of 10 percent in 7 years is not much, but it's actually hundreds and thousands of families that haven't lost their loved ones. Because the disease seems to have increased, but the mortality rate has decreased. And at the end of my speech, I want to say that the Health Committee has prepared 20 laws that lie in the stream today and do not go to the meetings of the Supreme Council. I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council to Mr. Paris not to hold these laws, but to put them to the vote in Parliament by the Law on Medical Devices, which the Committee has been working on for a year and which allows the opening of the Ukrainian market exclusively for quality drugs, to destroy the pharmaceutical mafia and to increase competition, which will reduce the cost of medicines on pharmaceuticals. Therefore, I very much ask for all the laws, 20 of them, to be put to the Supreme Council for the next sessional week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. People’s MP Parasuk is invited to attend. And get ready for Deputy Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u87	I would like to announce right away that this is my joint speech with Deputy Sergei Evtushka. First of all, we want to thank all of those victims, the people who were taking down the Chernobyl disaster. And what we're saying is, if it wasn't for your heroic act, I don't know how things would be happening all over Europe right now. But I'm very sorry that we voted yesterday in favour of overcoming the President's veto to restore the benefits to the Chernobyl disaster liquidators. And a lot of senior MPs voted not to get over that veto. So, your honors, if a deputy comes to you and tells you about the bright future, you ask him first why he took the benefits from you, ask the President why he did it. This is the first part of my speech. The second part of my speech, I want to dedicate it to my district, is Yavorovstina and Jovkovščina, namely, the question of roads. In my district is the largest region in Europe – Yavorowski. Each day, dozens of units of equipment travel on inland circuit roads. And unfortunately, there's no funding at all, but the Yavorovsky and Jovkovsky region have three checkpoints through which hundreds of cargoes travel throughout Ukraine. And unfortunately, we don't have the road again. I don’t know if it’s all about politics or the unwillingness of local officials to do something, but I would like to ask the superiors of our state, ministers, to make sure that they pay attention because people already want to cover the road. Because when our colleagues from the Republic of Poland or from other countries of the European Union come to us, they look at our way, and they say, how good it is that you left these roads in that state, we can see how things have developed since World War II. As my friend, who was coming to visit me, said, and I invited him to the Krekhiv Monastery, by the way, one of the most visited monuments of architecture in Western Ukraine, and when I drove down that road, he said that it was not a road, but a trench for shooting from a horse. So what I'm asking is that we don't embarrass ourselves in front of our Western partners, so that we don't tell them at different conferences, that we're reforming the road, and actually completely. We are reforming the country, and in fact everything is not as it is. Please consider my statement on the roads as my deputy's address to the Minister of Infrastructure and Prime Minister Boris Groysman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u88	Vladimir Groysman. But I'm asking you, under the transcript, to form Mr. Parasuk's performance as a parliamentary address. And a representative of the Radical Party, Lalashka Deputy Linko, is invited to the floor. Get ready for Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u89	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. I welcome all the audiences, all the Ukrainians, my distinguished colleagues, and I would like to inform you that there are almost half a million Ukrainians living in hostels in Ukraine. This week, the Supreme Council adopted a second reading and, in general, a very important bill of 1076, which allows residents of these hostels who have lived for more than five years to privatize this only residence for them. I know this problem because I used to live in dormitory and not in college. And for many Ukrainians today, it's the only place they can live. Unfortunately, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, because of the incomprehensible status of these innkeepers, many innkeepers privatized thefts as opposed to housing. For almost three months now, in Kirovograd, my hometown, there are two innkeepers living in the city’s central square, who have virtually no right to live there, even though they have lived there for more than 30 years. Because local thefts, local criminals have privatized and abused these residents of these hostels, giving them neither the right to prescribe the child nor the right to rent it, and thus people still cannot exercise the right to privatize it. It's very good that we've adopted this bill. But unfortunately, in order for people to be able to have so many of these questions not only in my hometown of Kirovograd, but also in Vishnov, I met people there, all over Ukraine, about a hundred people, and maybe more dormitories that are actually in the hands of bandits today, and people can't use them, because the State Property Fund can't grant status, a reference to the status of these dormitories, that they were originally dormitories. And there's a legal coalition that actually privatized dormitories are considered garages, and there's actually thousands of people living there. That's why we've repeatedly asked the State Property Fund to provide the clarification and status of all these hostels so that people would eventually become legitimate owners of their homes. Now in the central city of Kirovgrad there are about a hundred people, they've blocked the Kyiv-Kyrovgrad-Mikolai route to stay there because their police are constantly trying to expel them from mercury poisoning. Personally, I was unable to vote in favour of this law because it was at this time that I was protecting the people of Poznaki from the builders who were trying to destroy the lake in Kiev, but I wrote a statement to have my voice counted because I knew this problem, and the whole Radical Party has always supported it, and our position that the residents of the hostels have the right to theirs. to our own home, and we have to ensure this right so that they can privatize and use their own housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Andrew Illenko takes the floor. And then Alexei Ryabchin gives the word to the national MP from Fatherland to Mr. Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u91	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear fellow Ukrainians who can hear us! I would like to dedicate this talk to the situation in Kiev. In the last few days, there have been a series of events that resemble the darkest times of the late Yanukovic -- a repeated beating by private armies of the "tins" of the people near Kača Lake in the Darnitsky region, protesting against the barbaric total forgetfulness that destroys the lake and destroys the ecosystem. Yesterday there was a situation in the Kyiv City Council, when again, the private army of aunts, misunderstood people, unestablished, without any documents, without any recognition, in military, non-pseudian form, in armoured vests, with special means, with cold weapons. First they're organized on the KievPastrasse buses and they're being taken to a protected controlled parking lot near Kievrada and then they're going into Kiyevrada territory and they're starting to control the release of people from the premises. On the simple question of the deputies of Kyivrada from Freedom: "Who are you? What are you doing here?" The answer is mattresses, the answer is a fight, accentuated punches, actually, trying to get your hands on anything, to get some of the deputies' buses on it. Yesterday there was a Chiyevrada hospitalized MP from Liberty, the head of the Kyivrada Commission on Health, deputy of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Calling of Oleg Heleway, who is already a young man, and our other deputies were injured. The law enforcement agencies did not act, nor did they react. Then, as a result of the main organizers, who, by the way, aren't the only ones who didn't hide their faces among the aunts, they weren't detained. As a result, some formal activity was carried out in the Paradise. All these gunmen, the fighters, were released. Well, the situation, of course, is very, very critical. We're going to be looking for real investigation. I am convinced that the Kyiv City Council will not be able to work properly until the charges in this situation have been punished, and this has finally to stop. Because, you know, back in the days of Yanukovitch, boys in sports pants with three stripes, now it's some kind of organized private army, but the methods, style and cynicism they carry out, they're absolutely identical. I urge the leadership of the law enforcement agencies to give this serious attention, to understand and to put an end to such shameful situations in our capital city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u92	Thank you. Igor Lucenko, representative of Fatherland, is invited to the floor by Mr. Ryabchin. And prepare for the Lord of the People's Deputies of Kryvoshé.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u93	Dear friends, as a Kiev MP, I cannot help but keep quiet about what happened in the capital of Ukraine this week. In the capital of Ukraine this week there was simply a deboss of aunts, organized gangs in camouflage and without, accompanied by the National Police and alone. Of course, I don't want to mention the Kiev authorities, who also took part in the organization of this disgraceful festival, but I would like to focus on the fact that all of this was in the absence of law enforcement in the city. We are now following closely the reform that is taking place in the police force. We see these new young guys who went to the police station. I'm sure most of them came here to really fight crime to serve their country. What's happening to them now? They are actually being used as a screen to hide the absence of real reforms in law enforcement. Now the new police, the police officers are driving through Kiev, and we can see how their material base is melting right in front of their eyes. The cars are breaking down -- no one repairs them, no form disappears, they're not taught that way, it's necessary, because they've blinded the new police force -- and let's go to the front, like in Stalin, right in the front, on the street, without giving enough legal, technical, fire, tactical training. And now it's going to lead to sad consequences. But that's not even the problem. The problem is that, really, aside from the National Patrol Department's windshield, the National Police still have nothing, despite the test, despite all the other things. Corruption continues, illegal businesses continue to crack down, joint raids with aunts against construction activists continue, and so on, the blind appointment of separatists continues. So I urge you to stop using the National Police for pierars, patrols for selfies, and finally to engage with the minister, police chiefs, Mrs. Zguladze, in the end, to organize a real police reform so that what is being done in Kiev will cease to exist and will not happen again. I call for the involvement of parliamentarians who are ready to work on real police reform. I'm sure that civil society is what to tell him about police reform. There's an expert partnership that, unfortunately, is not being heard right now. Let's re-load the police reform, let's all get together in one piece, and finally do our job: changing this "mental" system into real law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u94	Thank you. The representative of the People's Front is invited to the floor by Deputy Krivoshea, who was given the floor by Deputy Edakov. And prepare for Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u95	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam Leader. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, Ukraine. Today, I would like to raise a rather relevant question, perhaps relevant to a small number of Ukrainian citizens, but I think that in my speech all the residents of the ordinary district centers will see the problem, because I have faced this problem personally and a number of people in the Boguslav region of the Kyiv region in the last few months. What is the point of my speech? First. We all know that in the so-called Ministry of Health during the time of Minister Kvetashvili, who was unable to retire for nine months, it was decided that there was a need to shorten the beds in the district centers and in the ordinary district hospitals. Thus, in the Boguslav region, officials felt that the head of the administration, the Chief of Health and a number of district council deputies had decided to reduce a certain number of beds, but did not think about where they would shorten them. And so they decided, in effect, to eliminate the hospital in the village of Medwin, which would eventually become a territorial community. So today I would like to focus on the leadership of the region, the district of Boguslav, the district chief physician, the head of the administration, the head of the district council, that, dear friends, do not make shameful decisions or reduce the unfortunate 10 beds in a village that serves almost 10,000 villagers around this village and makes it easier for them to access the necessary medical services. That's the first one. The other one. At the same time, Mr. Homenko and the head of the district council, Mr. Zamirailo, regardless of what they represent, they represent the serious political forces that represent both in the area of leadership and in the district council and in the district council, decided to continue to continue the derby and to continue the unconditional appointment of leaders for appropriate appointments in the field of medicine. Thus, at the head of the primary health care center, they decided to assign dental equipment or something else. At the same time, people who have direct work experience who understand what primary medicine is and know how to work are even prevented from participating in a competition. It's a disgraceful decision. And so if today it's in my Boguslav region, where I come from, or in other areas that do that. They will not groan and stop, so believe me, people will come to you and make the right decision for you. And as district deputies, the district heads of the administration actually take you out of these administrations. Now I'd like to look at the fact of the decision, I'd like to address the head, the new head of the district administration. I would like to focus on those heads of administration, primarily in the Boguslav region and in the districts. Head of the district council, because his representative is the district manager in the district district of Boguslav. Make the right decisions and influence your immediate subjects because you cannot make decisions that violate your interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u96	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I want all of us to speak. Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block, is invited to attend and to prepare for Mr. Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u97	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm going to go back to the health issue, because in a year and a half of the promised reforms of good, lecture material from the history minister who led this department, we didn't move forward at all. What's more, today, when they say that these ministries had to be pushed to the neck, I'm definitely against it. They don't need to be pushed to the neck, they need to be drawn to criminal responsibility, and there's a reason. Why do we have changes and reforms in the health system? The whole point is, we have the medicine that it is. But it is also so, for the reason that there is no current legislation that should be in the health system. If we knew that all the legislation, that all the regulations and orders of the Ministry are being implemented, we'd have some kind of site that we could push away and say where something needs to be worked out. Unfortunately, in the ruins of failure to implement an existing legal framework, we're trying to do something. On the one hand, I was delighted to learn that for the first time in exactly a year and a half, we were dealing with health problems. Two laws have been passed, a four-month parliamentary hearing order, incomprehensible why, where the ministry's work is considered unsatisfactory, under the dress. But on the other hand, I was concerned. We have more than 20 drafts on the committee, taking into account the total paralysis of work at the Ministry of Health. But they're not systemic, they're good, but they're not systemic. And what we voted for in the Transplant Law, we solved some small segment of the problems that are now in health care. Why is this so? I stress that, as long as the National Health System reform programme is not developed and approved, we will be sporadically adopting laws and it is important that they do not fully balance the current system in order to help them change. There is no such system, because everyone understands that if reform goes on, there will be a reduction. If there's a shortcut, you have to understand, something has to be done with medical education. There are a lot of medical schools today, people are learning from government funds, and they have to do to the state what the state has put in them. There is a need to reduce the volume of the training set, to work out a system of credits for learning, and then each graduate will have the right to choose. This will also require adjustments to the staffing of the medical institutes themselves. Work all ahead. And I think that as long as we don't establish this concept here, we don't have to expect change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will have extra time, so all those who sign up and present in the hall will be able to perform today. I invite you to speak to Mr. Borislav Berezu and to prepare for Mr. Ribaku's "Peter Prashenko Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u99	Borislav Bereza, Party of Determined Citizens. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians and those who have not come to the session hall today. I'm addressing all of you. There was a very shameful situation in Kiev yesterday. When aunts, together with law enforcement, who call themselves "police," but were essentially militias or mints, which the people call them, were really protecting those who paid, not the law. Yesterday we saw a woman who was armed, beating up people who were doing whatever they wanted to do, and the police, the new police, who were made of retested mints, didn't do anything at all. No, she did one thing. She was an activist, kept them, and drove them to the liquor store. I don't understand it, and I'm asking Mrs. Decanoidze to consider it my MP's request to find out how it might be. Why the police and.. I say again, it's the police, it's not the police. And the aunts worked together as it was on the field when the aunt and the militia were killing people. Why we are together, again we see law enforcement working together and people armed with anything, but not marked, nothing at all but uniforms. I don't understand how that could be in Ukraine if we say that Ukraine is a state of law. I don't understand how it can be that the newly created police, in general, ignore the social perception that the police are always on the side of the law, on the side of the law. I have another question for Mrs. Decanoidze. Why do these aunts get picked up every time on the buses of Kyivpastrasse? Why are they protected from society every time? Why did the police tell her each time that she received such an order? Who gave this command? And please, where are we going? I can tell you that this situation happened because after the dignity revolution, no auntie was punished. If we continue to endure this, no one will. Well, we're never gonna see anything change. Moreover, on one occasion someone will decide against the power shown by his aunts to use weapons and then no one will know what this will lead to. Once again, I ask Mrs. Decanoidze and Mr. Minister to save the newly created police and not let her turn into mints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the representative of the Ivan Rybak "Block of Peter Prashenko" and to prepare Jehora Sobolev of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u101	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you all to Earth Day. Because today in New York, the headquarters of the United Nations is having a very serious event that will have consequences for all mankind in the coming years. This is the signing of the Paris Agreement, which envisions the refusal of all signatory states in the prospect of using fossil fuels and the full transition of all the economies of the world, the progressive economies of the world to alternative sources of energy. It is also a pleasure that today, on Earth Day, a forum dedicated to 30-year-old events in Chernobyl began its work. Ukraine was not alone in this tragedy, but it was a tragedy that swept all over Europe. I would also like to return the question on occasion before the Passover celebrations to greet everyone and invite everyone to the Bukovina. Invite everyone to the country where our Ukrainian artists were born: John Mikolaychuk, Nazarius Jaremchuk and many others. Sadly, though, it is necessary to build roads to get to Bukovina. So, dear colleagues, let's work on developing our tourist potential to develop our Carpathian region, which can in the future give Ukraine money that's crazy. I'd like to invite everyone to Visitorship, Travelling, Watchtower, Kitzmanschina. There are friendly people there who will always be happy to meet you and welcome you. Once again, I welcome everyone to the upcoming Easter celebrations. May God give everyone health, patience, strength, and well - being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. And especially because you have really drawn our attention to the fact that today is an environmental day, and really to the attention of all Ukrainians, how important it is for us to live in harmony with nature. I invite the representative of Self-Help, Egor Sobolev, to whom his colleague Mrs. Romanov gave the floor. And prepare, please, for the Tree Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u103	I think this week is one of the most important events that's happened, is the public arrest of the new Office of the Henprosecutors, which was created specifically for repression, by humans. Tuesday’s people came under Parliament to support the Law on the Election of an Independent Attorney General. They didn't see what they were hearing, they didn't see in Parliament the will to elect this Henprocuror, they calmly moved into a beautiful building built in the center of Kiev, where a new office of the Attorney General was created, which was immediately working against David Sacrarelidze, against Vitaly Kaska, against those people who arrested the "diamond prosecutors" and the Anti-Corruption Centre, one of the best public organizations that really resisted corruption. Very quickly, in military terms, there were many volunteers, all the entrances, the exits of the three floors of this house were under control. None of the guards suffered or resisted. With the prosecutors inside, a polite preventive talk was held that society would not be subjected to reprisals against people who stood up for its values, its freedoms, its ideals. Prosecutors were given time to show that they understood the results of the interview. After that, people left in peace. I think it is a solution that shows everyone how to solve problems that are not solved in our country. I think this is the way out for the President of Ukraine and for all the high-ranking people. I think it's a great important warning for all the prosecutors, for all the judges. Important, wonderful, peaceful, but perhaps one of the last warnings they received. I think it's an option for us as a parliament, with such support, having such citizens with such powers in the state. We certainly have the opportunity to make all the necessary decisions and to form this Ukraine, for which there is a war of independence for which there is a European Union. One of those laws that we insist on, which, in fact, these people came first to support under the Supreme Council, is the Law on the Election of the New Henprosecutor through the Independent Commission Competition. In today's conditions, it's a great opportunity for both Parliament and the President and for all the leaders of the state to listen to people and put the Attorney General in charge, who will start to create justice and start to put faith in the state, and start to uphold the law and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. To that end, we invite Yuri Derevyanko, who is given the floor by Deputy Jurik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u105	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Honorable MPs, the Ukrainians, are now hearing the case of Mayor Alexi Momota, who has been unjustifiably accused of receiving a huge bribe. I now claim that this is a case fabricated, falsified, ordered by those groundmen, as well as by the corrupt prosecutors and the law enforcement agencies who are doing it with them. The Will Party has been calling for more than a week for this case to be transferred to the NABU under the Criminal Procedure Code, and it is also required by the Deputy of the City Council, the District High Town Council, who, at their successive sessions, passed the relevant decisions and referred to the Attorney General's Office. Last week, the Attorney General’s Office began to intimidate all the deputies, activists, district council deputies, representatives of the communities who intended to listen, including the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, at the district council session, and began to be intimidated by the imprisonment of four years of prison if they seemed to interfere with the investigation of such a criminal case. I'm going to point out the facts that are now well known, the fact that there's no bribe to the city head, is that there's no crime, no funds, no documents. It's the absence in the city's head at all of the official powers of any to solve the issue for which he allegedly could have gotten such a bribe. During the days, the Security Service admitted that the photos and videos they broadcast to the media had no mayors of the city and that the money had not been there, and they removed all such materials from their official website of the Security Service. Why did Momot try to get out of office? Very simple: As a result of ten percent of the inventory carried out in the city of Vishgrad, six acres [6 ha] of land is returned. Would it please those who control them? Of course, it couldn't. We suspect that there may be companies involved in the case of Momot, whose lands the city authorities have returned to the property of the community. What are these companies? Some of the firms have a relationship through their wife, through their uncle to KMDA Director of Land Resources Alexi Polishchuk. Another company called TOV "Tobi," and where is Anatoly Shaloput, who is one of the co-founders of TOV "Invest," and this company is famous for building a multi-story house in Marien Park, here, not far from us, near the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the factions! We've asked everyone to put forward candidates for the interim commission of inquiry so that we can control how law enforcement investigates this criminal case. And we think there could be any other measure at the mayor's place, any person who started reforming and started to take ownership of the land. We ask the Attorney General not to intimidate the public, activists, MPs, but to refer the matter to the National Anti-Corruption Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. I remind my colleagues that our morning session is until 2:00 p.m., and the National Deputy Ednak is handing the word to Deputy Marchenk. I'd like to speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u107	Good day, fellow workers, good day, distinguished Ukrainians, good day, Chernobyls, liquidators, disabled people! Alexander Marchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 90th Election District of the Bila Church. I'm not going to pay any attention to this business week that's been going on, what the government is doing. But I want to express my point of view that. That's what a coherent functioning government is. On December 20, 2014, the government of Yatsenuk, Jaresko, eliminated any guarantees given by the Ukrainian State, tax payers to the black bullies. I, along with the white churchmen, prepared a bill (No. 2093) in which we were supposed to beat the President's veto yesterday and restore the little crumbs of the social guarantees that we were supposed to get. Why did the city of the white church take an active part? Why were Chernobyl organizations cooperating? Why did the committee respond? According to the White Church, there are now more than 4,000 liquidators living in the city of the Bila Church, which is a district. We've lost over a thousand. Today, we have 1.5 thousand people with kidney disease. Moreover, the White Church is not sad to say, but it has the highest priority for oncosa. And when the initiative was launched, and the main legislators were to get the Chernobyls back social guarantees such as health care and treatment, so that the children of the dead, the children of the disabled, have state aid so that the children who are studying in the educational institutions have little support -- food in the educational institutions, and it was important that they be exempt from taxes. Is that a lot? No, even the former Minister of Social Policy agreed. There was a sum of 500 million dollars for this program. But I'm addressing Vladimir Borisovich Prime Minister today, I'm addressing, honourable colleagues, all of you, the Chernobyl organizations are coming together and I'm reminding you that the attack on Ukrainian social rights began with the government of Azarov in 2011, so we'll be further with you who want to defend rights and should put an end to anti-Social, anti-Ukrainian politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. The National Deputy Chicken of the “Block of Peter Dustenka” conveys the word to Igor Solovia. Please. And get ready. Yuri. Excuse me, Mr. Yuri. And then get ready for Sporish College.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u109	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the need for the speedy adoption of the 3251 bill in the Parliamentary Walls, which reduces the substantial cost of sweeping ex-cars from abroad and which significantly reduces the cost of excise duty when importing cars from abroad. I mean, this bill concerns millions of Ukrainians. This bill offers equal opportunities for Ukrainian citizens to buy both a new and a used car. Because today we have a situation where excise duty and duty on new cars that are imported into Ukraine is 10 times lower than excise duty and customs on cars that are imported and used by countries of the European Union. And I want to point out that it's very hard to read in the first reading, this bill was going on in the walls of Parliament. Very quick was the number of votes that allowed him to accept in the first reading: 226. And unfortunately, today I'm starting to hear in Parliament's walls all sorts of things that are meant to delay this bill's consideration, all sorts of things that have to do with the amendments that it's supposed to lower this rate and excise -- it's going to hit the economy or the budget of Ukraine very significantly. Dear colleagues, this does not withstand any criticism, since this market, which has been monopolized in many recent decades, needs to be opened. The amount of money that comes from the first registration of cars to the budgets of all levels is higher than the amount that we receive today when we import new cars that are imported into our country. And that's why I want to go to the leadership of the Ukrainian Parliament, to the profile committee: in the shortest possible terms, consider this bill on the committee and put one of the priorities in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall during the next plenary week. I am convinced that this law, which opens up the possibility for millions of Ukrainians to buy cars at a weighted price, not to pay that tax and excise duty, will seriously help many Ukrainians to upgrade their car park. And given that our plenary session is today on the eve of Easter, I want to address every Ukrainian with a greeting, to wish every peace, joy, good, and God bless our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. People's MP Musak gives the word to a fellow Sporish of "Peter Prashenko's Block." And prepare for the national MP Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u111	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin. I also want to join the previous speaker and welcome all my voters to Easter. I think that God will be with us, and I think that the Supreme Council will do everything possible to make it better for you, my constituents, for all of Ukraine, to live. And I would also like to welcome you with this holiday. But today we heard a report from the government at the beginning of our session, and there were many questions about the date, but unfortunately there was not enough time. I couldn't ask a question and one of the questions I'd like to ask you today is again from this rostrum, it's about roads. These are the roads that have really been spoken for by many today. And I want to say in one of my ways, this is the death of limestone, which is about 10,000 of my electorates, the railroad workers. So, you know, back in the day, if maybe the older national MPs remember, there were Strepsel and Tarapunka, these Soviet comics, and they were still criticizing that road at a time when there was no criticism. And that same road today we know a wonderfully good writer, Oleg Blackygus, who is about to be the hero of Ukraine, who wrote a rather popular book called "The Aristocrat of limestone," where he also criticized these roads on limestone. And today, once again, the same thing, near a mile [km] of roads, where it's not possible to go through, can't even go through. I think today, I'd like to ask my question for another "Stolen" of Winnitzkin. I think the Ministry of Infrastructure will pay attention anyway. Because spring has come, and we all well understand that without roads today people are not what they want, but they do not want to live. Because, first of all, if there's no roads, there's no normal infrastructure, so there's no mood for everything. And I would also like to ask you a question to the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't think I should start a new construction without finishing the old one. I realize that if we were to start a new building, we might be able to clean up some corresponding funds. But in my district of Sapijanka, the village of Sharovsky district, the gas remained 10 percent. Home girls, school is 5 percent until construction is completed. Masurovka, the Cherniewice region, is 10 percent to complete the construction of the gas pipeline. Tomaszewski district, Jalanec, Nerebovka – 5-10 percent of the money is needed to complete the construction. So I'd very much like to finish those constructions that have 5-10 minutes left, 5-10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u112	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u113	5-10 percent, then start something new. I think that's what we should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-22-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor. And as I was informed by our distinguished colleague, Mr. Bezbach, the issue he wanted to raise in his speech was already raised by other colleagues during the performances. And as far as I can tell, the entire list of colleagues who are speaking for today has been exhausted, and they've been listed under the heading "Victane" for the performances. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the national deputies who have faithfully worked on today’s meeting of the Supreme Council. And let me remind you, dear colleagues, that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. Please visit your districts, inform the media, and, above all, our voters. And also to remind you that the week from May 4th to May 6th, National MPs work in committees, factions and groups. Likewise, we ask that we be conscientious about these responsibilities. The next meeting of the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday 10 May at 10 a.m. and the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday 10 May at 16 p.m. And I want to emphasize that we're going to have two sessions in May starting on May 10th. And I hope that the Supreme Council will demonstrate greater productivity, responsibility and effectiveness in these two weeks. Many of the colleagues who spoke today from this high rostrum mentioned that this was our last meeting before the festivals. Let us join in all the words our colleagues have observed and wish all the Ukrainians a truly happy, generous world and all of us more wisdom in the name of serving Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues.
