ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please, I'll wait. So, dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I urge the national deputies to prepare for registration. Please register. Please register, colleagues. [[10:06:49]] 349 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today's birthday to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov. [[Applause]] Also, honourable colleagues, I would like to say that when we work in the Ukrainian Parliament, we should remember that we are Parliament of a warring country. And while we're making decisions and making decisions, there's fighting on the front day after day. And these days, there was another attack by Russian invaders at the position of Ukrainian troops. Ukrainian military forces were able to repel the attack and win the World War II. But in the course of battle, our brothers died, our soldiers died on the front. And, dear fellows, I ask you all to honor the moment of silence the memory of the dead Ukrainian heroes who died fighting for Ukraine. Please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Everlasting memory of heroes. And victory for our warriors. Colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized members of the MPs and groups. I want to remind you of two things, colleagues. First, these are statements from factions and groups. And secondly, I forcely ask all factions to sign up for the performance so that I don't have to decide for myself who's behind it. I very much ask all factions to record the performance so that the "Council" system can determine the sequence of performances itself. Do you have a deal, colleagues? So, dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to record a statement from the MP factions, and I'm asking you to register all the political factions. Please. Dear colleagues, not all factions have recorded. Fatherland, are you going to be involved in the discussion? You just didn't make it, did you? Let's do it again. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording of the performance, and I'm going to do the recording again. Colleagues, I'm asking all political factions and groups who are willing to take part in this discussion to record a speech. Colleagues, please don't all sign up, I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups. Thank you. All the political parties have signed up, and we're moving on to the performances. The first is given the word from the Radical Party of Láška Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, today millions of Ukrainians who keep their funds in Private Bank are most concerned about whether their funds are guaranteed, whether they are able to receive them, or whether these funds will be saved. Because a lot of people put the last savings, wages, pensions, utility bills on drugs, and today they're worried. The situation, which is with Private Bank, basically shows the situation on the country's banking system. Not only are his former owners responsible for the situation with PrivatBank, but primarily the authorities, the leadership of the National Bank, the government and the head, and the President of Ukraine, who, despite our repeated demands, has not yet submitted to Parliament for release from office as head of the National Bank of Valeria Hontareva. At the same time, I would like to address the Ukrainians. The invasion of Private Bank, its siege, is the collapse of the entire banking system. So the most important thing in this situation is not to panic, but the most important thing is peace. And I recommend that we don't all run in panic, head to Private Bank, taking our money. Because he can take one, two or three. If the Private Bank collapses, tens of millions of Ukrainians will be affected. So the Radical Party will do everything in its power, our political power, to protect the interests of the 20 million Ukrainians who keep their money in the Private Bank. Because by protecting Ukrainians, protecting the banking system, we protect the stability of the bracelet and the ability of Ukrainians not to panic, and the main thing is not to collapse. But at the same time, I'm convinced that this story needs to be drawn. First, we think there should not be just an audit of the National Bank of Private Bank, which is currently running the Nutzbank, but there should be an international audit. So that, not the Horn and Hoof offices, do this audit, but the international organizations. The other one. I have a question, and the National Bank, which is able to monitor an online situation every day in any bank, they didn't see a 150 billion dollar hole? Did it come up in one moment? What did the National Bank do to save the situation from disaster? The National Bank did nothing, but it was an accomplice to this crime and has to be responsible. That's why we demand that the head of the National Bank resign again and bring her to criminal responsibility for banking market corruption. Well, most of all. For our party, for the Radical Party, the most important thing is Ukraine. Not politics, not ratings, but Ukraine and Ukraine. And all that depends on us will be done to protect Ukraine and the Ukrainians and to hold those who rob them accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr is from Fatherland. He's handing over Sergei Soboljevo. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u4	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, these few weeks, have been weeks when nearly three million of our fellow citizens have had the opportunity to elect representatives to the united communities, both leaders and deputies at local levels. Of the nearly 3,000 100 local deputies elected, only half of them moved away from the parties, all the others went out on their own. We want to announce that we just got the next results from the parallel vote. But before that. Unfortunately, once again, according to the public activists of the Resistance, we found that there was no bribe in places, administrative pressure, intimidation. But despite this, half of the MPs who were elected on party lists actually got the following results. The Fatherland party received 520 seats out of 1571 from the party. That's almost 33 percent of the votes. In second place, 242 deputies, which is 15.4 percent of the vote, received the Peter Dusty Block. Everyone else is far behind. Head to head, which is also very important. 10 heads, first of all, the Fatherland Party and almost 6 heads are those who, according to previous parallel calculations, represent the Peter Prashenko Block. We are very grateful to all, the millions of citizens who have taken an active part in this election, for the support of our policies that we have spent all these years. And I think this is an unnecessary confirmation of someone supported by Ukrainian citizens. But I am now convinced that hundreds of our deputies, along with other non-party MPs, who have become members of the united communities, will do their best to ensure that no school, no FAP, has a culture that has been closed down but that funding has been found to support it. The second is equally important. What happened to Private Bank and a dozen other banks where Gontarova as head of the National Bank was covering, in fact, everything that was going on behind the National Bank tapes is too much to confirm its responsibility, and its resignation is a need for an immediate vote in the session room. And the last. We're talking to our colleagues who have passed a bill on the possibility of selling land: call it off, you're doing bad for Ukraine! And when we go to Parliament, we demand that we continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u6	We demand a five-year moratorium on the purchase and sale of land for the purpose of adopting all necessary precautionary measures so that in no way does our country turn into a country that trades in land, not in agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Self-Help Association, Oleg Berezuk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u8	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! The oligarchy regime prepares for its next reproduction, preparing to destroy the Ukrainian institutional state. Political corruption is the basis for this play. What do we see? The head of the CEC is presumptuously acting as a person who is unpunished in this state. And we observe this, we should immediately vote on the CLTC's leadership and the restoration of justice in this country -- the beginning of the fight against political corruption directly. We have to vote on the draft electoral bill to Parliament on a proportional basis for open lists. This political corrupt authority of the oligarchs is destroying this country, there is a full-scale war going on, killing boys every day, and our European partners, in paws, say, "No harm, prepare for the Donbassa elections." How? Under guns, cannons, and tanks? With the hostages of the Ukrainian soldiers? We must adopt the Law on Occupied Territories and recognize it by war at last. That's not fair, the oligarchy regime is preparing to play, collecting money. Yeah, a nationalized bank is good, it's human stability and the stability of the financial system. One hundred and fifty billion dollars from the national budget is at what cost? Who are the gardeners, the cost of schools, the cost of roads? To some local communities, this budget takes away practically everything we've given you and me in the last two years. Fuel excises are just an incredible discussion, there's no end. Translating the responsibility for energy and material costs of schools and medical facilities simply extorts local budgets. Translation for benefits: The State provides benefits, and the benefits must be paid by those who do not have the money to pay. Local budgets are a nation's robbery and preparations to make local authorities dependent on the political oligarhat that is now in power in this country. So the week is very difficult. This is a week where you and I have to protect the city's communities and protect the state budget from the robbery, from the political corruption that governs this state today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u9	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group, Litvin Volodymir Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u10	Vladimir Litwin, People's Party. Dear colleagues, in his time Stalin taught that to be able to manage, we need to know the masses; and to know the masses, we need to go to the masses. True, he did not do it himself. Our Ukrainian reformers, the Ukrainian authorities, have adopted this thesis of Stalin very well: without knowing what people are living on, they are fiercely and festively convinced that they know what to do. They know everything, only, I'll say it roughly, but right: they know everything, and they don't ask for pots, and they throw people right on their heads. Those laws that have been passed recently are genocide laws. I refer to them as Law 5130. Nice cover: they raised the minimum wage to 3,000, but, in fact, all of the State’s social obligations were eliminated: either they were thrown into the local budget, or they would be executed in part, depending on what opportunities are directly available in the Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers. It's a genocidal law. And in a group of black Mondays related to Private Bank, people finally thought it was bad, but it's going to get worse. And they talk about it in a mass way: let's say it's bad yesterday than it's a new life today. And, I think, before the adoption of the budget, dear colleagues, I am addressing you! You answer people's questions, and today you're going to take it for 1,600 dollars to survive. How can people survive in the countryside? Today the village is an internal colony, it's a reservation. People are just dying out, and this function -- the extinction of people -- is being successfully carried out by the Ministry of Health. We have a strange country -- we love the dead. And the last. It's about the election. People say that there has never been such a pressure. In the country, new facilities have been created, which are considered by the state to be their own. They were in the ruling party yesterday, they're back in the right party, and they're taking power in places, and they're going to be totally running the territorial communities. The principle is, "Stand, but close!".. Close to power. That's not supposed to happen! Dear colleagues, let us consider what decisions we make when we hide them from the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u11	From the "Occupy Block" Paul gives the word "Odkulu" for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The last sessional week of this year began. However, the country's main issues were not addressed this year, and unfortunately this week too. These are the issues of lowering public tariffs, the creation of new jobs, industrial support, the end of war. These bills are simply not tabled in the Hall, despite the fact that the Opposition Block introduced an anti-crisis package this year and last year, all these bills are in our Parliament today. The authorities want this week, and perhaps even today, to adopt the Budget Act 2017. The directorship of this spectacle is understandable – at the end of the year, to “strip” this budget, which will make Ukraine a poor police country in large measure. After that, this power wants to break into vacations so as not to look people in the eye and answer awkward questions. There will be many such questions. Even the positive that would appear to be included in this budget is to raise the minimum wage to 3,000, 200 bracelets, without real industrial support, without creating incentives for small and medium-sized businesses, i.e. without tax cancellation, and with all social standards being set aside from minimum wage, it will only create inflation and make people even more impoverished. In the draft State budget, social benefits for pensioners, for the disabled, for the poor are in fact much lower than the subsistence minimum and an increase of only 10 per cent in pensions with inflation that is actually playing out will make our pensioners even more and more impoverished. The grant bill laid down 47 billion grevens on a specific basis, which required 102 billion dollars, and there were public tariffs that could not be paid by 80 per cent of Ukrainians. The authorities continue to kill the economy, and nothing is put in place to support the real sector to create new jobs. Moreover, our agrarians will have another 15 billion bracelets, such an impression that there is a desire to destroy agriculture and then sell our land, given that the law is already in Parliament for no price. By targeting people, you want to increase the cost of the President and Parliament's maintenance -- 3 billion -- that's plus 54 percent by last year, the Attorney General's Office -- 22 billion, the fiscal service -- 6 billion. Not only in Ukraine, but in Europe. You're building a police official state, and it's not just the Ukrainians, it's the current government that's showing the red card already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u13	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u14	Not only the people of Ukraine but also the European partners, and visa-freeness, are best confirmed. “The opposition bloc” will not vote in favour of this budget “genocide”. During the discussion, we will insist on adjustments: minimum wage of 4.5 thousand, minimum pension of 3.5 thousand and double reduction of municipal tariffs. In discussing the bill, we will fight for every article, we will always be on the side of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u15	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u16	Congratulations, colleagues. "We want to live -- our neighbors want to see us dead. That doesn't leave much room for compromise." Those words in hard for his country were spoken by the fourth Prime Minister of Israel, Golde Meir, who, by the way, was from Ukraine. I am sure that these words speak very vividly about the situation in our country. Our boys died in the east of Ukraine on the last weekend. Russian terrorists are firing at our positions in the Lighthouse. This is the reality in which the country has been living for a third year. This is the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian Armed Forces against Russian invaders. But yesterday on the Conciliation Council and today we heard flu, very important problems, flu, VAT, benefits, and so forth. Yes, it's important, but the main thing for us, for the People's Front, is to increase the security of our country and national security. The state budget of the warring country must be focused primarily on the needs of the army. At least 5 percent of gross domestic product should be directed to defence industries, to the development of weapons, to the reinforcement of military security, to the raising of salaries for military personnel. This is what the government of Yatsenyuk has established and must continue with a valid government. We're not going away from this. The needs of the Ukrainian army in these times are more than anything. Where did your patriotism go, colleagues? Because the political forces that were elected to Parliament after Maidan, who swore to the people to pay back the money that Yanukovich had stolen, did not vote in favour of their return through the special confiscation regime. Five times Parliament has broken the law, but the People's Front will be on its own: The law on special confiscation must be adopted, the money stolen must be returned to the budget, the money Januković must work for the defence complex, must go to social benefits. And today our colleagues have registered a bill that predicts that a half billion dollars, which the Yatsenuk government has arrested more than two years ago, will be returned to the budget and will immediately be distributed: 50 percent for defence and national security and 50 percent for raising social standards. We're addressing you, Mr. Head, to put this bill into the agenda today, to give an order to the committee to consider tomorrow on the committee and to put it to a vote on Thursday. And publish lists of those MPs who don't vote. In order for the Ukrainians to know the people who want to return the money to Yanukovitch’s gang and to lie openly to the people. Next. The People's Front requires the NAB to conduct an open and public investigation into the facts published by Deputy Oneshchenk. We don't accept and never agree with any primitive explanation of the inability to carry out an effective investigation. Covering, covering, opening. This is the slang of a water channel worker, not the head of a body to combat corruption in the higher echelons of power. The charges against Yatzenuk proved to be a worthless invention, artificially distributed for millions of dollars. THE following Nabo must not go far. There's a "young chief of the common people" sitting in this room. Let him tell you where he got the money for his dirty campaign, including under the windows of the Cabinet. I don't think he's got anything to hide, is he? Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u18	And finally, I'll tell those who are about to launch a dirty campaign against Minister Arsen Avakov and Speaker Andrew Parubius. That's what I'm telling you. You're looking at another fiasco to spend millions of dollars, but your affair is also pretty cool. Don't bring forth the destroyers, for you yourselves will suffer. At least 70 deputies in this room heard me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich of the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u20	Oleg Kulinich, MP's Rebirth Party. Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Dear voters! This week we have a second reading of the draft state budget for the following year. And it's very important that he's really balanced. After this document, the country will live in 2017. I'd like to hear a few adages that bother citizens about this. The most important question is pay. It's a good thing we picked up at least 3,200 dollars. But there is a problem with an active tariff network. It cannot be that a technical worker will receive a salary at the level of a doctor or a teacher. This does not mean that the wages of technical workers should not increase. But it is vital that wages and qualified personnel increase in proportion. If you have raised the minimum, you should not forget your pensions. They need to be raised, not by 10 percent, but gradually to a minimum of living. Another very important problem is the support of local budgets. It is very important to vote in second reading on Bill 3038, which transmits part of the rent from oil and gas production to the scene. This is an extremely important bill that awaits local self - government. It is particularly important for the Poltava and Kharkiv regions, where oil and gas production is the largest in our country. It stands in order today, and it is vital that we vote it. A few words about supporting the APC. Since 2017, it has been proposed to abolish the special taxation regime for agrarians at all. Instead, 5.5 billion dollars of donations are being offered for animal production, for gardening, for domestic manufacturing, and for other purposes. And it's very important that this grant actually gets to whoever needs it most -- small and medium-sized farms. Because they are affected by the fact that the special regime has been abolished. Planting is also vital. There's no way you can index the land's regulatory valuation, because it's going to cause the producers to go dark at all and not pay taxes to the local budgets if we keep loading them. Well, there's another important question that I wanted to raise. We will have parliamentary hearings tomorrow on the circulation of agricultural land. And I would very much like them to actually go through constructively, we've heard a qualified and professional opinion and an expert environment, both science and basic, of landowners and farmers. And really these hearings have become a playground for road maps in land legislation. And by no means did the individual politicians become the next pierre of individual politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u21	Thank you. And from the Peter Dust Block, Berezenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! This plenary week is very important to us. In the new year, we have to come up with a new budget for 2017 and do everything we can to get it approved as soon as possible. The budget is a very important initiative of the President, the government, and the majority. These include wage increases and reinforced social guarantees. It is equally important that this budget should have resources for local communities to continue the reform of decentralization. This is a systemic reform that makes the State transfer financial resources to places of authority, and above all, to implement these powers. Indeed, on December 18 and 11, elections took place in united territorial communities, which clearly demonstrated great support for local decentralization reform. The reform initiated by the President of Ukraine and by the legislature is provided by the Supreme Council. In elections to the united territorial communities, people came to the district more actively than in the elections to the central authorities and to the local elections that took place in 2015. There were about 70 percent of all appearances. People showed great interest in these elections. This means that people have come to vote for specific things — schools, roads, hospitals. Believe me, for people this is far more than flaming speeches, sometimes false, even very often false from this rostrum and from the television. That's why the candidates have been promoted and, I stress, supported, actively supported by Peter Dustenk's "Solidarity" Block, they have won decisively. And I don't have to manipulate numbers because the numbers speak for themselves. On December 11 and 18, 120 heads of united territorial communities and 1,150 members of the councils of united territorial communities were elected from the “Solidarity of Solidarity” Block of Peter Poroshenko. I would stress that they are all members of our party. The December 11th and 18th elections took place in communities where almost 3 million Ukrainians live, and so the election trends represent the situation in Ukraine as a whole. Some feared that these elections would be the subject of political speculation. On the contrary, these elections have made it clear that decentralization unites Ukraine, people in the east, and in the West are willing to vote for real things that are actually being implemented through self - government. For example, in the Zitomirsk, Mikolai, Dnipropetrovsk areas, no opposition was elected head of the OTG. And this is a real estimate of populism that was given by the Ukrainian voters in the December 11th and 18th elections. Another important result of these elections is that no rematch of the pro-Russian forces can be spoken of. We received convincing support in the west and the east, in the north and in the south. And to perfection. This budget provides about 9 billion dollars for projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u24	30 seconds. 9 billion dollars for regional development projects. These are the funds that local communities can use. And that's why the BPP faction calls on a colleague to Parliament, first and foremost, to pay attention to a package of bills relating to the budgetary provision of decentralization. This is what unites the country, which gives the Ukrainians the sense that they are masters in their community. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. Before I go into the agenda, I have two statements, one statement is a statement for a break from two factions of the People's Front, a radical party that is ready to be replaced by a speech. And I give the floor to Andrew Loz, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u26	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Yesterday at the great Christmas of Mirliki’s miracle worker, when we, in the Ukrainians, were invited to welcome the children, Tarasik Karpuk met without his father. Because his father is a Ukrainian patriot, an equal, my countryman, a political prisoner of the Qutum regime, UNSOVEC, he is now one of the prisoners of the Kremlin. You all know, my fellow citizens, that during Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, hundreds of our citizens were taken prisoner. Many of them have been tortured and tortured with extreme cruelty. Among the most feared torturers are the Ukrainian patriots Mikola Karpuk and Stanislav Klich, who are being held in the Grozny SSO, allegedly for participating in the Russian-Chechnya War on the side of the Republic of Iceland. Although neither Cliche nor Carpuk were there and this was proved. They are judged, tortured, abused, humiliated only because these people, I have the honour to know them, are patriots of their country. Since the entire civilized world now has the opportunity to read from the rights advocates about how these persistent and powerful people are being abused, they are being beaten, electrocuted, forced to use psychotropic drugs, intimidated, and blackmailed by their families. Their relatives are here right now, please raise your head on the balcony with our colleague Igor Mosiyczuk: the mother of Stas Clich Tamara Ivanovna, the wife of Mikli Karpuk Olenko, and the son of Tarasik. These people, imagine how difficult they are right now, but they're fighting for Stas and fighting for Santa and fighting for Ukraine. I brought with me this address to the President of Ukraine, who signed over 100 national MPs. Among them are three heads of parliamentary factions: Oleg Lazko, Maxim Burbak and Igor Green. It was signed by more than 10 heads of parliamentary committees. I hope that many more deputies in this room will come along and continue to sign this address. In this statement, we appeal to the President as High Commander requesting immediate action on the exchange of Karpuk and Clich. We have many other Kremlin prisoners, but these are the most tortured, and they are subjected to extremely severe torture, in the Groznian SSO. They already got Clich sentenced to 20 years, Carpuk to 22. Clearly, no one can endure such torture. We propose to exchange Karpuk and Cliche for the detained 21 November coworkers of the BSS, the traitors Alexander Baranov and Maxim Odinsov, who, as Ukrainian military officers after the annexation of Crimea, joined the service of the enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u27	Thank you. And I want to make the second announcement that I have. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the parliamentary faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland" at its meeting on 16 December 2016 decided to exclude from the faction of the National Deputy of Ukraine Savchenko Nadija from activities incompatible with the programming principles and principles of party activities and factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to move on to the agenda of the day session. I want to remind you of yesterday's Conciliation Council and to point out that we've determined that the number one for us this week is budget-related issues. We also agreed that I would put to the vote the question of continuing our work until the order of the day session is exhausted. So after the first question of today's consideration, I'm going to make this proposal. And I'm counting on my colleagues to back me up, and we can continue our work so that we can get the whole list of bills that have been insisted on by members of the Conciliation Council, we have a chance to get through and have a chance to make a positive decision on them. So our logic is that, first of all, budget bills, but I think we have a chance today to consider the important issues of judicial reform on the High Council of Justice, and a number of other bills that we have stressed to the MPs, including during the speeches. And that's why I'm very confident that after the first question, when I make an offer to work out the order of the day session, this proposal will be supported in the hall. Colleagues, let's move on to the first question. The first question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (to increase the amount of subsidies to local budgets). And I, colleagues, would like to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner, my colleague. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please, I'm putting to the vote the motion for hearing 5502 on a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:45:30.]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u28	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to provide funding, to grant benefits and housing subsidies to the population to pay for electricity, natural gas, heat, water and water supply, housing, maintenance of houses and buildings and trailers, the export of household garbage and liquid impurities. I have been referred to by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine as the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs with letter No. 3109010222/34656 of 07.12.2016 on the possibility of taking a legislative initiative to increase subsidies from the State budget to provide benefits and housing subsidies to the population for housing and utilities. At present, the Treasury has registered financial liabilities, benefits and housing subsidies to the population to pay residential services for the sum of 44 billion 30 million 400,000 dollars. At the same time, subsidies from the State budget to local budgets. The local budget for this purpose is 40 billion 269 million dollars, which is not sufficient to offset the cost of benefits and housing subsidies to residents for housing and utility services. Bills by amending Appendices No. 1, No. 3, No. 7 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act "On Ukraine's 2016 budget" propose to increase by 4 billion 360 million dollars the expenditure of the Ministry of Finance on a subsidy from the state budget to local budgets, the granting of benefits and housing subsidies to the population at the expense of the expected increase to the same amount at the end of the current budget period of income from the state budget of Ukraine. In particular, from: part of the net income of state-owned unit companies and their associations that are excluded from the respective budget, and dividends, share income, shares (pai) of households with statutory capitals of government property of up to 2 billion 50 million dollars, to compulsory government pension insurance of 2 billion 310 million dollars. Please support the bill and adopt it as a basis and as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u29	Please give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, this is the calculation of our government that we are already correcting in the Chamber. And I'm asking you to support this bill. I am the author of this law, although I have opposed this form of subsidies since February 2015 and the IMF Memorandum in this part, because I think this leads Ukrainians to poverty when we have profits that accumulate on Naftogazi. But now I ask you to uphold this law, for the state has taken on these obligations, and we cannot deceive people. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u31	I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of National Deputy John Kulichenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs discussed Bill 5502 on December 7th. The bill is aimed at providing financial resources for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for housing and utility services and foresees an increase in the corresponding subsidy to local budgets by 4 billion and 360 million dollars. In order to balance the figures, the bill proposes to increase income for part of the net income of state enterprises and congregations for compulsory retirement insurance, which is estimated to be more than 11 months old. However, the bill does not provide financial and economic calculations to increase such income and expenditure. In addition, in accordance with article 52 of the Code of Budgets, changes in income may be made in the case of overstatements of more than 15 percent of the budget’s three - quarter revenues. And the findings of the Court of Auditors noted the risks of non-recovery of annual income. The Summary Indicators of Appendix 1 do not take into account the Space Sector Support Act of 17 November, and Appendix 3 makes errors in district budget codes that need to be corrected and clarified. In addition, it is possible for the Supreme Council to consider other bills on changes to the State budget, so if they are adopted for consideration, Bill 5502 will need to clarify the budgetary indicators in the bill with a view to harmonising the legal rules and the balance of the State budget. GNEU points to the need for an expert conclusion from the government. Minfin supports the bill and notes that implementation will be provided with financial resources. On the basis of the review and taking into account the need to address the issue before the end of the year, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council Bill 5502 to adopt, on a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the Committee's proposals made in a letter to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u33	Are you done? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u34	As appropriate, the committee, along with Minfin and the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical legal regulations in the drafting of the relevant law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Please record for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u36	Please give it to Krivenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u37	Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u38	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I will try again to explain to you the situation that has arisen. You know, unfortunately, there wasn't a proposal in February 2015 when we were calculating that the price of gas for the population was enough to raise the tariff by 45 percent, which included the purchase of one billion metres of cubic gas at import prices and which included a good investment program that allowed for increased production of own gas for the "Small Excavation". Sadly, this position was not heard at the time. Unfortunately, then both NCRE and the government went on to say that the gas of their own production was compared at prices with the gas of import price, and we were forced to then, like the Supreme Council, vote in favour of granting subsidies to our citizens. It's the wrong way. And then I didn't vote in favour of these changes to the State Budget Act, even though a lot of initiatives were taken by others, the army went through, which I proposed, but I couldn't vote for. Because we're making Ukrainian retainers, we already have two thirds of the households on subsidies. Look, more than half of the households now have more than half their income from unearned money. And we have to build self-sufficient people, support entrepreneurship, not support what is hurting our nation today. We don't see any effect on energy conservation, we don't see any effect, except Naftogaz got 30 billion revenue. But this scheme has been voted on, it has been adopted, and today the state is underfunded by the local authorities on these subsidies. And I strongly urge you to support this bill, because otherwise we will have a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u39	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Reka Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u40	Our faction offers to take the basis and, in general, to take account of the committee’s decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u41	Thank you. They were still from the Fatherland faction, please, People's Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we are looking at a very important Bill in Part "A," which is the responsibility of the government in that virtually all areas, and in all areas of Ukraine, there was already debt in November, a lack of subsidies. I can tell by the Dnipropetrov region, the official reference I have is more than 760 million dollars. This suggests that budgets that are voted on without consciousness on New Year's Eve are not counted or answered. I don't think it's possible when MPs make, not the government, bills that provide for such serious actions as to take money out of the income part of the budget from taxes, say overturn, and redirect it to closing subsidies. I raised our proposals for the 16th year budget, and we showed that the government that made this budget was hiding.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u43	Please give me 30 seconds to finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u44	I hid 3 percent of the gross domestic product that didn't count on the budget. That's 83.3 billion. Dear Government, this bill cannot be adopted in this way because it envisions 4 million 360,000, and it is now actually 6 billion in Minfin. 4 billion, and actually it's 6.5 billion. He needs to be sent away, and let the government make its proposals as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. Please sign up for discussion, three minutes. In accordance with the reduced procedure, three minutes are allocated to the performances of the National Deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the performances. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Constantine Ischeikin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the state budget for 2016 provides that the State grants subsidies to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heat and water supply, and water supply, housing, maintenance of houses and buildings, the export of household waste and liquid impurities. Today, it is clear that the cost of providing benefits and subsidies to the population is not enough. Subsidies for local budgets come from a state-owned fund, and an analysis of incomes shows that incomes are being overturned from separate sources. In total, this figure is about 400 billion, 360 million dollars. The bill proposes that these funds be sent to local budgets to provide benefits and housing subsidies to those in need. It should be pointed out that the bill foresees an increase in subsidies on the basis of a change in the revenue plan to the general public budget fund and in any case does not cut other articles from the state budget for 16 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u49	Please, Medusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u50	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Dear colleagues! This law needs to be adopted from a basic point of view, so that we are regularly underpaid at the end of the year in local budgets. We have spent two years, two years in education and medical subsidies, financing the powers delegated by the State. But it's obviously not enough. And local budgets have to find some reserves. Now, in order for these imbalances not to exist, we need to take these changes to the state budget today and eliminate these imbalances. We were at the exit meeting of the Committee of Budgets in the Mikolai district last week. And we've been absolutely able to see the problems that we can eliminate by adopting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lensky. Krivenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u52	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I support the initiative that sounded from the rostrum that such bills would certainly have to submit to the government. And the government asked our committee to actually save them in the situation they were in. But the call not to vote, because there's little provision, it's not enough, debt is more, it's, you know, it's kind of a desire, the worse, the better. That's why I don't support the position when they call for this law not to vote. We have to vote for him. This is important for all communities, for all local budgets. And that's why I registered it and filed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u53	Let us move on to the decision-making process, honourable national deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Yeah, we're done talking, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I urge you to come into the hall now. Now we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall, as well as the heads of factions, to invite deputies to the decision-making room, please. Colleagues, please invite you to the Chamber of Deputies and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2016 (to increase the amount of subsidies to local budgets) (number 5502) proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals, a colleague. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:02:35]] For 277 Decision taken. And, colleagues, now, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council yesterday, even applauded this proposal, I will now make an offer to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the agenda. We have a lot of proposals for drafts on the Conciliation Board, we don't get to look at them during the day, and we agreed yesterday that we would support this position, colleagues. The heads of the committees and the heads of the factions supported this position. And I'm asking you to take your seats now and get ready for the vote. Thus, according to part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a decision to continue the plenary meeting after 18 hours is taken by the Supreme Council at the morning plenary meeting for more than 15 minutes. I propose that you continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the agenda. Let's go to the vote. People's deputies please vote in favour of this proposal, colleagues. Please support how we agreed yesterday and please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[11:04:08]] For 219 We didn't make it. Guys, I'm gonna put it again. I can see we're not there yet. Please come into the hall, please take your jobs, colleagues. Let's do the factions. Please turn it on while the MPs are in the room. Colleagues, are they all in the hall? So once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the day-to-day agenda, colleague. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Please support this proposal, the work of the Supreme Council, pending the conclusion of the agenda. Please vote, colleagues, please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:05:18]] For 211 My colleagues, I don't have enough votes on the board. I'd just like to go to factions, please show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 107, "National Front" – 69, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 10, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 14, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the People" – 0. Put it up again, colleagues? Let's, colleagues, we'll be able to get back to this in the morning, it doesn't need to be put into the agenda of the day session. I just hope that our desire to work as expressed on the Conciliation Council should be reflected in the voting in the Hall. Unfortunately, you can't see it yet. I'll make that offer again, but I'll put it on later. Now we're going to go to the next question, the budget issue as well, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 (for subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies) (number 5482), my colleague. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a proposal for inclusion in the agenda and decision making (5482). Colleagues, I'm asking you to get ready, please go into the hall, get in the agenda of the session and make a decision so that we can make a decision right away, this is a budget clarification for 2016. Please vote, please support subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies, the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please, colleagues, please back up, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:07:36]] For 248 Decision taken. And we can move on to this question. Colleagues, my first offer, is Daniluk Alexander present? Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman came to see us. We welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, is there a Daniluk? Marchenko, yes. Colleagues, let's get to the draft Law 5482, and I'm asking you to support its consideration under a reduced procedure. Please support consideration 5482 on the simplified procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:08:31]] For-187 Decision taken. And the government will report to Sergey Marchenko. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u55	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your view is on the proposal of a bill that is called upon to address the need for a full amount of energy subsidies. In order not to allow for the complexity of the accounts and the accumulation of creditors' debt, the bill proposes to amend expenditures No. 3 and No. 7 of the Ukrainian National Budget for 2016 in part of the increase in subsidies from the national budget to local budgets, the granting of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for the payment of housing and utility services for the sum of 2.4 billion dollars for the reduction of expenditure on the budget programme for the financial provision of pensions, allowances and pensions allocated to the pension programme and the deficits of the Pension Fund for the corresponding amount. In addition, in order to secure public budget funding at the expense of government borrowing, it is proposed to provide for a rule in the State Budget Act that allows for a deviation from the marginal amount of government debt and the marginal amount of guaranteed government debt in the event of a deviation of the official rate of interest from the United States dollar from the projected amount applied in the formulation of the national budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u56	Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of National Deputy John Kulichenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, on December 7th, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered the government bill 5482. The bill primarily provides for an increase in subsidies to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for housing services by 2 billion 451 million dollars. Taking into account the adoption of Bill 5502, this subsidy will increase to 47 billion dollars. The bill is balanced by budgetary indicators as it provides for the redistribution of expenditure by two programmes within the overall scope. However, the bill did not provide financial and economic calculations on changes in the corresponding expenditure and information on the availability of economies under the 5506080 programmes. This is a law similar to the one we just voted for -- 5502. Therefore, the committee proposes to adopt such a decision: recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 5482 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals put forward in a letter to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the committee, along with Minfin and the Chief Legal Authority, in the formation of the relevant law, should make the necessary editorial and technical regulations. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u58	Thank you. People's deputies, please. prepare for discussion. Please record for the discussion. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It's good to see the Prime Minister here. And that's why I'd like to ask you a question. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, you've been persuading us all for a long time that the problems of subsidies will solve the prices of utilities. I want to inform you that during last week's election meetings, I've had a lot of treatment with pensioners who show a $2,000 utility bill, a $800 grant, a $200 bill, and a $1,000 pension. I have a question: how do I pay a thousand 200 for a utility station at one and a half thousand dollars of retirement? So I'm again asking you, with the request of our faction of the Radical Party, to restore the social standard of gas consumption so that when a person invests in social norms, he can pay less for gas. Today, many people, especially in the villages, leave their homes, move into summer kitchens, and freeze there with cats and dogs. If dogs and cats were not warmed by pensioners, they would be frozen with these tariffs. I demand that you return to the social standard of gas consumption and review the price of gas. Seven thousand dollars per thousand cubes of gas is not the price for most Ukrainians. And when 50 to 70 percent of their income has to be spent on utility, no family will survive. Well, finally, with regard to pensioners, one and a half thousand pensions are pennies that people can't survive on. The Radical Party faction demands of you the same way we did on wages -- twice we raised the minimum wage, for which we thank you for hearing us and supporting our initiative, and I hope that you will hear us and radically raise our pensions to the pensioners. The minimum pension should be 4,000 dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u60	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dmitry Andreyevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Bill 5482, which you and I are looking at, is the exact same thing as being called upon to at least partially answer the questions of the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljashka, how to pay for housing services. It is quite clear that the government's housing grant programme, on the one hand, has significantly reduced the budget burden. And I'm going to remind you that by 2014, more than 100 billion dollars were being sent from the state budget to pay off the debts and deficit of Naftogazu. And on the other hand, these subsidies are targeted to support that part of the population, those Ukrainians who are not fully able to pay for residential services. Sadly, on December 1, about 4.7 billion dollars were owed. And by the end of the year, it can still grow. That's why our faction will support the government's proposal to increase spending as a subsidy to local budgets on housing subsidies. I am sure that the bill does not have any political element, it is purely economic in nature, and it must unite the hall. The Peter Prashenko Faction is offering to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u62	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergey Soboljeva, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u63	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, I think the first and second bills are too much to confirm that the so-called subsidy program has failed. Ten days before the end of the financial year, the government suddenly realized that it was necessary to allocate funds to ensure that subsidies continued to be paid. But let's see what this is all about. Two key programs are the pension deficit, and that's retirement. So imagine, the pensioners who will receive these subsidies will get an additional resource from the government's coming into the pocket of the Pension Fund. Well, such cynicism should be sought even 10 days before the end of the financial year! But that is not all. The second article on which this resource will be found is actually an increase in the budget deficit. Because, you see, the exchange rate for the dollar bracelet gave an extra resource. Therefore, our faction will not vote for such a decision. Look for the real resource that is in the country today. And if you've even come to your senses 10 days before the end of the financial year, find the funds that can actually be allocated to this program of failed subsidies. So we suggest that the government immediately introduce a new bill and vote it out in the form that you don't go into the pockets of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u64	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Alexander Shipka, the Holiday Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to urgently addressing the socio-economic development of individual areas, we propose to complete the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2016, as part of the increase in State Budget subsidies to local budgets to implement measures for the socio-economic development of individual territories by 350 million dollars for the corresponding reduction in public debt service expenditure. In this regard, I ask you to amend Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 Act, namely: to increase the general budget of the State Budget by 350 million under the budget programme code 3511210; to reduce the general budget expenditure under the budget code 3511350 by the same amount. In addition, amendments to Appendix 7 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2016 Act should be made to clarify the total amount of State budget subsidies to local budgets for social measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u67	on the socio-economic development of individual territories in summary indicators in Appendix 3. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. The committee supports and the government supports these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u68	I understand you were speaking from the committee at the same time. Yeah? Mr. Shipko! So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. We're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking the heads of factions, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Chamber. Colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for decision-making. Colleagues, we're not leaving the hall, we're going in the back. Ready to make a decision? There was a performance there. Colleagues, so let's move on to the decision-making process. I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 (for subsidies for grants and housing subsidies), proposed by the committee on the basis and as a whole with amendments announced by the committee from the rostrum by Deputy Shipko under the stenogram. Dear colleagues, in such an editorial manner, I ask you to support the draft Law on the basis and generally, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support, please vote. [[11:22:05]] For 246 Decision taken. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next one. By factions, please include the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 117, People's Front – 68, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 22, Father's Party – 0, Radical Party – 15, Party of Rebirth – 6, Will of the People – 2. Colleagues, let's move on to the next chapter on inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, we're going to be here without talking about making decisions, so I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. Colleagues, please, will now be a day-to-day session block. I would like to point out that the first of these laws is the bill amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to guarantee the State's investment of natural persons. This is 5553, 5553-1, 5553-2. Colleagues, we need to make quick decisions. We'll be able to look into it after lunch, and we'll have to put it in the agenda now. The committee made a commitment. Yes, I'll have the committee consider it if there's a decision. But I'm counting on the Supreme Council to act responsibly, and we're now going to include this in the agenda of the session, my colleague. Ready to vote? Please, I see the MPs are still good. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to guarantee the State's investment of natural persons. Colleagues, please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, colleagues. We're backing up! Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[11:24:32]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm giving the commission to the Committee on Finance and Banking during the afternoon to hold a committee so that we can make a decision at 4 p.m. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision, and 4 p.m. is the solution to the decision-making process. Next. Colleagues, this is the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary allocations for the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This question is essential for judicial reform. Now it's only suggested that we put it in the agenda so that we can look at it on the committee. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary allocations for the activities of the Constitutional Court (5425). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:26:01]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions are being asked. Peter Poshenko's Block – 111 People's Front – 71, Opposition Block – 17, Self-Help – 6, Parenthood – 0, Radical Party – 2, Rebirth Party – 10, Will of the People – 2. Next, colleagues, draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct). It's a day-to-day session of 5490, colleagues. You all had the opportunity to learn. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5490 day session, that was the committee's request for the Conciliation Council. Please vote. And please support the 5490 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote please, fellows! Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:27:18]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in multi-family housing. This is a question on which the demands of many factions were made, and as far as I know, there is general support, and we could even go straight to its acceptance if the general will of the hall were to include it in the order of the day session. So I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session to decide the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in apartment buildings (number 5473). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:28:22]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, if there's no objection, there's general support, we'll get right to it after this chapter. There's a general position here, general support. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose assets are located in the ATO area. It was a committee requirement, it was a requirement for us to support it, because we could lose money from disorganizing the issue. And so I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session. The committee asked immediately to consider whether there was a mobilization resource, whether there was support, colleagues. The question is clear and familiar to all. The MP, head of the Dubnevich Committee, demanded the Conciliation Council. And I put to the vote, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session for the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose assets are located in the ATO area (5428), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[11:30:00]] For 253 Decision taken. If there's no objection to the hall, we'll move right after this chapter to these questions, colleagues, those on whom there's a committee. I also want to let you know, because there are discussions that I will also put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day session at the request of the Self-Help faction number 5487, and I will also put the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The next thing we have in our agenda is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of renaming of local government administrations (5541). Colleagues, it's just an order of the day session. Please vote and please support 5541: inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote 5541, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the renaming of local government administrations. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote in the agenda, we vote in the agenda. [[11:31:28]] For 261 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues. This requirement was for the Committee on Culture on the Conciliation Council to include in the agenda the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (number 5491). Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, and I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of session 5491: draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting, please support. [[11:32:27]] For 258. Decision taken. Colleagues, there are now two more demands from two political factions: the Self-Help factions and the People's Front factions. From the People's Front faction, Bill 5557. So, colleagues, I'm going to inform you right now, and since these bills weren't listed, I'm going to give them a call. The demand for the People's Front draft of the Law on Further Measures to Increase the Defence of the State and the Social Protection of Ukrainian Citizens by Using Civil Seizure Mechanisms is 5557. One. Next. The requirement, which is from the Self-Help faction, is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the inviolability of national MPs (5487). So these two draft laws are now going to be put into the order of the day session, just to be included in the session. One of these concerns the simplification of the procedure for removing intact — 5487. I'm preparing an alternative bill for him, but I'm just going to add it. The second refers to the special confiscation regime. So, colleagues, I'm putting them to the vote in the sequence that I've been sounding. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, please take your jobs. First of all, I'm putting the draft Act on additional measures to increase the level of defence of the state and social protection of Ukrainian citizens into the agenda of the day session by applying civil confiscation mechanisms (5557), a colleague. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote only for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:35:22]] For-191 The decision is not taken. And 5487: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies) only to include the day session in the order of the day. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[11:35:58]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, respectable colleagues, attention! Now, colleagues, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, after which we agreed yesterday on the Conciliation Council, to continue our work until the agenda is exhausted. And I very much ask all national deputies to prepare for the vote. Not everyone was in the hall. Colleagues, colleagues, I'd like you to invite everyone into the hall. I'll remind you, yesterday we agreed to work out the order of the day session. All of this was supported by the Conciliation Council, unfortunately we lacked a few votes in the hall. So once again, I urge you to take up jobs now, and I will put this proposal to the vote again. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs in a responsible manner. Now I'm going to make another suggestion to continue the session until the agenda of the session is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Now I'm going to re-vote the proposal to continue our work until the order of the day session is exhausted, my colleague. Here the Prime Minister of Ukraine is addressing that he is also asking for everyone's support. Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the day-to-day agenda, colleague. Please vote and please support. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please support until the order of the day session is exhausted. Vote! [[11:39:33]] For 223 Three votes, colleagues! I can see it! Colleagues, please do not go to the hall during the vote. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm begging you, colleagues! I have the right to ask that question again. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs and support them. Are you ready, colleagues? Have you all reached your jobs? I once again put a motion to the vote and ask everyone to support: to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the day-to-day agenda, my colleague. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, show the people of Ukraine that we are able to make responsible decisions and work late. [[11:40:39]] For 222 Three votes. I'm asking you to include the factions. The factions say, "Peter Dustock's Block." [[Noise Nodes]] Peter Poshenko's Block – 119, People's Front – 72, Opposition Block – Zero, Self-Help – 4, Parenthood – Zero, Radical Party – 17, Rebirth Party – Zero, Will of the People – Zero. Colleagues, me. Let's vote now, colleagues. I'll remind you again of yesterday's Conciliation Council. All of us are required to consider the issues of the day’s order, and we are not able to deal with them. Yesterday we agreed that we were working until the agenda was exhausted. Colleagues, it was a joint decision of the Conciliation Council, received with applause yesterday. It's all very banal. We will not be able to accept questions about transportation or the support of local self - government. Many of the issues that are in order during the day we simply cannot accept. I'm talking to factions, I'm asking for it, but I met this requirement, I put it. Please. I supported, placed, and supported. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote again, and I'm asking you to support everyone. I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the day-to-day agenda is completed. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Vote please, colleagues. Keep it up, fellows. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:42:48]] For 229 Decision taken. I think it was a responsible, important decision. Colleagues, please stay in your seats. I'd like that. Attention, colleagues! Please remain seated, there will be a vote. Colleagues, we now have two laws that we have adopted for the order of the day session that we can go into consideration. First of all, 5428 is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose assets are located in the ATO. Colleagues, we can move on to his consideration. This was a requirement of a transport committee. And I'm asking you to support the first vote, the consideration of it by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support. 5428 – consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please. [[11:43:59]] For 207 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Dubnevic Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to report. Please, Mr. Jaroslav. It was your request, you have the power to convince the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u69	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of the establishment of a public limited liability association for rail transport and on the implementation of the legislation. This is an important and necessary bill, because it is aimed at not allowing the use of PAT's "Straightway" assets under the obligations of railway undertakings whose property is located in the territory of an anti-terror operation and which is not transferred to Pat "Straightway" as a legal successor established by the law of order. This is primarily about the debts of the state-owned railway company, which is located in the ATO holding zone. It continues to carry out economic activity in an uncontrollable territory, and the management of which is not exercised by the authorities of Ukraine and Pat "Ukrasliznica". The legal mechanisms provided for in the Ukrainian Civil Code would seem to be in place. And if the succession did not take place in an order established by the law in force, there is no basis for recourse to the property of Pat "The Crucifixion". But despite the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order on the Establishment of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway No. 200", Decree on certain matters of the inventory of property of enterprises and railway institutions No. 604, an active process of collecting debts from the State Railway Company from Pat "Ukrzaliznica" seems to be a successor to the unjust decisions of the judges. The size of the demands, according to Pat's Crossroads, is over $117 million. Therefore, to the Committee on Transport and Initiatives. I'm asking for 30 minutes. Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u70	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u71	30 seconds, yeah. Therefore, MEPs of the Transport Committee for the Pat initiative "The Crossroads" and the support of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine introduced this bill with a view to temporarily completing the ATO to prevent the forced withdrawal of funds from the PAT "The Crossroads", under the obligations of companies that did not have the company. I would like to point out that this is not a moratorium on the performance of obligations or their termination. This is a temporary step towards the period of implementation of the ATO and the implementation of procedures for the succession of procedures for the determination of valid legislation. Following a discussion of the bill, the Transport Committee decided in 07.12.16 to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 5428) from 18.11.16. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the adoption of the bill. Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on, dear fellows, to save money, to save our time, to talk. And the committee stresses that they're offering as a basis and as a whole, but the hall will be defined. Please two in favour, two in favor, and two in front of you, please sign up to discuss Bill 5428. Dear colleagues, please, from the Radical Party, National Deputy Kuprienko gives the word to Lozo Andrija.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'm Andrew Lozova, the Radical Party. Please support this bill, because this is an absolute nonsensus that the constituency of Ukraine, having occupied territories, has to pay for the debts of an enterprise that we temporarily have, we'll expect that it's short-lived by Moscow's invaders. At the same time, in general, about the situation with the Crucifixion. For no one is the secret that most of the roundwood forest that now, thanks to the Lach-Galasuk law, the roundwood forest is illegal, all of which is exported through the Crucifixion. What's actually going on at the Crucifixion Station is always in Poland, where we've been brought to Romania, where our deforestation is likened to terrorism, to the Czech Republic, to Slovakia, to Europe, to Austria, to Italy. In Europe, there is an enormous amount of woodworking. But they don't want to cut out the Alps, they don't want to cut out other mountains, they don't want to cut out their forests, they want to cut out ours. And total corruption in Crucifixion at all levels, you've all seen, as I and my colleague Linc and I, with Mosiyczuk -- this was recorded on my native Plain, in Volin, everyone knows that this is happening in Lviv, in Bukovina, in Ivano-Francischi, where our party, particularly Mikola Basarab, Sergey Chapling, is regularly fixed. And what we see today is, unfortunately, that the so-called reformers from abroad led by Mr. Balchun, instead of reforms, they have just led up to the total corruption that has existed for years in the Crossroads, after the illegal export of the forest, through illegal, left-hand tenders, all of them, absolutely, all of the corruption schemes of the Crucibles continue to work. And this disgrace must be stopped. And we can see that as long as Ukrainians are unemployed, without pay, all these wage earners, pseudo-reformators, there's no use for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the Romanyuk People's Deputy conveys the word to a colleague from the Igor Pober's Block of Peter Dustenk. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u75	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Igor Pober, the Peter Dust Block. Our Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill. The Supreme Council is to adopt a moratorium on the compulsory collection of funds from the PAT "Ukrzalznica" for the debts of the State Enterprise "Donetsk Railway", which is located in the temporarily occupied territory. Using a legal colossal, the plots representing the Russian banks want to withdraw about 4 billion dollars from Pat's Cruszalznica. It should be recalled that one of the main drivers of our country’s economic development is its geopolitical position as a transit country. Rail transport today is the most reliable and reliable. Our duty to our Parliament is to adopt this bill. If we don't accept it, we don't vote, 4 billion dollars will be collected from Pat's Cruise. And we're not going to be able to buy any new cars that are scheduled for 2017. This is going to be a collapse in the Crucifixion, which could lead to the bankruptcy of the Crucifixion. You can't let that happen under any circumstances. So our faction asks everyone to support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Igor. The national deputy, Helen Schrum, conveys the word Sergey Sobolev. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u77	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! We think it's a very important bill that actually allows an aggressor country to ban through their commercial banks, which, by the way, are ruled in Ukraine thanks to a firm and a company, an asset that we don't control. We are willing to vote even in general under one amendment. Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you to listen to this amendment. It only mentions an area of anti-terrorist operation. But the anti-terrorist area has a controlled and uncontrollable territory. It is desirable to specify: in an uncontrollable territory. And in that way we can vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Are there still willing to speak from factions, from groups? Are you all here, colleagues? We're just a minute away from Dubneevich, head of the committee. To give his opinion on the proposal made by Sergio Sobolev, please. And, colleagues, colleagues, in two minutes we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall right now. And I ask all the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Jaroslav Dubnevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! That's a good offer from Mr. Sergio Soboljev. And I would like to vote for the basis and in general with a clarification: property that is in an uncontrollable territory that is not controlled by Ukraine, in the ATO zone, is temporarily not controlled by the state of Ukraine in the ATO zone. Please vote as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Please come in, we're busy. We're about to move on to making a decision, colleagues. I'll wait 30 seconds for the deputies to enter the hall. Can we move on to making a decision, colleagues? Please wait, the MPs are coming in. We'll wait a minute. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on railway transport enterprises, whose assets are located in the ATO area (number 5428) with a bill issued by Sergio Sobolev and confirmed by the head of the committee Jaroslav Dubnevich. So, on the basis of both the rights and the technical legal development of the committee of this bill, my colleague. On the basis and in general, please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[11:55:51]] For 266 The law is passed. And thanks for the report, and for the work, it brought the whole room together. According to factions: Peter Poshenko's Block – 108, People's Front – 64, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 24, Father's Day – 15, Oleg Lachka's Radical Party – 16, Restoration Party – 9, Will of the People – 2. Colleagues, right after lunch, we're going to move on to the next law that we've put into the agenda for decision-making, which is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in apartment housing. It's a question that's been supported by the entire hall. I'm just asking very much, colleagues, at 12:30 to have everyone in the workplace so that we can move immediately into the working system of voting and working. So I'm asking very much at 12:30 everyone in the conference room to continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break, and we're going to continue our work at 12:30. I very much ask everyone once again to be disciplined at 12:30 in the hall to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please come into the hall and prepare to continue our work. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, I invite everyone to the hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to come to the hall. Colleagues, so we move on to the next issue of the agenda that we've put in the agenda for decision-making. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in apartment buildings (5473). I'll be the first to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, honourable colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 5473 under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:42:03]] For-86 Dear colleagues, I warned you to be in the workplace at 12:30. 12.40, there's no people, we'll follow the full procedure. That's what I said at the Conciliation Council. So we're starting our consideration of draft Law 5473 in full procedure, and I'm inviting you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasimov Artura Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The practice of remodeling apartments is common today in apartment buildings under hostels or offices. This is primarily due to the absence of a clear definition of restrictions on the use of apartments for commercial activities. In most cases, rooms are used without complying with established fire safety regulations and key rules, which complicates the rapid evacuation of those in the house. In doing so, the legal responsibility for such an offence is insufficient. For the purpose of resolving the problem, a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in multiple apartment buildings (registration number 5473) has been introduced. The bill proposes to impose restrictions on the use of apartments in multi-housing dwellings and to increase liability for offences in the area indicated. In particular, the bill provides for amendments to the Housing Code on the strengthening of citizens' housing obligations, as well as to the Civil Code of Ukraine on clarifying the possibility of using an apartment to carry out economic activity only by persons -- I emphasize this -- who are their owners or whose residence is registered in the apartment in question. The adoption of the bill will help to ensure the rights of residents of housing, their safety, their compliance with established rules and regulations for the use of premises. In preparing for the second reading, I want to point out that we will take into account all the comments that will be proposed by the deputies. And I ask the National Deputies to join in preparing this law for second reading. I can also say right away that when we prepare for second reading, we will take into account all the comments made by the Anti-Corruption Committee that we have now received and are ready to add to this law as amendments. In view of the above, I ask for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in apartment housing (registration number 5473) to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u83	Thank you. You're staying in the rostrum. Now three minutes is a question to the reporter. Please hold the recording. Please, Ednak. Turn on the microphone. The same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u84	Dear reporter, please tell me if there is a transitional period in the draft law when the issue is settled. Since we know there's a lot of offices now, they're in housing, there's people working there. And if we adopt a law that will work tomorrow, it can hurt, especially in a small medium-sized business where small businesses, firms work and earn money, and pay taxes. So, please, is there a transitional period foreseen in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. First, the law clearly states that this law takes effect only a year after it is signed as a law, after it has been adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. In addition, I can immediately say that in order to protect the very small and medium-sized business in this law, it is clearly stated that those who own these premises or who are prescribed or registered in these premises and who are engaged in personal farming have the right to do so. And the only fuse is when they're renting this apartment and there's an office that goes into 30, 40, 50 people, usually what they are today. And what I'm saying right now is that the key task is to protect the residents of housing. Because you know, there are a lot of problems today in this, in this area, in this issue, and people are turning very much. But at the same time, we have to protect our small, medium-sized business, and for that, all the fuses here are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u86	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Questions completed. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 8 December 2016, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the use of apartment housing (registration number 5473), submitted by national deputies Gerasimov, Andriyevsky, Kodola and others. It should be noted that today there is chaos in the matter. Let me draw your attention to such a thing. According to article 383 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, the owner of an apartment has the right to use housing for his own living, the residence of family members, other persons, and the right not to use it for industrial production, as noted in article 383 of the Civil Code. It should be noted that this restriction extends only to industrial production, which is essentially a process of processing used to produce new products, to process goods that were used, to provide industrial services. At the same time, we are now receiving numerous, hundreds of appeals and complaints from house dwellers using acetone, which is used in the chemical production, but it is so small that it does not fit. At the same time, if it is subject to an article of limitation, the responsibility for violating the rules on the use of housing and housing is provided by article 150 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, in particular in accordance with the provisions of the article on the violation of the rules on the use of residential and residential buildings, entails a warning or a fine on a citizen from one to three non-taxed minimum incomes of citizens and a warning or a fine on officials from three to seven non-taxed minimum incomes of citizens. People are being poisoned, and the fine is paid for three untaxed minimums. So, indeed, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusion has expressed a number of observations and suggestions. However, the committee has carefully studied the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of its consideration, incorporate draft Ukrainian Law 5473 into the agenda that we have done and adopt it on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up for a question to a coconspirator. Please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Rybak of the WFP, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u89	Dear reporter, please tell me if the question at all counted the payment of utilities for the apartments separately, yes. and the question of utility services for non-residential premises, office facilities and so on. There is an injustice that, as of today, offices that are housed pay. And they get subsidies, including, and they pay as ordinary citizens. And in nonresidential facilities, entrepreneurs are forced to pay for the full program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u90	In fact, what's special about this bill is that it's actually forbidden to do any kind of economic activity, except for persons who own or live in a given apartment without employment. As far as I'm concerned. We know that legislation provides that such dwellings should be moved from non-residential housing. And just like entrepreneurs like non-residential housing, they both pay and don't use subsidies, and they don't pay as much as residents of neighborhoods who only use housing for housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u91	Excuse me, please. Next question from our distinguished colleague, Mr. Yatzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u92	Indeed, an important bill. All I have is a question. Shouldn't we postpone the vote because there are no people in the room right now, and I think it might be broken down for purely technical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u93	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u94	Well, that was a performance. I fully support it. Because it's an important bill. Thank you. Yes, we may ask the speaker to put it up after our colleagues appear and vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u95	Please ask the following question from the Kodola People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u96	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Well, I don't have a question, but as co-author of this legislative initiative, I want to support my colleague, the entire copyrighted colleague. Unfortunately, today we have the center of Kiev, the entire center of Kiev, all the multi-story buildings, unfortunately, are not being used for the purpose. There are offices, hostels, excuse me, brothels, and so forth. So it is clear that our faction will support the adoption of this bill on the basis of which we should actually regulate it at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u97	Give me the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u98	Well, the only way I can answer that is that in the list of entrepreneurial activities, there are no individual species, a respected colleague, that are not mentioned. That's why we can't even impose a fine there, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u99	Question time's up, dear colleagues. Thank you. And now we have the factions, according to our Rules. I ask all factions and groups to sign up for your position on the bill under discussion. Please. Please, Mr. Kodola, give me your word. You're from the rostrum. Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, in fact, I have stated our position of political power unequivocally that we must support this bill. If there are any comments from colleagues, we are now proposing to adopt this bill as a basis and then to work on the second reading with all the comments and amendments. So we're going to vote yes and we're going to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u101	The People's Deputy Kirilenko, from the faction of Fatherskin, gives the word to the People's Deputy Kugel. Please, Mrs. Alexander will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u102	The Fatherland faction, Kugel. We had a very serious discussion on the faction of this bill and, you know, it felt like raising the minimum wage to 3,200. On the one hand, it's an improvement for people who live together in a high-rise building, where, for example, in my Forest 21a south it's offices. And we can't create any OSBs, and our citizens who live there give them up without contracts, and these apartments are used as offices. I understand this is a violation. But it's for Mr. Nasirov, there's a photo of him. It's his job to walk around and say that these people have to pay taxes and have contracts. On the other hand, our law today has agreed that economic activity cannot be carried out in a housing fund. So this is a settled question. And so in the way it's written, it's going to hurt a lot in small business. And there is a warning that this will make the economic situation worse. So in our view, we still need to make a rereading of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u103	Thank you, dear colleague. It's from the Rebirth Group, the People's Deputy Kisse. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u104	Please give the floor to my colleague Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u105	Please. Please turn on the microphone for Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we can support our colleague, who has become the initiator of this bill. But we need to understand that if you and I don't work on this second-reading bill, taking into account the mechanism that will be used to implement its provisions, it will remain just another rule that will set a ban. What are we talking about? You realize that today all of the owners of apartments who have usually invested more in these apartments don't live there, they use their property for their own reasons. And these apartments are leased to both businesses, entrepreneurs and unknown persons for their own activities. It's usually the dark side of our economy. And of course, if you and I don't have a mechanism to implement this bill, we're not going to make any difference. Therefore, our position will be to support the author of the bill in order to adopt the bill in the first reading. We suggest that the author and his colleagues take the matter seriously into consideration for the second reading. There will always be a discussion here between the protection of the right of people to their property. And how this property is used by tenants. And if we don't find a normal balance of life here with you, this standard will be dead. So in the first reading, we can support it. But the second reading is very carefully and carefully approached by this bill, for there is a great human problem in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. And now from the Peter Prashenko Block, the faction's position is to present the People's Deputy Krivenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u108	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement. I'm not going to represent the faction's position. I'll say that on the first reading, this bill should be adopted. And I want to call all my colleagues. There is Bill 2915, which we, along with colleagues of Kishkar, Lubinec, Krulk, Sumar, Rybak, Vadaturski, Musak submitted on May 20, 2015. Which excludes the break from 12 to 12.30. We are ashamed of all the Ukrainian people that we cannot work from 10 to 14 hours. A man at work at a factory can work. The bus driver can work. And we can't sit for four hours and then we're going through a full procedure of laws that make it clear. So I urge everyone to support this bill. And put 2915 in order for us to vote, to bring the regulations into law, and not to be disgraced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, four factions and groups took advantage of the right to discuss the bill. Are there other factions that have not come forward? We can't see. BP was the word. So now, please, from "self-help" Podlisecki, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, it's not good to see the faction behind the trees. Turn on the microphone, Podlisecki, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u110	A very important question was raised in the bill. In fact, we see a big problem in many residential buildings, where there are hostels, there are offices, there are other rooms that are not used as dwellings at all. And that's really a big problem. Unfortunately, we have a time when business is hard enough to develop, business finds all possible mechanisms to minimize its costs. In fact, because of the reduced cost, business goes into a form of farming, such as FOP (physical person/entrepreneur), which uses its dwellings or uses its rented dwellings, and there it places its commercial objects like this hostel, such as this office, such as other certain commercial organizations. So at first glance, it is really important to support this bill. But at the same time, we must remember that there are thousands of jobs, thousands of people, and perhaps millions who make money. Hence, this includes paying taxes, taxes on local budgets, as small business entities pay local budgets, and local taxes are small businesses. Therefore, if we are to support in the first reading, we need to work on the mechanisms for simplifying accommodations and enabling small subjects to use their facilities for their purposes, especially for us. To anticipate the possibility that small businesses that are registered at the place of residence may, inter alia, hire labour for the purpose of doing so. for their own execution, because mostly FOPs simply register at their place of residence, and we'll stop them from doing so by the bill. We need to work on second reading and also work on different bills and different points to simplify the process of moving from housing to non-residential fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, that the Housing Code has left us far from the realities of life, I think there is no doubt about it. And what we're going to talk about today, when housing associations are being set up, when utilities are being paid from all over the house, is that what we're going to say to the whole house, when these are problems and difficulties with utilities, of course the residents of the house need to protect that clearly. The residents of the house pay for their use of services and must be protected, they understand that this is their home, and they must meet the requirements and the means they pay for it. It's on the one side. But we understand the second thing very well. Today's small business, it's to some extent creating jobs, it's filling the income part of the budget. And if it's so inadvertent, as is now described in the first reading, in that law, to approach its adoption, we will strike a huge blow on small and medium-sized businesses. We will lose a huge share of income, especially in local budgets. We're going to lose jobs for our people, for the same people in the same house, maybe. Therefore, we are categorically in favour of taking a very careful approach to the adoption of this bill only on first reading so that we can finalize and adopt proposals to correct all of these things that we are talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u113	Thank you to the Opposition Block for your position. And, dear colleagues, a list of factions who wanted to express their position was drawn from factions. And now I am announcing, under the Rules, an entry into the position of the Ukrainian people's deputies, an opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please. Please, Victor Chumak, the non-fractional passes the word to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a problem in the bill? Yes. And if it relates to farming, all calls are absolutely correct. But this isn't about farming, I want to read it to you. "The use is not intended for apartments in apartment housing, including offices, hotels and other facilities is prohibited. " I understand if the authors wanted to ban certain activities, and they were entitled to such a ban. But why can't we register an office in a housing facility, as hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens did? If tax problems arise, they should be settled if there are problems of payment with different tariffs, they should be answered in this bill. But think about the problem, if you can't put an office in the living room, we're denying the rights of hundreds of thousands of people to register their own business. On the other hand, the law is contradictory; on the one hand, the opening of offices is prohibited; on the other hand, it is allowed direct economic activity, but in the event that the business is carried out by the owner of the apartment, but it is prohibited to hire employees. I understand if we set the employment restrictions. So in my opinion, the bill is very controversial, and in the first reading it cannot be corrected in the second reading mode. And I support the proposal made by Alexander Kugel to send the bill for re-reading. Why do I want to emphasize the replay of the first reading? It cannot be corrected by rights, new rules must be introduced here, and the current Rules do not allow for the second reading of rules that were not the subject of the bill in the first reading. So I urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, but to send it back for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u115	Thank you, mate. Now, please, Igor Melniczuk of the Block of Peter Prashenko gives the floor to the National Deputy of Andrew. Please, the Andriyewsky People's Deputy will speak on this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, a simple and understandable project. And I would like to answer the previous speaker, by the way. That's right, you can't put offices in apartments. But no one can reverse the order of living when the corresponding taxes, which, by the way, go to local budgets, are paid. And when you have translated and obtained the legal right to use housing as a non-living facility, please use it as an assignment. Otherwise, it is indeed forbidden, and this law establishes very clear and transparent mechanisms for such transfer. Another important question. The authors of the law came out primarily for security reasons. You can imagine what happens when, for example, there's an office in a multi-story building. And if there's a fire situation, any other disaster, you can imagine what's going on on the top floor. Therefore, it was for security reasons, not just economic utility, that resulted from the drafters of the bill. What's more, for small and medium-sized businesses, we've foreseen the possibility of working in these offices. But not by overloading engineering networks, elevator farming, but by working in person without involving additional labor. And once again, I want to repeat to those who might not have worked it out, who didn't finish this law, and in no case do we ban the use of the housing fund outside of destination. Please be able to translate, and there is a general order of such a transfer, housing, and then use it as an assignment. So I would like this bill to be supported in the first reading. For the second reading, we can impose additional restrictions on, for example, superficiality. Place, for example, 16 floors for buildings where you can't use them in offices. And so to settle the legal right of every Ukrainian citizen to use his property, his property. On the other hand, to provide opportunities for further business development, to add money to local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u117	Thank you. And now the national deputy, Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u118	There is a norm in this bill, which is regulated differently by two different articles. And it's such a traditional "Corporate Clock" when the law says one thing in one case, and in another case it says the same thing. We agreed with Arthur Gerasim that it is very important to settle this problem for second reading, to prepare the amendment, and then the law is a good step forward. On the other hand, there's Bill 3136, which allows entrepreneurs to register where they live, where their apartments are. It's not production, it's not dishonest and dishonest services, it's registration so they can run their own business. I think it's very important that both of these bills be considered and adopted together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u119	Thank you, Jegor. Please, Alexy Kodola of the People's Front. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u120	Alexander Kodolah. Yeah, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u121	The crooked ones. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Well, first of all. I'd like to focus here as the head of a subcommittee on enterprise issues that the bill actually does not stifle the rights of the natural persons of entrepreneurs. This may well be one of the main reasons why someone may not want to vote for him or speak against him. So that's exactly what's going on. Now, obviously, I'd like to thank the committee again, because, in principle, a pretty serious fruitful work has been done, and the authors are members of the committee, and Alexander Kodola, and Dmitri Andriyewsky, in particular, the first author, Mr. Gerasimov. But I would like to draw attention to this: Dear friends, to this day, my colleague Alexander Kodola spoke about what is happening in Kiev. So maybe someone doesn't know, so I want to tell you that, for example, to me personally as a national MP, to my colleagues, especially the majority deputies in Kiev, not just a number of phone calls, but a number of calls from house dwellers, it doesn't matter what kind of property that just illegal hotels are actually destroying these buildings, that is, people can't sleep at night, they're actually destroying all the property in these driveways, they're not using communication for purposes. Well, it's just, frankly, a big, big shame. So this bill, I hope, will give more opportunities and rights to citizens to actually respond to it and actually fight this evil phenomenon. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the authors and perhaps to the second reading referred to the following, a rather serious problem for today is the rooms that are non-residential, which are used under the office on the first floor. We all have an understanding of that and, in principle, there's a plus in that, they can in some way cut on a much more comfortable, than some business center. But what happens is that in these basement, semi-dwelling first floor rooms, it's simple and direct production of some kind of device, tool, chemical thing. And so today it is simply quite negative and harmful to the health of the people living in these homes. So this phenomenon, this fact also needs to be addressed and, if there is, if there is a possibility to make appropriate corrections to the second reading, focus on this. This is also a rather serious problem. The bill is now, well, I'm more than convinced that it should be supported in the hall and I'd like to ask once again the leadership of the Supreme Council to invite in a vote so that in a few minutes all the deputies can come to the hall and we can vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Arthur Herasimov of Peter Dustenk's Block will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u124	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to answer the questions that I have only heard from so many speakers. I thank you for supporting this bill. The first question is regarding the registration of businesses in housing. It's not forbidden, and we don't have to ban it. If someone has, let's say, some fears, I can assure you that in preparing for the second reading, we will definitely once again pay attention and very clearly prescribe the standards that the registration of enterprises is allowed in housing, that's the first time. Secondly, as to what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said, this is exactly what we got from the Anti-Corruption Committee, from Jegor Sobolev, and we will also consider this. In addition, I would like to say that we fully support those adjustments that will make an even more severe response to the placement of harmful manufacturing activities right in housing. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in preparing this bill, we have analysed the international experience of other countries. And I want to tell you that there's a fairly serious restriction, or is it prohibited at all, to use housing for manufacturing. And if permitted, the number of employees employed is limited, and the majority of the rules are allowed to hire only one employee or are prohibited from hiring at all. And that's exactly what we've been trying to write in our first-reading law, in order to allow people who live in this apartment, who are prescribed or who own this apartment or apartment, to be allowed to do what they plan for themselves. And the key. This bill is primarily about the safety of our citizens. Because if, the defense of God, someone was experiencing a fire in high-rise buildings that were calculated by a certain number of residents, and there because of the placement of hostels, offices, this number of those in the house is higher than tens of times, I emphasize, in tens, they will realize how dangerous it is to ignore rules, especially fire safety and safety rules in general. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support this bill on the basis of today. And I repeat my call: All national deputies who want to join in drafting this law will make their amendments. I guarantee that we will take them into account when preparing the bill for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Ednak Ostap Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u126	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear authors of this legislative initiative! I think in the course of this discussion we all agree that this is a question and it's relevant that in housing, in the housing fund there are, apart from the usual offices where people work quietly, lately the hostels are called, but the hostels are not just normal, properly furnished, but in sleeping areas where dozens of people are cramped, roaring, gazing and so forth, and it may also need to be settled. We constantly see in the news that, sorry, and the "fornication houses" are in many apartment buildings, the law enforcement authorities are constantly showing, and this is clearly an unacceptable practice. This should be regulated, and it should be prohibited. And this law clearly raises the current problem: tens. thousands of renters, renters get income, and this income needs to be accounted for and needs to be paid up, including for real estate. And here, by the way, I'd like to say that maybe the local authorities know best, and we could best address this issue. Whether this bill proposes quality, simple, understandable and non-corruption decisions, I have a question here. And we have also seen and heard many warnings from national MPs. Also, doubts as to whether the instruments proposed in the draft law are sufficient and can be further developed into second readings. That's why I would recommend that we all define ourselves in our own way, but I'm sure we need to work on improving these mechanisms, and we need to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now give the next speaker a word, but I want to make a message. In five minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. One of our committees and one of the factions is happening at the same time. So I would very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. So in five minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, as well as the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we will move on to the decision-making process. The law is supported by most factions. The question is that we will be able to mobilize and be able to make a positive decision. So I'm asking for five minutes to mobilize the MP Corps so that we can make a positive decision. I now give the floor to Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u128	Thank you, but I didn't order a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u129	Next Bondar Mikhailo. Next Jurinac Oksana, Jurinec Oksana. All right, colleagues, we're done here. Now we have the closing word. Lechenko, one minute. Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u130	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would now like to act as a mayor elected in the one-maned district of Kiev, the central district of Shevchenkovsky in 223 districts. Every second or third time I meet with voters, the voters come up to me and say that there's an illegal hostel in their house that essentially destroys their quality of life that abuses them and that doesn't allow them to use their own homes properly. I'm not exaggeratingly saying it's really every second or third date. This plague, as it is now, spreads through Kiev and spreads throughout all major cities. Clearly, then, there is something to be done about it. Yes, there may be some imperfections in this bill that need to be corrected for the second reading, but leaving this issue at all without touching it is not possible, and this is in fact a continuation of this abuse against our citizens. So let's at least start this process at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. The speeches by the National Deputies have been completed. I'm reminding you that the deputies are to enter the hall. To the closing words of Shinkovic Andri Vasilovich. Is there a need in the closing word? None. Then please, Arthur Gerasimov, the final word. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. And please enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u132	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Today we have heard a lot of thoughts about supporting this law, because really whatever we say in this room, there is a real problem, and we have to solve it. And that's what this bill is all about, so that our citizens who live in multi-family homes don't get hurt in dangerous situations. This is the key thing, the key principle of this bill. But I also listened very carefully to all the speeches made by the national MPs who made comments to the bill. And as I said before, we're ready, we've already made a lot of notes, we've been talking to all the factions who've given these observations, and we're ready to prepare a coherent text of the bill very clearly within the working group. In a harmonized text, I mean the right to second reading, with which this bill will be adopted by the committee during the preparation for second reading. This applies, first of all, once again, to the full guarantee that we allow the registration of any enterprise in housing, we don't have to touch that right, it's the protection of our entrepreneurs. This is also true when we say that those who own these premises, those who live or are registered in these premises can run their own business, I mean. This refers to all the comments of the Anti - Corruption Committee that we have heard today from Jehor Soboljev, which we will certainly consider in preparing for the second reading. Because the key question is, we need to solve the real social problem that exists in the state today. So, honourable colleagues, in summary, I would like to draw your attention to the problem that exists, the key principle of this bill, the key thing that it allows us to solve, is to increase the safety of our citizens. And so I ask you to support this bill on the basis of today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take up your jobs and prepare for your decision, colleagues. I want to consult with you right now. There's not one whole faction now, there's a committee meeting. Let's test the mobilisation capability, I'll put in a rating vote, colleagues. We have an objective situation right now in the hall. So I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. We can't lose this bill. And that's why it's important to mobilize everyone. Therefore, it is important that everyone participates in the vote, colleagues. I very much ask you to take up your jobs. And I place a rating vote on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in multi-family housing (5473). All factions expressed support. Please vote, please support the rating vote. Please take part in the vote and please support me, colleagues. Please let's vote, colleagues. [[13:25:51]] For 169 Colleagues, let's talk about how we should deal with this. What if I put it back on again? Colleagues, pay attention! Let's talk about it. We're in an objective situation where the committee's on its way, and the faction's coming. The Radical Party faction promised to be in the hall in 10 minutes. Colleagues, I want us to be able to consult with each other on this matter. Won't the Hall deny that I'll put it to a vote when the Radical Party returns and the committee returns? Will there be any objections, colleagues? This is the objective thing we are in. I mean, colleagues, I'll put it to lunch when there's mobilization in the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, there's a proposition for a second time, I'm going to put it, let's mobilize, there's also going to be ratings, there's going to be ratings. Is there a proposal in the room to vote in favour of the first? And, dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone who's in the room, it's a social theme, it's not a political theme. And now we can lose the bill only because we have a committee meeting at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to all the factions that voted, and I'm asking you to back up the proposal for re-reading, colleagues. Colleagues, can we support such an offer, colleagues? If we all mobilize, we can support, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm inviting the deputies into the hall. It's also going to be a rating, a re-reading proposal. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and I'm putting to the vote a draft of Law 5473 for re-reading. Colleagues, please support the 5473 vote for one more time. And please support everyone, colleagues. Please support everyone. Vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:29:21]] For 213 Colleagues, thank you for understanding. I think we can make a decision. Colleagues, please, please invite the deputies to the hall now. Everybody backs up. I'm on it. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 92, "National Front" – 57, "Resurrection Block" – 9, "self-help" – 14, "Radical Party" – 2, "Fatherhood" – 9, "Resurrection Party" – 9 and "Will of the People" – 3. We lacked a few votes. I address all factions. Please vote in full terms, which is, for rereading the first reading, it will be a general position that will preserve the law. I'm asking you, colleagues, let's concentrate. I'm going to re-evaluate the rating, re-read it to the committee. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, 30 seconds, invite the deputies to the hall. They're coming in, we'll wait a minute. It's okay. We'll wait 30 seconds. It's worth keeping the bill. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, coming in. All right, let's vote, colleagues. Look, I'll explain again. The situation is objective. There is no tax and customs committee in the hall, there are 25 people, and there are no factions in the hall, there are 20 more. We have an objectively complex situation. So I ask everyone with understanding to address this situation and all to support the proposal for re-reading, colleagues. I ask you very much, everyone with such a request, to support the reiteration of the first reading. And I'm once again putting the ratings vote on re-reading, colleagues, and I'm asking you to support everyone. Please, colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[13:32:06]] For 219 Six votes. Colleagues, I'm calling, the Radical Party is still in session. Colleagues, the Radical Party supports this bill. Colleagues, I'll do it again in the entire understanding room so that we can vote when the committee and the faction return, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asking for your support. Is there such support in the hall? I'm going to put this bill today, but when there's a mobilization full of MPs in the room. So this bill is not finished, and I'm going to put a motion for a vote when the Radical Party and Nina Petrovna's committee return to the hall. Colleagues, now we're moving on to the next question of the agenda, this is the question that Yuri Sukhevitch insisted on yesterday, this is the question of the decision on the deviation, the decision on the deviation, I think we can look at them now. This is the first 3153-P. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2016 on the adoption as a whole of the law of Bill Nomre 3153. These are provisions for deviations that do not need to be included in the agenda, colleagues do not need to be included. And yesterday, on the Conciliation Council, the question was raised that they should be considered so that the laws could take effect, these were the motions for an annulment. I said I'd make other decisions, colleagues. Now there's a national MP, Levchenko, head of the Pinzenick Committee. Now, colleagues, we're going to define which one of the choices we're going to make. Colleagues, there is no author of Musak Alexi Petrovich's decision to deviate. And, colleagues, we need it now. I'm communicating general logic. Colleagues, pay attention! Now we have a situation where we are. There's still a committee sitting on the next bill, yes. We, the author of the rejection decree, are not currently in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next decision. And I have a single offer. Andry Volodymyrovich, I have a single offer: colleagues, attention! – transfer the draft Law 4666, which follows the budget issues, now to be considered. If there's such support to the hall, we'll move it if we don't, I'll have to call it a break, colleagues. Colleagues, that's it. Colleagues, please concentrate. We now have a proposal that 4666, a draft of the Society Law with limited and additional responsibility, should be followed. By noon, we've moved on now and now we've considered. I am convinced by the drafters of the bill that there is full support for the entire room and that we will be able to look at it now. If that support really is, we're going to go over it, if there's no such support, I'm going to have to call it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm just going to ask you to make an offer to consider it now. So once again, I'm going to put a proposal to the vote: a draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibility Society Act, 4666, which stands after lunch, to be moved to the table for now. It is completely ready to be considered. It's ready for consideration, there's a committee. If there's room will, we'll move on to his consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right. If there are no votes, we will not cross. You're ready, aren't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for draft Law 4666 to be put to the table right now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4666, please vote, please support. Please. [[13:39:32]] For 193 Colleagues, there are no votes to make decisions. And, dear colleagues, since we don't have the author of the next decision to consider right now, I'm calling a break under the Rules by 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll move on to budgetary issues, and I'm asking all national deputies at 16 o'clock to arrive in a disciplined hall to continue our work, my colleague. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4 p.m., we'll move on to budget issues.
