ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the hall, take your seats. We will begin the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear fellow national deputies, we approved one but important law yesterday. In fact, 100 percent of us have implemented a visa-free regime plan for decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think that after the NAMC decision that can take place today, we're going to talk about the 100 percent implementation of the plan of action for the introduction of a visa-free regime and the creation of quality conditions for fighting corruption. At the same time, dear colleagues, yesterday we did not find the necessary solution for the $1.5 billion to be directed to the benefit of Ukrainian citizens and the state. There are differences of opinion about the law that is supported. So at 12 o'clock today, I remind you, with faction leaders, the committee. We will hold a conciliatory meeting to determine the substance of the law, what decisions must be taken, what decisions should be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in order to get out on Thursday with the agreed position and continue our work. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the very important decisions we have to make with you. Nor do we create obstacles so that we can consider the laws that the state and people are now awaiting. We have 30 minutes today, Wednesday, of speeches by the national deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules of Work. After registering the National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall, we'll start recording the performance. Please, fellow nationals! Prepare to register. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:06:03]] Dear colleagues, 334 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please ask the National Deputies to prepare for the registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, we're getting ready. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Before giving the floor to the national deputy Yvchenko, I would like to welcome the national deputies of Ukraine with their birthdays, our colleagues: Valery Davidenka, congratulations, dear colleague, birthday and Alexi Kirichenko. [[Congrats]] Welcome to your birthday, too, dear colleague. [[Applause]] Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, you know, there was a very important event yesterday. Yesterday, all agrarian associations unitedly went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They held a large village party, where they directly made demands, demands on the Supreme Council and the government. Some of the posters are already hanging in the hall. They say, "No, anti-Selian government." Today, agrarians have made decisions, and the demands are directed to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the head of the government, and to every national MP. They are now decisively opposed to the earth’s market. What Mr. Yatsenuk is proposing today is shameful, because we have a moratorium, and because the association of agrarian orientation is definitely against everyone. Everyone against the land market. And these million hectares that Mr. Yatsenuk is talking about, it's just anti-national, anti-Selian, and the main thing is illegal. Next. And didn't you and I work with you a year ago to build a normal tax system for every crop, for a small one, for an average one, for a processor and for a large one. Yes, no, for the big ones we gave export VAT and made it richer, and for the small ones we collected everything, we collected it for the last tax. They offer us today to concentrate and adopt some laws that are also written on posters. This is the Law (3851-1) on the Return of Tax Taxation and on the Automatic Reparation of VAT on an Automatic Register, so that everyone can see who is being compensated and how much, and when. And the next. We already have a policy to make with you really for peasants, we have to put into an organized market the sale of agricultural products, one-person agriculture or, so-called, family farms. We have to give them the status of a farmer. When we can give them status, we can get both state support and donor funds there. And we need to make sure that this powerful family farm does not produce 93 percent of agricultural products in the agricultural system, but, as in Poland, 65 percent of the earnings coming from Poland give a million 600 family farms. And that's rural politics. It's a policy aimed at every peasant. Once again, I want to say the requirements of agriculture: the peasant government. An anti-Selian government! Do not open the land market and adopt the two bills they are asking for today. And the main thing is to make a farm development strategy, to support singles and family farms. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u3	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u4	the main task of the next government next year. The Fatherland faction will support the agrarians and will support the village night with its demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u5	The People’s Deputy of Anointed Ones. Yuri Bereza, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! You know, when I came to this room, my main dream was and remains a dream is the end of the war in the east. Who does not understand in this country that the end of the war in the East will be linked only to the restructuring and creation of the Ukrainian army? And that's why it's very sad to see what's going on in this room right now: how we're going; how we vote for the laws that are necessary for today's state; how we talk about how we love the Ukrainian people, and at the same time the laws that are necessary, we push "in the long drawer." I'm still talking to coalition colleagues who are now voting in unison and doing everything they can to make sure that the law that is too necessary to the Ukrainian army is too necessary for the re-arms, the re-arms of the army, it doesn't vote. You know, I also have a reference to the Environment and to the opposition government. You know, if I were the Attorney-General, you'd be holding your meetings at the Lukyanowski S.I.A., I'd guarantee you that. And when you start talking about how you love the people who are now bombing and shooting Russian invaders, you know, it's not even funny, it's a pharisacy. I call upon all members of the coalition, all concerned, all those who did not vote in favour of the January 16 laws that fought civil war in Kiev. I call for leadership, Law 4057 of the Supreme Council needs to be voted on. It's a question of survival on today's day of our army, it's a question of survival of the Ukrainian state. No one will bring peace to our land, only we, a strong army, a strong nation, will be able to defeat the invader. And so once again, I ask the honourable leaders of the Supreme Council to lay down the law and vote on Thursday. In the absence of this law, the People's Front faction guarantees that this rostrum will be blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u7	Please, National Deputy Sisoyenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it is good to see you in good health and I wish you all would not be sick. Because the situation in our state and municipal hospitals is getting worse every day. Dear colleagues! Do you not find it surprising that during the year and a half of our work in Parliament with you, we have hardly passed any laws on health - care changes? For the next time, there is no medical bill in order of the day. And I don't know how we can continue to talk to you about any changes, about a change in corruption, about a change in the economy, about a visa-free regime, without taking a change in the mainstream, about a change in medicine. For many years there have been bills passed by the Health Committee waiting for them to be brought to the Supreme Council for consideration. A bill on the autonomy of medical institutions that allows medical institutions to determine and use funds on their own according to the needs of hospitals. This bill of autonomy was the first step that countries in the post-Radians region have taken, and only Ukraine can take this step for 24 years. A lot of people in our Ukraine who can't be cured, and it's these people who need some organ transplants. People are forced to go abroad in our country, and you know why? Because there's nothing we can do about it. At the same time, the draft law on transplantation has long been registered with the Supreme Council, has been reviewed by the profile committee, and is waiting for it to finally appear in the hall to be voted on with you. In the near future, we are simply obliged to adopt bills with you, which are also ready for consideration, for second reading, are bills to increase wages for medical workers, especially for emergency health workers. People who save the lives of Ukrainians every day are working in terrible conditions today, they don't have drugs, they don't have vaccines, they don't have proper equipment. At the same time, the average salary of doctors today is 2.5 thousand dollars, and they work in beggary conditions. And if you and I don't get the medical bills soon, people in white robes will leave their operating rooms and come to the walls of Parliament. So I'm very counting, Vladimir Borisovich, on the fact that, in the near future, the main medical laws will be laid down in the next plenary week. And the self-help faction insists on their urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u9	Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, perhaps there is no national deputy in this sessionary room who has ever approached me as one of the representatives of the humanitarian subgroup in Minsk, asking to know about the fate of our missing heroes and our hostages. And actually, the question of freeing the hostages is on the permanent personal control of the President of Ukraine. And I want to inform you of the good news. Yesterday, thanks to the joint efforts of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Defence and the humanitarian subgroup in Minsk, we were able to free three real Ukrainian heroes, people who had been in captivity for over a year with serious injuries. This is Zavizion Grigory, Jaroshevich Peter and Petrenko Vadim, two of our military and one civilian. I'm asking you to applaud their heroism, their wives, their mothers, their beloved women, who were waiting for their beloved husbands. Similarly yesterday, the president of Ukraine held an extremely important meeting with the lawyers of Nadia Savichenko, where he informed them about everyone. coordinate the efforts of the Ukrainian authorities to free Hope and all other hostages held by the Kremlin. We believe that the implementation of the sixth paragraph of the Minsk Accords is the release of all the hostages -- freedom for the 124 citizens of Ukraine who are currently being held by fighters -- civilians and military, and Ukrainians who are being held in the prisons of the Russian Federation. And that's what the Ukrainian authorities insist on. I want to tell you that negotiations on the release of hostages are extremely difficult, and to urge each of you not to speculate on these delicate subjects, given how this might affect the families of the hostages. The same is true today in order to start a real search for the missing. To this end, the Ukrainian authorities are seeking the admission of the International Committee of the Red Cross to occupied territories by the President of Ukraine, since there are 693 people on the missing persons list today. It's both civilian and military, and it's our job to find them. The next, difficult one, is the round of negotiations on the release of hostages will take place on March 23, in Minsk, when all the groups work there again. And I want to say, dear colleagues, that we have constant contact with the President and his direct directives to us that all Ukrainian hostages should be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u11	Please, National Deputy Igor Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u12	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. So I have an address for the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko. "Petro Alexiyovich, it's been a month, and I'll inform you as Ukrainian national deputy of the work of Mr. Gunczyk's district administration, which you don't want to resign in principle." 10.03 this year. The National Police website, I read, "Instead of the iron concrete structures, the subcontractors used sea metal containers, which were much cheaper, but they didn't specify it in the official documents." And it goes on to say, "Volinska ODA, its subordinate structures are suspected of washing seven million bracelets on the construction of fortification buildings in the Donetsk region." Peter Alexiyovich, I ask you personally, I have addressed the prosecutor, the chief. The Head of the Bureau and the Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will take over the matter personally. In the course of criminal conduct, seven million dollars are suspected of being washed away at the construction of fortification facilities at the direct request of the head of the district administration and the appropriate professional administrations. O.D.A. It's a disgrace! If these facts prove to be true and are generally true today, you should look intently at the work of the head of the district administration. That's the first one. The other one. In the area of the brothel. A few days ago, the head is active! – Mr. Kingchuk of the Shack district administration made a statement that he did not trust the head of the district administration. So in your own structures, your appointed head of the district administration expressed mistrust to the head of the district administration. And again, what we're talking about is the famous Prime Minister Flora, who rents land in the Scottish region and refuses to pay for the rent of this land. Regrettably, the head of the Reich administration says, the head of the district administration does not deal with this issue, but avoids these issues. There's a reasonable suspicion that he's covering up this structure. I've already turned to this rostrum for this. And the last. Peter Alexiyovich, in the Volinsk region, except for Manevicki district, where illegal amber production continues, the fever passes to other areas. They're starting to dig in the Shack district, Starovyszovsky. Where is the head of the administration, who should be here among us, to inform law enforcement about their inaction and order in this area? I urge you to release Vladimir's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u13	Please, Anton Kisse. It's a rebirth party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, dear voters! Anton Kisse, 142nd Electoral District, South Odessa District, Ukrainian Bessarabia. Today, only the lazy one does not say that the roads need to be repaired. In recent times, the sun has emerged, and it has been reported that a technique has emerged for the restoration of road cover in Ukraine as a whole. But I would like to share with you and draw attention to the implementation of our law, which was passed here in Parliament, relating to the transfer of customs fees to Odessa Region, Odessa Customs, Volyn Customs, Crnwick and Lviv. And we passed the relevant law last September. And how is this law being implemented? In an analysis of the situation in the past 2015, Odessa-Reni Road Recovery Area was specified to have received a zero in the tenths. And Odessa Regional Council deputies invited the Customs Chief to find out why it happened, that in other areas overrun, and here at all, zero. From the information we received, all the arrows were transferred to the State Customs or Fiscal Service. And unfortunately, there is no answer. Thank God, we've been on a mission for two months. But when I go to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the financial services of Ukraine, I want an answer, however, why the Odessa Region has not received a penny in that year, and the rest of the areas, I am glad that they have received enough funding, somewhere perhaps 700 million bracelets. Today's revitalization is on its way. Statement by the Governor of the Odessa Region, a statement by the Cabinet of Ministers that money is allocated to the fateful road, which has been destroyed by almost 100 per cent. We would very much like a meeting to be held in our area and it is clear what amount of money is allocated to these roads, what deadlines are being met, what tenders have been made, and what companies will carry out these activities. I would like to remind you that it is an initiative to enact a law on the expulsion of customs officers. on the re-implementation of customs duties for those persons, 46,000 people in the southern Odessa region expressed their position and picked up the administration of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and then the law was born, and attention was drawn to the road. But other than "pay attention" to add something. Dear friends! Especially those services that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u15	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u16	The department responsible for road construction is particularly concerned. I'm asking for a boost. I pay attention to the district administration and certainly to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u17	Please, Kodola People's Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u18	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Today, I would like to draw attention to a serious problem involving people with chronic kidney disease, who are in our care for about half a million people. Five thousand of them are on replacement kidney therapy, called haemodialysis. On January 1, Ukraine had more than 90 centers of nephrology and dialysis, and the district and city centers of hemodialysis were overcrowded. There is not enough funding to help anyone who needs it. There are about 7 to 8,000 people in the unofficial queue for haemodialysis. And most of these people don't live up to their routine of receiving life - sustaining procedures, as you can get into the hemodialysis wards only when one of the patients who receive kidney replacement therapy dies. At the same time, our state spends record money -- over 1 billion dollars -- just to buy expensive materials for this procedure. And this is because only about 20 percent of people in need of hemodialysis have the opportunity to obtain this vital procedure at the expense of government funds. One of the main reasons for this state of affairs is the absolute monopoly on the haemodialysis market of several companies that actually took over and shared the market among themselves. If we analyze the market for state-owned hemodialysis materials, we can conclude that there is a so - called pharmaceutical mafia in Ukraine, which, without exaggeration, is involved in all purchases of medical supplies and medical supplies. In particular, in public procurement procedures for hemodialysis, 99 percent will win two groups of companies that just dictate to the state their prices, which I will point out are twice or three times higher than in European countries. That's why my fellow national deputies and I see here all the signs of multibillion-dollar corruption. People die because they cannot pay for the necessary treatment. And from the state, sales officials and the pharmaceutical mafia are essentially sucking all the juices out of government purchases. That is why I demand that the Antimonopoly Committee and the Ministry of Health stop violating existing legislation. Create a transparent competitive environment to ensure maximum budget economy. Today, at this very time, the Antimonopoly Committee has a round table where our colleagues are trying to find ways to solve this problem. I call on the Antimonopoly Committee to take a firm stand, investigate and eliminate violations of existing legislation. The appropriate appeals were sent to all anticorruption agencies, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Health. I think that by working together we will not allow ourselves to enjoy the health of our Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u19	Please, People's Deputy Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished people's deputies, I have very important and disturbing information at the same time. The country is experiencing a difficult process of decentralization of power, transfer of authority to the field and other vital reforms of public and local self-government. Today, the enemy has focused on breaking these changes. Russian special forces have launched a project of so-called economic autonomy in areas and even areas of Ukraine to discuss the current challenges of decentralization. My native Dneproperty became a site for the circulation of these new separatist technologies. There have already been repeated cases of so-called forums in the region, where the organizers have deceived individual citizens, public organizations and even schoolchildren and students, and even some local council members. In doing so, the President of the Crinican District Council of the Dnepropetrov region, Ms. Cobzar, has signed an alleged appeal from the entire MP for the support of the economic autonomy of the region. I will say objectively, the relevant Ukrainian State security authorities have drawn attention to this unconditional real threat to territorial integrity and State sovereignty, and do not let the problem go to waste, but this problem has been suppressed, but only suppressed, not completely extinguished. I am now addressing the management of the BSS, the Attorney-General's Office, in order to prevent this problem from going on its own. Friends, it's not a hunch, it's not going to work itself, it's not going to solve itself. This case shouldn't fall into bureaucratic dust, as it has been many times. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Security Service must provide the most rigorous legal assessment of both these events and those behind them. Dear colleagues, there is very disturbing information that the practice of holding such forums is also supported directly in other areas, and it is the Lviv, Herson and Zakarpat oblasts. Forums are being held to support the idea of economic autonomy in the region. Such activities are the most widely publicized in Russian media, which give rise to the idea that economic autonomy is supposed to have support among the population of Ukraine. Why do such meetings become possible? Who specifically coordinates the implementation of so-called autonomys in Ukraine? What measures are being taken to prevent this scenario? I appeal to the Ukrainian Security Service and demand that immediate action be taken against the organizers and participants of this autonomous economic bargain. I appeal to the local councils at all levels with a proposal for a time and for all time to make a point on this issue, and it is necessary to condemn any attempt to delay the approval of such projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u21	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u22	The Russian script on the division of Ukraine will not go through the separation of our country. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u23	Please, Mikola Princely, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've seen on the Internet the appeal of the actors of the Ivano-Frankov Theatre about the power of Russian product not only on our television screens, but also on our stage. Not long ago, the actors of this theater, along with the actors of the Golden Gate Theatre, put on a brilliant play based on motives. The play by the Lviv playwright Arieu, called "Glory of the Hero". As to how two Ukrainians, one who fought in the Red Army, the other who fought in the UPA find themselves in one hospital room and together suffer from corruption and the situation in our country. This play is located in Kiev on a small theater site called the Golden Gates. Instead, in the Yellow Palace, where we all experienced the bloody and terrible events of Maidan, Russian anteprises with actors who called for the destruction of the territorial integrity of our country and where Ukrainian actors cannot go. The same situation continues in the Ukrainian cinema, where, despite our bill, which should limit the presence of Russian actors who called for a violation of the country's territorial integrity, however, these films and shows continue to appear on Ukrainian screens. It seems to me that we forget that we live in conditions of war. We forget those people who died in Maidan and those who continue to die in the east. We will never build or revive Ukrainian culture if we continue to push forward such bills that continue to be pushed into our parliament. When trying to produce a Russian product under the European product, they try to force cable networks to broadcast channels that broadcast movies and TV series about NCS. We have to put it on this drop. So what I'm saying is that we're about to announce the creation of an interfractional "Inventory" group that will stand for a democratically independent Ukraine and that will uphold the principles of depopulation. And that only by unifying Ukraine to be freed mentally and to liberate the occupied territories will we be able to build a normal European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u25	Please, Anatoly Shipko's Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u26	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nicopol city, Ordjonikidze district. Dear national MPs and dear voters! A great fast has begun, and right now it is time to reflect on and reject unnecessary emotions and accusations, exercise patience (especially politics), and concern. Perhaps God will bless our suffering country during this difficult time. But the question is, How much of our own interests and ambition can we put ahead of the interests of the Ukrainian people? There are a lot of problems in the country, and there are three weeks of talk: Sadowy, Yatzenyuk, or Jaresko. Did anyone mention people in the last three weeks? And how they survive at this very time. I spent that time in my district, talking to people. The problem is mass: people can't buy medicine and treat hospitals, they can't pay for the HKG, agrarians have no support, and small and medium-sized businesses are dying, and that's the basis of our state. And the main thing. This is not a single person's problem, this is true of several regions of our country. March 25 will be forbidden to pass through Dam No. 8 of the Kakhov watershed, which is a road through three areas: Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik and Kirovogradski. Circumstances. A mile and a half of a mile [3.8 km] will be possible only if you travel 120 km [120 km]. The situation in the dam is described as perhaps an extraordinary situation of a technological nature, as a result of hydrodynamic accidents, and as a result of the break-up of a dam with a wave of breakthroughs and catastrophic flooding. And the only thing that can save her from a breakthrough is urgent capital repair. And I've been talking about this for a year and a half. After the mass of letters, appeals, meetings, a meeting at a higher level, the officials succeeded only in banning the passage to the dam. And that's it. It's just a slow bomb, it's not the answer. Colleagues, on Monday, the Cabinet approved a mandate of 154 on the allocation of public budget expenditure for the development of the 2016 road maintenance network. But what was the principle of choosing faulty areas of the road? Why wasn't the emergency section of the N-23 area, which runs through the Kahov watershed dam, included in this list? Although he said so and personally assured you, Arsenius Petrovich. The government wants to see a breakthrough? And if we break through, tens of thousands of people will be homeless. I'm even afraid to talk about possible losses. For days we honored the memory of the victims of the Kureniv tragedy. I don't want to compare and I don't even want to think about what might happen. Now, without emotion, I am simply inviting members of the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of Nicopolska to attend an extraordinary meeting at Dam 8. After the meeting, come to the villages and cities that will be sunk out of your goodwill. I demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine in particular intervene in this matter immediately. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u27	The last performance is Andrew Lozov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u28	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The whole country is shocked to see what's going on with illegal amber mining in Zitomirsk, Volin, and my home country. But, love God’s truth, the time has come to say in this room, who is to blame, and what should we do next? First. April 26th last year - soon a year! – a bill was passed with Borislav Rosenblat and other co-authors on implementation, mining. Manufacturing and implementation of amber. So far, the law is not adopted in a second reading that stimulates illegal production. Shame! – quite right colleague Eutuszek says. The second reason for all of this was that when a minimum of half a billion dollars were stolen each year from the Ukrainian people, the illegal production of solar stone was a problem in power, in power structures, and in executive power. In particular, in the Plains yesterday, journalist Dmitri Leontiyuk made it absolutely clear by experimental reporting on the involvement of so-called law enforcement agencies, the so-called National Police, and illegal amber production in the Plains. Everyone knows what's driving this c.o. Head of the Police in the province of Ravenna, Sergey Maximov. And I would like to address the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov with a request to finally release the villain in Maximov's pursuit, who is defaming the reform of the Police itself as a phenomenon. The second woe is the executive power. In the Plains, amber mafia has two offices: one, in fact, in the National Police, the other, in the State Department. Here's a statement from the Single State Register. Timchenko Alexander Anatoliyovich, the founder's address: Kyivska oblast, Kyivovo-Svjetošin district, village of Petrovsk, resides. He is the assistant governor of Equine Vitali Chugunikov. It is for this company that Chugunnikov tries to steal 35,000 acres [35,000 ha] of flat land, rich in amber. After the initiative of the head, the legal, Ravenna District Council of the Radical Party of Vladimir Kowalczuk, the district council failed to steal 35,000 hectares of amber land, Chugunnik's bribe of deputies from Freedom, by bribing individual MPs from Fatherland, particularly the heads of the district organization of this Mikoli Kucheruk party, was illegally sent to the head of the Kovalczuk District Council. It's revenge on the bourgeois mob, and it's a matter of honor for us to overcome them, otherwise it's a disgrace to all of us. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u29	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, before we move on to the agenda, came a statement from two factions on the announcement of recess and a request to replace, in accordance with the Rules, the three-minute speech by Oleg Laska. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today, March 16 is the second anniversary of the so-called Crimean referendum, which has become the legal basis for joining our Crimea in the Russian Federation. It is clear to the world that this referendum was illegal and that it was also illegal to divert Crimea from Ukraine. But has the Ukrainian authorities done enough over the past two years to return Crimea and protect our home country? I firmly believe not. We did not fight for Crimea, unfortunately, without a single shot. And we remember the public documents of the Security and Defence Council meeting, where we were called upon to be "peace pigeons" and not to produce any tanks and no weapons to protect the country's homeland. So I think that if we had made every effort two years ago to protect the Crimea, there would be no war on Donbas today, there would be thousands and thousands of deaths that Ukraine is carrying today. I turn to the Ukrainian politics, to your responsibility to the historic moment of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Assistant Secretary of State of the United States, Victoria Nuland, stated that the United States and the International Monetary Fund, have stopped funding programs for Ukraine to overcome political instability. Putin's statement about the withdrawal of Russian troops from Syria threatens to reinvigorate active hostilities in Donbas, Merkel's loss at the local elections in Germany due to the refugee crisis shows instability in the European Union. The recent decision by the European Union on the five principles of the European Union is not one of the main principles of restoring the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. So we see that the external conjuncture for Ukraine is extremely unfavorable. And if we take it that some of the European Union countries are asking the question of not continuing sanctions against Russia, which are due in June-months, and if we take it that we don't have new markets instead of lost Russian, that means that Ukraine is facing huge external threats. And how do we face these external threats: internal strife, opposition, strife, and ambitions of politicians. As a result, by the early 20th century, we had lost the Ukrainian state. Today, we face the same loss of the threat of Ukrainian statehood if we do not unite if we do not put aside our own ambitions for the sake of the country. We have to fight each other, we have to fight the enemy, we have to create a new coalition, a new government and a new agenda of action to radically raise the standard of living of citizens in order to protect the country. A radical party calls for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first question is the decision (registration number 0091). 0091 is a draft of the Ratification Act, I'm sorry. Draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards No. 102. Please report to the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenko. Dear colleagues, the author's proposal is for the ratification law to be considered under a reduced procedure. Please support the proposal, please vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Attention, colleagues! Ratification Act. I see. [[10:48:00]] For 132 Dear colleagues, the proposal to consider the draft Law on Ratification under Short Procedure. Take your seats, colleagues. Please vote. Short procedure for consideration of the Ratification Act. [[10:48:37]] For-149 Please make an offer. Be careful! Please. [[10:49:01]] For-163 I'm looking at how much we go around the hall to give every bicycle that produces electricity, we could light up half-Kiev. Please report, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For 15 years, Ukraine is discussing the need for ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security, the 102nd Convention, which was adopted at the 35th session of the ILO General Conference on 28 June 1952 in Geneva. For 15 years, Ukraine had gone so far as to make a commitment to the necessary social protection for the population. And I am pleased that the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, has addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the need to ratify this convention. Because the convention regulates a wide range of issues, the convention sets minimum requirements for the coverage of workers, health care, the protection and social security of their families, the population as a whole, and sets the minimum level of assistance and insurance payments for types of assistance. Of course, the economic situation of the State requires an immediate transformation of the social protection system. And the ratification of this Convention, by setting minimum social standards, makes it possible to rely on international experience on this issue. According to paragraph (b) of the Convention, Ukraine is committed to the following chapters of the Convention: Medical Services, Aid for Diseases, Unemployment Assistance, Age Assistance, Labour Disability Assistance, Family Assistance, Assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u34	"According to pregnancy and childbirth," "Disability assistance" and "According to the loss of work." I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consolidate and vote in favour of this extremely important one. Social Charter, a social document that will form the basis for ensuring the social rights of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The report is by Irina Lucenko. Please, Irina Stepanovna. The report is the head of the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On 14 March, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had before it the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards No. 102, which had been tabled by the President of Ukraine and had approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law should be adopted on the basis and as a whole. The implementation of the Convention will contribute to the implementation of Ukrainian social security legislation in line with international standards, such as the International Labour Organization. In addition, the becoming effective of the Convention will contribute to the creation of preconditions for Ukraine's accession to the European Social Security Code as a whole. According to an explanatory note to the bill signed by the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenk, the implementation of the bill does not require any additional expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. Participation in the convention does not provide for any contributions and other regular payments. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object to the ratification of this convention. So I ask you, on behalf of the Committee, to support the decision and ratify the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards No. 102. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Please, Olena Sotnik, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! In fact, this convention was adopted at the age of sixty. Only today will we ratify it in Ukraine. But I would like to point out that this is a very big responsibility, a special responsibility for the government. Because this convention introduces a very large number of such standards that we have to introduce, including in our existing legislation. I'm asking the Minister very much. Because these standards, they need extra calculations. And we need to be very careful. We're not just ratifying the convention. We take this as a commitment. This becomes part of our national legislation. And in fact, what the Ministry of Social Policy concludes is that this ratification doesn't need any extra expenses, it doesn't exactly fit the reality. There is a great deal of commitment both to health care and to social standards of medical care. So I ask very much not just to leave it out, but if we make these commitments, we will do them in front of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u40	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, we must certainly support the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards. But in addition, we have in Ukraine to really guarantee these social security standards. Look what's happening to us today. The statutory subsistence minimum is 1,330 dollars. Show that man in the country who can survive for 1,330 bucks? If he does not have relatives, he is condemned to death in general. In doing so, the Ministry of Social Security acknowledges that the real subsistence minimum is at least 2,500 dollars per month at January 2016 prices per person. This is totally inconvenient. At the same time, respectable colleagues, the government has just increased its electricity tariffs by 25 percent in March and plans to raise its gas tariffs by 53 percent in April. It's totally unacceptable, it doesn't match any European practice. I'm pointing out to you that today, in the income of Ukrainians, subsidies, other social benefits make up more than a third. So the government wants to do it consciously or subconsciously, but they're turning Ukraine into a nation of dependants. Isn't it time today to raise social standards at the same time, reduce tax pressure to get the economy out of the shadows? Is it not now time to introduce direct budget funding for pensions in Ukraine, to get rid of the surplus of the Pension Fund? Two billion dollars only goes to the administration. But it would be better for those 2 billion dollars to give to pensioners, that would be 200 dollars per year extra to retirees if they financed pensions directly at the expense of the state budget. Today's Retirement Grants.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u41	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u42	Today, the pension fund’s grants account for 56 per cent of the budget, i.e. not the EU’s pension, but the budget. So let's go completely to budget funding, let's save 2 billion dollars and turn to higher pensions. Well, and certainly industrial development, creating new jobs and increasing productivity. In this way, the Pension Fund is filled, not by increasing retirement age or reducing social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nasalik Igor, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u44	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear friends, there is hope that today Parliament will work, not contradict the pants, as it opposed conscientiously yesterday. Obviously, in support of the ratification of the Convention, it is necessary and, of course, there is no objection. But as in every district, I have the voice of the people, and I have this Basil Mikolaiovich Zanik who asked me a question and I couldn't answer it. That's why I'm addressing Reverend Paul Rosenck. Here, prepare a minimum consumer basket, increase it. And this increase predicts that now the apples are going to consume 2 grams more than they've eaten before. Correct or confirm this information, Sir Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u46	Hello, citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. Of course, the opposition bloc will support the ratification of this international agreement on minimum social security standards. However, we would like to note the system of our work, and we are talking about ratification of international agreements that took more than 15 years, as previous speakers have told us, but we are not talking about the adoption of the Ukrainian Labour Code. This is a document that has long been adopted since we are talking about attracting investment, but we do not create conditions for investors to balance the relationship between employees and employers. I would also like to refer to the list of bills that we are currently considering. Does this list of bills meet the challenges facing our country? Obviously not. In addition to the political crisis, we have a deep economic crisis: the State and society exist in parallel, the State does not guarantee the right to social protection, the State obviously does not ensure the right to an adequate standard of living provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution, article 48. It was said that housing and utility tariffs were rising. It was very good to use opposition rhetoric after they had voted in favour of those laws. And have you not delegated to the Government the head of the National Bank for the signing of a credit agreement? There are no secrets: raising tariffs is an integral part of the implementation of credit agreements that you have signed. It is therefore necessary to review the bills voted by each faction that are here in the plenary room before hitting on the opponent's shirt. Please support this international agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u48	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Clearly, this document needs to be ratified. Moreover, Ukraine is very easy to make international commitments because it is not fulfilling them. What's to say about conventions if we don't have the Constitution. I propose in favour of this bill, Your Honor Head, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should submit to the Supreme Council an updated subsistence minimum, minimum wage, and a new budget for the consumer basket. You can't live on 173 grams of bread a day, a glass of milk, a half-breed and two small potatoes, and 7 grams of rice, and if you still have money, you can buy about 100 grams of meat. And this is simply the abuse of people, especially since we make international commitments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, let's get ready. From the non-factions, Mikhail Golovko. We're getting ready to vote, colleagues, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our political power will support this ratification, but we would like to point out that the actions of the government that have set such standards today for minimum consumption, minimum wage and minimum wage, have virtually driven our people beyond poverty. Nearly 80 percent of Ukrainians now, according to the United Nations, are outside the poverty line — less than $5 per day if a person earns money. And so, of course, we see that there is no reform, no fight against corruption, no return from the shadow economy that's over 60 percent occupied, and that's what's causing the Ukrainians to start saving by practically announcing genocide to our people. If we don't radically change social standards now, if we don't raise our population, it's going to be a real challenge for our nation. So we have to do everything we can to eliminate this government, the government of criminals, the government of corrupters who abuse their own people and then raise them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u51	Dear fellow national MPs, let's go to the vote. The discussion is over. Please take your seats. Draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards No. 102, registration number of draft law 0091, introduced by the President of Ukraine. In line with the committee’s conclusion, it is suggested that this draft law be adopted on a basis and in general. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please vote on the basis and in total, 0091 draft law on ratification, please vote, vote. [[11:05:06]] For 253 253 – Law adopted. Thank you. Let's move on. The registration number of draft law 0094 is on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on mutual administrative assistance in the prevention, investigation and cessation of customs offences. Reported the Head of the State Fiscal Service, Roman Nasirov. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please propose a simplified procedure, the Ratification Act. [[11:05:52]] For-167 Please report to Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on mutual administrative assistance in the prevention, investigation and cessation of customs offences, the project of which was developed by the Ukrainian side, establishes an effective contractual and legal mechanism for the organization of direct interaction between the customs authorities of Ukraine and Argentina. The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on Mutual Administrative Assistance for Preventing, Investigating and Stopping Customs Offences was developed by the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine with a view to carrying out the internal state procedures necessary to enter into force the relevant agreement. The provisions of this Agreement are based on the recommendations of the Customs Cooperation Council, the World Customs Organization, the provisions of the Convention of the World Customs Organization on the provision of administrative cooperation in the prevention, investigation and cessation of customs offences, this is the Nairobi Convention. Ukraine has already created conditions for the implementation of such an agreement. Yes, there are similar bilateral agreements with the neighbours of Ukraine, with the member states of the European Union and other states. Today, more than 45 such mutual assistance agreements have been signed in customs matters. The agreement with Argentina provides that the customs authorities of the two States are obliged to provide administrative assistance to each other in order to ensure payment of customs duties and to comply with the requirements of customs legislation. Thus, the adoption of that law would create legal grounds for the parties to exchange information from customs matters with a view to warning, investigating and ending customs offences. Everyone, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the foreign affairs of Svetlana Zalitschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u54	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Our Committee on Foreign Affairs on 14 March considered the President's bill 0094 on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on Mutual Administrative Assistance in the Prevention of Investigation and the Stopping of Customs Offences. In fact, the Agreement creates a contractual legal basis for the organization of cooperation between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic in the customs field. Ratification of the agreement will facilitate the exchange of information necessary to prevent the investigation and cessation of customs offences, as well as the development of international customs cooperation between Ukraine and Argentina. The relevant bill does not require additional expenditure from the budget and has a positive conclusion from the scientific administration. Our committee asks the Supreme Council to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u55	Thank you for the report. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for two, two for one, two for the other, please. Please, Alona Babak, Self Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u56	I'd like to give it to Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Argentina is certainly Ukraine's great partner in its trade. But we all know that most of the goods are imported into Ukraine from China. And it is Chinese goods that are the most undervalued in customs costs and inaccuracies. All requests sent by the State Fiscal Service to confirm the customs value of Chinese goods remain unanswered. I have the same doubts that the questions that will be sent to Argentina, Panama, the BV, other prominent trading partners in Ukraine will also be unanswered. So we will certainly vote in favour of ratifying this convention. But I have a question for the Minister of Finance as a minister answering from customs policy, to the Head of the Fiscal Service, sir, I am addressing you with a question. When will we properly implement relief conventions, including customs? When will an appropriate customs attaché institute be created to lobby your requests to foreign customs authorities to really get information about the customs value of goods rather than just ratifying the Supreme Council and doing a lot of paperwork without order on customs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on mutual administrative assistance in the prevention, investigation and cessation of customs offences by the Radical Party factions will be supported. But taking advantage of the opportunity that a rare guest is present in this room, our former colleague Roman Nasirov, who is now in charge of the State Fiscal Service, I have, as in millions of Ukrainian citizens, a very simple question to you, Mr. Romane. Where is the real reform of the tax service? Where is the real reform of customs? We're talking about the ratification of the treaty with Argentina, are you going to cover the gaps on our customs, on our borders with European countries? We're losing at least another Ukrainian budget. Because of the corruption schemes on customs, in taxes, when bribes are taken, when they take and wash VAT, when there is no transparent order of tax compensation for the added value, when all of this is regulated in manual mode, when we know the evoking facts of customs and tax abuse, I ask, how much time do you need to start a real tax and customs reform? Because the issue of tax stability, the transparency of customs and tax administrations, is crucial to the economic recovery of the country. Because when your service is being used today as a reprisal for the persecution of all living things that are still working, for abuse, for the destabilizing of the economic situation in the country, as a result, people lose their jobs, and as a result, there is no economic growth in Ukraine. The Radical Party requires decisive action by you to combat smuggling and the real reform of the Tax Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u60	People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich. Respectable colleagues will certainly support the opposition bloc faction's ratification of this international legal instrument on mutual assistance to prevent customs offences between the Ukrainian customs authorities and the Argentine Republic. I would like to point out, however, whether this ratification will help with the fundamental and qualitative reform of the customs tax system. It is unlikely that, in fact, smuggling has increased greatly. Smuggling is another non-application of related payments to budgets at all levels, especially to the State budget of Ukraine. I would like to point out justly that the reform of tax and customs legislation is not the prerogative of the State Fiscal Service. This is a systemic responsibility, as is the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and, of course, the State Fiscal Service, as an administrator who can make these proposals. Regrettably, I would like to note that no fundamental qualitative proposals for reforming tax legislation, even the mere lack of any strategic vision of reforming tax legislation, are currently lacking by the Government, both in the face of the Ministry of Finance and the State Fiscal Service. At this meeting of the Committee, we will only hear about the results of the Kiev Regional Customs Service, which will not be easy. I would like to point out the inadequate operation of the relevant customs services, the qualitatively low level of income in all budgets from customs procedures. At the same time, I would like to call for a coalition. You're saying you'll be carrying out tax reform. No tax reform has been carried out by you. What macroeconomic indicators are you going to live with this year? Since you will no longer receive credit in the first half of the year, how will you fill the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u62	Please, Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u63	Mr. Nasirov, we are. The "will of the people" group will normally support this initiative. But I have a personal question for you. You listen, because when Auntie Ostrikova asked you a question, you didn't listen at all. When requests are made by national deputies, do not send them, do not cancel. And when you say come and we'll give you the documents. Mr. Nasirov, are you listening or not? Mr. Nasirov! Are you listening or not? So when you have a parliamentary request, do not give formal answers. When you say come and we'll show you these documents, so your officials don't hide in the office like rats. Answer me, give me answers to those businesses that in the 10th month, like Mackey, Donetskkox, washed 32 million VAT. Give an answer to the money - laundering companies in Lugansk. And the 10th month is when the Opposition Block funded the election. Why don't you answer? Why are you not conducting appropriate investigations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u65	Sobolje, Fatherland. No doubt this is an important bill. But I would like to point out that there is a very important problem that is directly related to the use of genetically modified materials in the cultivation of agricultural products in Argentina. For us, it is very important not only to pay the price of goods, but also to note that according to the laws passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which should apply to products that are imported from any country. That is why it is a quality for us. The most important thing for our citizens to understand is that they consume in the form of wine or any other product, where there should be a clear mark of GMO markings, its contents on these foods or any other food used for food. And the second question. We're surprised at the position of the State Fiscal Service, which refuses to disclose information, as much as Metainvest has received VAT compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u66	20 seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u67	Because that's the answer to why individual factions refuse to support the resignation of the government, including the Opposition Block. Because how can the information relating to public finances - the payment of taxes and the compensation of taxes - be closed and secret? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would ask the head of the fiscal service to prepare answers to the national deputies according to their comments. And to provide an exhaustive answer to all the questions that have been asked, including businesses. Dear colleagues, we have completed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on mutual administrative assistance in the prevention, investigation and cessation of customs offences (registration 0094). In line with the Committee’s conclusion, there is a proposal to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Also, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has shown that this treaty can be ratified. Please take your seats, colleagues. We vote on the basis as a whole. Attention! [[11:19:47]] For the 250. The law has been ratified. The law was passed, to be precise. Please, Your Honor. Registration No. 0095 is a draft law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure for Communications. Report to the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenko, please. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law on ratification. Please be supportive. For a reduced voting procedure, please support. [[11:20:27]] For 171 Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the President of Ukraine is proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure for Messages signed on behalf of Ukraine in 2014. I want to say that this is one of the basic documents that protects and strengthens the rights of the child, especially in the countries that ratify this convention. In particular, the Protocol provides for the possibility for children or their representatives to submit to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child individual reports which state that they are, that children are victims of violations by this State party of any of the rights envisaged: the Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by the Supreme Council in 1991; the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography ratified in 2003 by Ukraine; and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the involvement of children in armed conflicts ratified in 2004. The main thing is that the Optional Protocol confirms and defines the status of a child as a subject of a right with dignity and the ability to develop, and recognizing that a special and dependent status of children can create real difficulties for them in the use of remedies if their rights are violated. In view of the complex situation created by the temporary occupation of part of Ukraine, the Optional Protocol is proposed to be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u70	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u71	The Optional Protocol is proposed to be approved with some clarification regarding the uncontrolled Ukrainian authorities in Ukraine where, unfortunately, children's rights are limited and how the Ukrainian authorities cannot guarantee the implementation of this Protocol. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u72	Thank you. Please. The report is John Klimpus-Cincadze's first deputy head in foreign affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered a draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure for Communications and unanimously recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill as a whole. As the Minister has said, the Optional Protocol provides for mechanisms for the referral of children or their representatives to the Committee on the Rights of the Child with individual claims of violations by the State party of their rights as provided for in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ukraine ratified the United Nations Convention on Human Rights in 1991, and in 2003 and 2005, respectively, the Ukrainian Parliament ratified two optional protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on Child Trafficking, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and on the involvement of children in armed conflict. Ukraine has actually carried out the internal procedures necessary for the dissemination in its territory of article 5 of the optional protocol on the scope of violations, within which individual or group reports are submitted to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. I would also like to point out that we are implementing this ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure for Messages, with a separate declaration of withdrawal from the fulfilment of our obligations in that territory which is illegally annexed and occupied, that is, the Crimea and the separate areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine. According to the explanatory note, the implementation of the provisions of the said Optional Protocol would not require additional costs from the State budget. Please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u75	Please vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Vitaly Seminovich Kurilo, "Peter Poshenko's Block." Please, Kurilo Vitali Seminovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Please pass the word to Pottery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u78	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Of course, we need to support this law, of course, we need to put points above "and" and say to the international community that unfortunately, there are annexed territories in Ukraine, occupied territories. And we should always remind ourselves of that. But I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that today is really two years of the so-called so-called "referendum" in Crimea. I was personally in a polling station called the "share," where Aksionov voted in the context of the FSB agents and told him in his face, with a Ukrainian flag in his hands, that he was a separatist and a scoundrel. But really, over the past two years, I think the Ukrainian Parliament could do more to get us back to our territories. In two years, the Ukrainian Parliament held no parliamentary hearings on the subject of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Yesterday, in the agenda, finally, from the initiative of our Creme Group, the Committee on State Building, Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, there was the question of the appointment, at last, of parliamentary hearings on the question of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol for inclusion in the agenda and voting, and so that we could hold these parliamentary hearings in April. Unfortunately, because of the fool we were doing in the hall yesterday, we didn't vote. I would like to address Vladimir Borissovich Groysman with a request, certainly tomorrow, especially on these days, when the whole world is paying attention to the second anniversary of the occupation of Crimea, putting this issue in order of the day, and all colleagues please vote and support, and hold the first parliamentary hearings in the temporarily occupied Crimea territory of the Ukrainian Council for these two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u80	Please, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u81	Good afternoon! Of course, our faction, I'm sure the whole Parliament will now support this convention, but I demand that the Minister observe these conventions. You and I have signed almost every convention possible to uphold children's rights for more than 24 years of our independence, but they break every day, every day. You and I have signed European charters that allow our children to be with their parents and parents to have free access to their children in resuscitations, with the exception of resuscitation procedures. So far in the country, the only hospital in Lviv still holds this convention, all the rest of the parents, and the children, of course, do not support their interests in hospitals at this time. We've been fighting with civil society activists and the Tablets Foundation for six months in these hospitals with the Ministry of Health, and I still get the answers that, for the Ministry of Health, it's often more important for the U.S.R.R.R. in 1978, that's what we're talking about. So far, from the ATO area, we have wounded children and injured people being evacuated by volunteers and public activists, we have no common evacuation protocol. I am very grateful to the Ministry of Defense and the Foreign Service for helping us regularly evacuate our wounded children. That's why I'm asking very much and I'm asking the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers to control and execute all our conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u82	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! A bill on ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the procedure for notification is under consideration. I would like to point out that the ratification of this instrument is indeed necessary, since our humane authority has first taken away social assistance without paying any social assistance to children by cutting off child support, provides legal mechanisms to refer this category of minors to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights. That is, they have the right to contact this international institution to find out that Ukraine has violated its commitments. Naturally, as the rapporteur said, there would be no public budget expenditure for this ratification. I would like to point out, however, that this protocol is ratified with a reservation on uncontrolled territories. Regrettably, I wish to point out that, even in the controlled territories, the State has not fulfilled its social protection and social security obligations, in particular those of children who have the status of internally displaced persons. Since the relevant State Budget Act, which was voted by the majority of members of the coalition, also includes factions that are not part of a coalition that is suspended prior to the ATO, article 1 of the State Guarantees Act, is located in the provisionally occupied territories. That is, even those who have moved to a controlled territory have unilaterally refused to pay pensions, scholarships and other forms of social security. I would like to point out that the faction of the Opposition Unit has addressed the Constitutional Court, both in view of the unconstitutional withdrawal of assistance at the birth of the child and the unconstitutionality of the provision of the Act, which violates the rights of internally displaced persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is concluded, Your Honor. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, 0095 is a draft law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure for Messages. The discussion is over. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, there is a proposal to accept as a whole. The conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration: support. Please vote in general. Take your seats, colleagues. 0095 is the basis and the whole. Vote. [[11:33:39]] For 244 The law's been passed. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft law (registration number 0092), draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of the German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce. Please report to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Mikolska Natalija Jaroslavovna. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the rapporteur to report on the reduced procedure of the law. Please support, we need 150 votes. Short-term procedure, please support. Short-term review, please support. [[11:34:31]] For a hundred and Decision adopted, 159. Please report to the Mikolska Natalija Jaroslavna Deputy Minister. Please report to Natalia Jaroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u85	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The bill provides for the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of the German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce in Berlin on 23 October 2015. I wanted to point out that there is no need to explain the importance of developing trade relations between our country and Germany. But let me give you a few facts so that we can understand the importance of the agreement. In 2015, the volume of bilateral trade between Ukraine and Germany amounted to about $6.2 billion. Germany is our third trading partner in exports and the first trading partner in the European Union. Germany also joins the three investment leaders in Ukraine, and about 4,000 German investment companies are registered in Ukraine. The main purpose of this agreement is to establish a German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine to replace the current Bureau of the German Chamber of Commerce. The adoption of the law is a prerequisite for entering into the operation of the agreement and for initiating the operation of the chamber. This is a very important step for us, because it means, firstly, that we are on Germany's priority radar; secondly, that we will have a stronger trade-economic relationship because the institutional component will increase and formalize Ukraine's recognition as an important trading partner and make it easier for the representatives of the German Chamber to work in Ukraine. I have to say that Germany is rightly called our strategic economic partner, and that is why, right now, after the successful forum of ours in Germany, it is very important to ratify the next step.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u87	Ratify the agreement and establish a Chamber in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Please invite the first Vice-Chairman of the Committee on European Integration of Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In accordance with the provisions of the Treaty, the parties agree to establish the Ukrainian-German Chamber of Commerce in Kiev, which the Deputy Minister spoke about. I would like to emphasize and add to the words that matter to us in the decision-making process of the Ministry of Economics, that this agreement was signed during a business forum held in Berlin last year. This is one of the other forums that was held following the initiative of the Ukrainian government after Washington and after London. And you know, the next forum will, as far as I know, take place in Paris when it was transferred because of the terrorist attacks that took place. These are steps the Ukrainian government is taking to boost Ukraine's external trade, to support the Ukrainian economy. This is especially important after the entry into force of the free trade zone that comes out of the Association Agreement on 1 January of this year. You know, since January 1, this regime has been applied despite the Russian Federation's protest. The Russian Federation applied the trade embargo against Ukraine on January 1st and had the corresponding effects, the negative effects on the Ukrainian economy. It is therefore very important for us, for the country, for the economy, for the Ukrainian people, for the Ukrainian business, to support such steps by the government, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian Embassy. I call on everyone to support ratification. And I report that the Committee on European Integration, at its meeting, reviewed the ratification of this law and recommended that the Supreme Council ratify the treaty. I urge you to do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Please sign up, two for, two against. Please, Roman Semenha, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u92	Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank Mrs. Nicholas and the Ministry of Economics. Because they started doing the right thing. I very much hope that we will soon ratify agreements with others regarding the creation of other chambers of commerce that are important to us especially in European countries. Because we lost a very serious, very serious portion of the market. And now we have to help our industry get to European markets, taking into account the free trade area, taking into account the transition to European standards. But, nevertheless, I ask you very much, especially the Ministry of Economics, please communicate with our entrepreneurs, communicate with our business. Explain to them what this tool is for the chambers of commerce, how it will help them to go to these markets. How it will support them in new European markets for Ukraine, especially important, strategic ones such as the German market. So I want to thank you once again and invite all my colleagues to support a very correct strategy to support the direction of trade as a budgetary component for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Of course, we need to maintain close ties with our European partners, to create the chamber that is involved in this legislative act. But I would like to point out that it is not possible to treat a foreign investor positively and to completely ignore my internal investor — an entrepreneur, an industrialist, an employer, a taxpayer. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that last week I held a large meeting in Dnipropetrovska with the largest trade unions, with employers’ associations representing more than 500,000 jobs. A mining and metallurgical complex, agriculture, food industry, machine-building. Do you know what unites 100 percent of the workers and employers today? This has never been the case with their interests in the first place! They always have a conflict of interest. Thus, they are united, sadly, by a Ukrainian government that hears neither one nor the other. A completely lacking dialogue with power and the ability to influence tax payers, entrepreneurs, manufacturers on the wrong economic course that the government is running today. In four years, the number of jobs in Dnipropetrovska has decreased from 950 to 790,000, lost 160,000 jobs, and is an industrial disaster. That's why today we've taken note of the tasks they're putting in place: stopping the land tax index, introducing direct ownership of officials' property for their decisions, reforming the tax system that will ensure the childization of the economy, ensuring the specificity of connection to energy networks and many specific things that we and you as parliamentarians are obliged to do if it's not done by our government that we've created.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky, People's Front. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I also want to pay attention to the importance of ratifying this agreement. Now in the situation that has arisen for Ukraine, it is extremely important to invest more and increase Ukraine’s ability to invest in the world’s investment markets. Therefore, this agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of the German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce is extremely important for strengthening economic ties with the Federal Republic of Germany. In this connection, I would also like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Economics for holding investment forums and for continuing this work, which are extremely important in order to increase the interest of foreign investors in Ukraine and also to restore the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u98	Please, Oles Long, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u99	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I would now like to address Mrs. Natalka as a member of the committee of profile with gratitude to myself and to those members of the committee who are watching her work. At a time when there's absolutely no coordinate system, when there's virtually no authorization, it's today as a sales rep on. is carrying out that activity, which is the only one concerning the protectionism of the Ukrainian manufacturer. We saw their reports, we saw their real work. So I would like to thank you for being one of the small islands of stability in today's government, although I fully agree with all the previous speakers that the government's economic policy has no strategic plan, there is no, let's say, balanced indicator on which they can boast today, particularly, and working with the Ukrainian producer, and stimulating.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany establishing the German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. We're voting on the 0092 draft Ratification Act. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. And it's also supported by the Chief Science and Technology Administration. Vote. Please, colleagues, support the ratification, the Ratification Act. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[11:46:55]] For 238. The law's been passed. Please be more careful, dear colleagues. Please, we have a number of questions that have been discussed. I invite Hannah Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to inform you of the decisions that we have discussed earlier. 0081 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Development of Carpathians. Attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished chairman, citizens of Ukraine! About three weeks ago, we had already discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians, and the Committee decided to support the ratification of the Protocol itself. And I would like to thank those parliamentarians who are in this room who are involved in the development of the Carpathian region. I want to say that Ukraine has signed and ratified the International Framework Convention on Protection and Development of the Carpathians before, and it is very important that many infrastructure projects, such as Oxana Jurinec, are available to us, many other deputies who are involved in deepening their relationship with our neighbours in the Carpathian region, such as Poland. Therefore, I would like to vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard the information on the matter discussed earlier, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. We're voting in general. Attention! We're voting 0081 as a whole. I'd like everyone's support, national deputies. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:49:15.]] For 238. I'd like to ask you more carefully, Your Honor. 0085 is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement. Please, Anna Gopko. Inform, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u103	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues! You and I have already discussed in this room the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement. And the committee recommends voting as a whole. I can say that this is an extremely important and long-awaited document submitted by the President of Ukraine. It opens the way for Ukrainian companies to access the global market for international purchases by ratifying this document, and that's about $1 trillion. When our companies can participate and compete with others, they can participate in different tenders in different countries around the world. So just for the economy of time, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Economics, personally Mrs. Natalia Mikolska, for the hard work she is doing right now in order for Ukrainian goods to appear in the markets of the world, in order to sign new free trade agreements with Canada, Israel, in order to open Ukraine to the world, in order to invest here. More people in the Ministry of Economics. I think that's when we finally have the strategy of our economy and what we are. Where we'll be heading. I really hope that this is going to be a high-tech economic model. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard of the accession to the State Procurement Agreement. Please take your seats, and we are voting on 0085 – draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement. The Committee's proposal, the conclusions – on the basis and overall, the conclusion of the Chief Executive – to support as a whole as well. Ready to vote? Colleagues, please vote in general. Please vote, 0085, vote. Please vote. [[11:51:38]] For 243 Law approved, 0085. Dear colleagues, draft Law 2490a. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! We need to take a decision with you from the Supreme Council draft Law No. 2490a discussed on 27 January this year, amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the enforcement of criminal penalties and the implementation of the rights of convicted persons. Let me remind you, the bill provides for changes to the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement. Criminal Procedure Codes and Fragmentary Amendments to the 10 special laws of Ukraine relating to the settlement of issues relating to the introduction of probation in Ukraine, certain matters of execution and execution of penalties not related to the deprivation of liberty, the increased legal protection of persons convicted of such punishments. In addition, the amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code specify the order and conditions of punishment in the form of restriction and deprivation of liberty and eliminate the existing differences between the KPC, the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine. Conditions are created for the actual ability of the defendants to exercise their legal rights. In view of its presentation and its potential for further elaboration in preparation for second reading, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of its consideration of Bill 2490a in the first reading to accept it as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2490a, the question discussed earlier. Please take all your seats. Colleagues, please support the 2490a discussed earlier. And Andrey Anatoliyovich reminded me of the essence of the bill. Vote? Please, colleagues, 2490a. Take your seats. Ready? Let's vote in general, please. The MPs are coming in, I see. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues. Ready to vote? Vote 2490a on the basis, vote, please support, Your Honor. We vote in favour, please support, on the basis. [[11:55:07]] For 238. 238 – Law adopted on the basis of 2490a. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Legal Education Reform in Ukraine". Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich will report. It's a determination, dear colleagues. There is a suggestion to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure, please support. Short-term procedure. [[11:55:42]] For-164 Thank you. 164. Please report, Lilia Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u107	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On December 9, last year, parliamentary hearings were held on the theme "Rightful provision of education reform in Ukraine". These hearings have indeed become a resonant event that has once again exposed the major problems we have in the area of education reform in Ukraine. The hearings gathered a wide range of students and this was a really important social dialogue on the reform strategy in the area of education in Ukraine. There were representatives of different sectors of education, there were native scientists, there were employers, there were public, there were educational and student organizations, there were European experts, and there were all those recommendations that we now have in the documents that you presented. The reason for such a wide meeting was the relevance of the subject of hearings, since we are now working on the Education Act, which will determine the movement of education from preschool to adult education for the next 20 years. You know that you and I have sent the Education Act introduced by the government to the Committee on Education and Science. In line with these recommendations, we are now working very hard to finalize the text of this bill, which will be submitted shortly in Parliament. It is very important for us that the recommendations be approved, because this is a guide to action, not just for the Supreme Council, but for the government, for the National Academy of Education and the National Academy of Sciences and other organizations that support the education strategy in Ukraine. I'm very grateful for your support in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u108	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal: to take the whole draft decision as a basis. Please sign up: two for, two against. I think they'll all be in favor, because it's impossible to be against education, education always has to be supported and supported. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to take up much time, I'm just going to say, it's one of the things that should unite our hall. It's about the future of our country, it's about the future of our children. And those parliamentary hearings that have taken place in the Ukrainian Parliament, involving many experts and experts, have suggested that we unite with you so that the questions and challenges faced by Ukrainian education can be resolved in a qualitative manner. And our faction, and I hope all the other factions support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u111	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Only that nation has a future when it is educated and healthy. Unfortunately, today we have a reform of education in Ukraine, which amounts to a banal reduction in the number of educational institutions, the elimination of schools, universities, kindergartens. Today, Ukrainians are denied the right to receive a decent education. For many people today, education is not available because of the cost of educational services and because of the lack of access to them. This is especially true in rural areas, where schools are closed to educational institutions under the economics of schools and say that children will be brought to life. They'll drive you to school. How can they be taken to a school in a paradise on which roads to take buses? Those who don't? No roads, no buses. During the war, a well - known incident occurred in 1941 when the budget of Britain, which was at war with Germany, was reduced expenditure on culture and education. And when the finance minister came up with appropriate suggestions to Prime Minister Winston Churchill, he said, "What are we fighting for?" That is, a nation that does not care about its own education, its own culture, its own science, and the health of its citizens is doomed to defeat. And I'm surprised when I'm in the lexicon of the Prime Minister, the finance minister almost never hears a mention of science, of education. And if we hear those memories, it's only when we're talking about reducing the network of educational and educational institutions. The radical party’s position is clear: we must spend as much as possible on our communities’ education, on physical culture, on the physical health of our citizens. Then we will be strong, then the Ukrainians will be successful, then Ukraine will have a future and a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Alexander Spiowakovsky, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, in general, by supporting this determination, I would like to draw attention to a very important warning. This morning we had a rummage with Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich about this. This warning applies to sentences related to 12-year education. I'm a 12-year-old person, but according to sociological surveys, we have 70 percent of parents and teachers today don't accept this standard. So we agreed that if we're going to support this and then support the Law in the first reading of the world, we have to understand that in 2 to 2.5 months we're going to go through all of Ukraine, we have to carry out a powerful information campaign to get people to understand why we're creating a 12-year education. Because our experience in previous ministers, I mean Mr. Kremen Vasil Grigorovovich, who started a 12-year education, and then one of the highlights of Mr. Tobacco's feathers was that 12-year education, we shouldn't repeat those mistakes. So, honourable colleagues, I'm just pointing out that let's vote yes, but the warning that we have to make information about these reforms is what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Draft Decree 4033D on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Legal Education Reform in Ukraine". Please prepare for the vote. The Committee's proposal: on the basis and in general. Vote. I'd like everyone's support, Your Honor, on the subject of education. Vote for it, please. On the basis and in general. [[12:03:41]] For 243 I'll rule you in. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a 30-minute recess until 12 o'clock in 30 minutes. Thank you all for your work, colleagues, constructive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Let's get back to the daytime issues. For your consideration, a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of entrepreneurship in Ukraine and support for small and medium-sized businesses" is proposed. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Head of the committee! Mr. Galasjuk! Order on recommendations of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u116	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Prompolitics, entrepreneurship at its meeting on February 3, 16th, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of Entrepreneurship in Ukraine and Support for Small and Medium-sized Business", which was held on September 30, 2015. I want to brief you on the main results. First of all, I would like to highlight the fact that such parliamentary hearings dedicated to supporting small business development were held last year in the Ukrainian Parliament in 2004. What are you talking about? That the cornerstone today is the restoration of a normal social dialogue in a country where the authorities will hear entrepreneurs, industrialists, tax payers, domestic and foreign investors, those on whose shoulders the country is based. Without it, there is no chance of development, without it there is no chance of Euro-integration. To those fellow members of the national parliament who have not found the opportunity to participate in these parliamentary hearings, I would like to talk about how they have taken place. They were extremely sharp. It was just a rush of criticism from entrepreneurs to the address and Cabinet of Ministers, and the Supreme Council for the economic policy of the government, for the politics of the Ukrainian government. We have received a series of system recommendations, wishes, critical comments that we have worked with experts, together with colleagues of the people's deputies that we have put forward in this draft recommendations for parliamentary hearings. I'm not going to count all of them, but I would like to highlight the key that Ukrainian entrepreneurs, industrialists, taxpayers, employers require. What is required by those who depend on Ukraine’s life and the integration of Ukraine. These include such requirements as continuing a temporary moratorium on inspection of control organs and resting small and medium -sized businesses so that they can spend at least a year without checks. And this is the time to give the Cabinet of Ministers at the same time to systematically reform the regulatory system, to fully reboot the regulatory system of Ukraine, to remove the corruption factors. And this has to happen in an absolutely transparent way. I would like to point out that there is already an appropriate bill on this Thursday, which I urge you to be assured that we will protect the interests of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs first. Government commission. During six months of planning, the regulatory system will be fully restarted over the course of the year to remove artificial regulatory barriers. Such a bill, 3766, is also now in Parliament, as discussed by our committee. We offer to accept it as soon as possible. The issue of ensuring the competitiveness of access to energy networks for Ukrainian producers. To prevent the abuse of the monopoly of natural monopolies in the fields of energy, heating, centralized water supply, and water supply. The advice, the recommendation of parliamentary hearings, is vital. With a view to operationalizing business issues and the state of affairs regarding the implementation of state-owned enterprise policy to prevent strikes. If there is no normal response to power, it is necessary to organize forums, expanded meetings with business, both at the central level, at least once in the north and in the regions, at least quarterly, to ensure that taxpayers have an influence on the authorities, on the decisions they make. Customs issues that have been raised today are extremely acute, as smuggling flourishes in Ukraine. According to customs experts, almost $3 billion in annual expressions can be found by overcoming smuggling schemes. As a result, members of Parliament’s hearings suggested that automated operational communication of information with foreign customs services, synchronized processing of documents, create unified flows of information, the only data collection for all control services through the integration of Ukraine, including into the computerized transit system of the European Union. The point is that there will be no situation when, on one side of the Polish border or from where a car is coming from, and when it comes to Ukrainian territory, there are other goods at a different price. What's more, the issue of overcoming customs smuggling is not just filling the state budget, it's not just the colossal costs that I said it was protecting the Ukrainian producer. Because of this rostrum, a number of entrepreneurs complained that because of the illegal imports of goods into Ukraine, they are suffering and cannot sell their products that they legally produce in Ukraine, from which they pay their taxes, because they are uncompetitive compared to black imports, compared to gray imports. The extremely acute issue that we need to take up immediately, today, I know, will be dealt with by the Committee on Tax, Customs, is the question of stopping land value indexation for tax purposes. Such a bill has already been filed, organized by the Radical Party faction, supported by other factions to stop the automatic increase of land tax to inflation for two years, 15-16 years. If this is not done, the land tax will increase by almost 60 percent or 70 percent for all businesses, for industrial enterprises. It's just putting them on their knees, because today's products are falling in price, demand is falling into prices, automatically raising taxes on the ground, comparing them to inflation, that's just economic crime. So we have to fix this situation, stop the land value index immediately for tax purposes, which is what Ukrainian entrepreneurs require. Create a single register, ensure automatic tax compensation for the added value to tax payers. Because when powerful investment incentives are introduced in other countries – in Turkey, Poland, Slovakia and others – there are automatic tax incentives for exporters, industrial parks, other incentive mechanisms, there are not even basic standards in Ukraine today that allow the exporter to work legally, to fill state and local budgets. The Supreme Council was recommended to adopt a bill to ensure the large-scale export expansion of Ukrainian producers to create an export credit agency. Such agencies exist in the vast majority of European countries, allowing them to promote the outflow of domestic goods to foreign markets, provide cheaper credits, guarantee insurance for export contracts, allowing them to take over new markets. You see how huge the prospects are today in Ukraine, in the Iran market, in the Vietnam market, in the African markets, in the Asian markets, and we don't use them because the government is delaying the creation of an export credit agency, you and I have already adopted in the first reading of Bill 2142a, we have as a whole as soon as possible to adopt it, to run this export credit agency to help increase Ukrainian exports, which is now falling critically. There are a number of specific issues regarding the expansion of Ukraine's external trade, including the resolution of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization Advisory Centre in Geneva. These are issues that could be resolved by the government, including in the working order. But no. These issues are already coming to the parliament level, at the national level, because they are not being addressed properly. Dear fellow national MPs! To conclude, I would like to highlight a few key aspects. First and foremost, what Ukrainian entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses, employers, those who export products abroad, jobs, and taxes require. They require a dialogue with power and the ability to influence power, as is the case in the countries of the European Union and not only the European Union, but in all civilized countries. The other one. They demand a change in the government's socio-economic course, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of the domestic industry, which will allow Ukraine to become financially independent, raise social standards, move closer to the European level of citizens' income, overcome corruption through the initiatives that I have listed, including here. And to become truly a European country not only geographically but also economically. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "Development of entrepreneurship in Ukraine and support of small and medium-sized businesses" in the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Please wait, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Is there a question for the reporter? I won't. Then I can consider your speech and report to the committee as well, a co-report. Yeah, okay, then. Please speak from MPs and factions. Please sign up for the performance. We're looking at a full-procedure bill. Please, National Deputy Vasil Amelchenko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laschka. I'm sorry, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u118	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The economic policy pursued by today’s authorities is not clearly in the interests of Ukraine and is not in the interests of business. What does the government do? When I said "power," I mean not just the government, together -- both the National Bank, and the parliamentary majority, and the presidential vertical, because they're all jointly responsible for the state of the economy. Because whatever the prime minister is, whatever the government's program, but when the National Bank's account rate is 22 percent and the value of credit in a commercial bank is 35-40 percent, there will be no small, medium or large business. I'm familiar with it. Recently, the European Central Bank loan rate is zero per cent, the Japanese Central Bank loan rate is 0.1 per cent, the US Federal Reserve rate is zero per cent, we have 22. What kind of business development can we talk about? It's about government policy. Show me one country in the world that is successful where there is no industrial potential? There is no country. Even those countries that we're setting an example of, the United States, the countries of the European Union, they're developed, they're economically successful at the expense of industrial potential, because industry is the backbone of any successful economy. What do we see, government action on industry? Recently, the government decided to increase the cost of rail transport by 10 percent. How can we raise the cost, the rail tariffs, when the cost of production, grain, metal, coal fell when we have closed external markets, when we don't have internal large-scale infrastructure projects that would allow our industry to develop? How can we raise the cost of electricity tariffs to rail transport, when we have 60 percent of the raw material in our export structure, the raw material of falling at price and falling at sales volume, as a result, the decline in foreign currency revenues, as a result, all of this leads to job cuts, closing down businesses. We lost the Russian market, nearly 50 percent of last year's decline in traffic between Ukraine and Russia. The vast majority of companies from the east and south of Ukraine sold their products in Russia. Today, when there is no Russian market, I ask where to sell the products of our companies located in the east in the south. Either liberate people, or find new markets. Is that what our authorities are doing? No, he doesn't. We had an Iranian market open when sanctions were lifted, and why aren't there any Ukrainian companies? Why we don't have a real European market opening, but we've set small quotas that actually work against Ukraine's national interests. Therefore, the Radical Party demands a radical change in economic policy and we have presented our own plan of anti-crisis actions that are ready to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u119	Thank you. People's MP, Rosenblatt, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I would very much like to invite all the deputies to participate in these hearings to protect our entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized businesses. This is a very important topic for us not only because we have to take care of our business development every day, but above all we want to take care of it. It's not just development, I repeat, it's protection. Because today, what we are doing today is conducting a policy of deregulation, we are conducting a policy of reforming some government institutions that have influenced business development, they haven't developed it, they haven't developed it, they've hindered it. And so, to this day, we have this situation where today's beloved entrepreneur of our country doesn't know tomorrow. He does not believe in the future of our country because he is not protected by any international economic laws. What would I like to support and invite you again? There will be hearings, there will be parliamentary hearings, we must be present in the hall. Because many entrepreneurs who come, they want not only to hear them from television screens but to hear the MPs who are responsible for the districts where they are chosen. Not just during election campaigns, but during regular, hard work. So, I'd like to go to the Supreme Council for more guidance on how many economic laws today are in the agenda and not in the agenda of our Supreme Council? They're waiting for their time, but that's not what people are waiting for, and that's what they're waiting for today, most of all those people who need protection -- these are our pensioners, these are our people who depend on social assistance, because it's only the job creation, the job creation opportunities for our people. In particular, once again, I want to assure you, today the whole country is waiting to give us money to the IMF or not? Why don't we ask the other question? Maybe we'll ask ourselves, how many jobs have we created in the last time, how many companies have we closed down? That's the answer we should be worried about. How many opportunities can we give today to fill the budget at the expense of our own business, at the expense of our own Ukrainian business? Sadly, very few of us hear about it today. And in the daytime order, very few laws that need to be kept in the daytime order so that we can still support and protect the country's producer. Today, there were many questions about amber production. It's not a question today, because someone wants to, someone doesn't want to. Today, the north of our country suffers from the newly created "banana republics", which today do not have a legislative base that does not, in fact, already have Ukrainian authority. There is a gulf of banditry and a criminogenic situation there today. I would ask him this question today: These laws, which were created to fill the public treasury, should be a priority. It's not the populist laws that we're boasting about today in front of each other on television, who's going to do more for Ukraine, but make economic laws a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u121	Thank you. People's deputies, I'm just reminding you that this comes from factions, not from national MPs. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alexander Doubenkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Alexander Igorovich Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u123	Please, Alexander Nechayev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u124	Thank you. Of course, our faction will support this decision because it is very important to us. No international loan will save our economy or improve the lives of our people. Only our industry, only our companies that pay taxes here, provide jobs, will be able to get Ukraine out of the pit where we have been in the last two years. So I am very grateful that such fine, meticulous work has been done in organizing these hearings. And I ask you to support all factions, support the decision now put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u125	Thank you. We're done talking about factions. Now, speak to the national MPs. Please sign up to the National Deputies for the performance. Please, National Deputy Yuri Solovay, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u126	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the issues of my beliefs that we should consider every day in the Ukrainian Parliament. Because we're talking about the economy, we're talking a lot about the Attorney General, we're talking a lot about corruption, we're talking about transforming the government. But why do we say absolutely nothing about last year's 10 percent drop in GDP in our country, which last year in our country was more than 50 percent inflation in food, and last year's devaluation of Ukrainian national currency was over 50 percent? We're talking about the things that concern us with you, but we're absolutely forgetting to talk about the things that concern Ukrainian society today. Have the Ukrainian government been doing economics for a year, or has the Ukrainian Parliament understood the economic goals of the economy? I think everyone will probably say it didn't happen. Today, the Ukrainian government has no qualified First Deputy Prime Minister to deal with economic issues, there is no minister of the economy. Those who are doing the economy today are doing it autonomously, and there is no single coordination of all issues related to the development of Ukrainian industry, small and medium-sized businesses and the Ukrainian economy. And so, to my profound conviction, when we are facing the formation of a new Ukrainian government today, we must first ask ourselves, and what will be the economic composition of the Ukrainian government: who will be the first vice-premier to run the Ministry of Economics, Minfin; who will be the head of the National Bank and what tasks will be faced by the Ukrainian government. Because when we talk about the Coalition Agreement, to my deep conviction, it should be on the same page and have a technical task for the Ukrainian government. The first is what GDP will be growing in 2016; the second, what will be the dollar rate in Ukrainian society; and the third, what will be the inflation rate in 2016. I'm convinced that if we go this way to the formation of a new programme, a new coalition agreement, and the formation of a new government economic bloc, that would be an effective response to the challenges that are facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Ariev, "Block of Peter Prashenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, should we even develop a medium and small business or should we give it conditions and not interfere? These questions are the key to our day. Why are we today? It's completely our competence to give small and medium-sized businesses all conditions of work. What does he need today? First of all, a normal and adequate tax base. What I'm saying is that we didn't adopt the Tax Code in Nina Jujanina's edition, and as a result, we created some kind of mix that's not really working today, and the small and medium-sized business doesn't feel like it's getting any relief. But that Tax Code was able to lower taxes, simplify administration and actually give vacations to small and medium-sized businesses for growth. Because it's different today than in a known anecdote about a cow. What is needed for a cow to give more milk and less food? It needs to be fed more and less. And this is today’s principle that applies to all entrepreneurs, except individuals. But if we go on like this, we're going to be beating the crap out of small and medium-sized businesses. But not even that important. An important very important moment is finally to carry out judicial reform, which is also the basis for attacks on small and medium-sized businesses. Why? By the way, judicial reform is whose jurisdiction, let me ask you? The president? All right? Are we not voting and delaying the start of real judicial reform? What is happening today? Tax comes to the entrepreneur and says, "We're here with you, probably the expenses he's incurred, we're not going to put you at your expense." He says, "How's that? I did, I spent, I have all the documents." He says, "Go to court." There, in a court of law, an entrepreneur gets the money, he actually pays the judge to make an honest court decision, and then the judge and the taxpayer share the money in the paws. These corrupt connections are now possible only because we are still delaying judicial reform. Let us, therefore, conduct ourselves, not by listening, but by acting. And please tell me, what is there to do for entrepreneurs? Recommendations or real legislation that they have long been waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy John Rybak, the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u130	For further analysis, please report to Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u131	He gave the word to Victor Krivenko. Please, Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues and the previous speaker! That's the truth of the world that there's no pure model that's successful. There is no model of pure liberalism and there is no purely successful model of a fully planned economy. The whole world combines the so-called "horizontal" reforms, reforms that improve life in all spheres, improve the business climate: the fight against corruption, anti-monopoly policies, the activities of regulators – with "vertical" reforms, reforms aimed at areas that can be developed by means of a system of education that releases high-quality professionals, or by some raw advantage, not to release raw materials, but to recycle them in their country and their support tools. We were in Lithuania that week. A simple example. The country has 45 tools to support its business. It's a country that's in the European Union. From the point of view of them, just as a gift is actually given to companies of 10,000 euros for exhibition activities. Up to 6,000 euros are issued as a grant for certification in EU countries. Up to 40 percent of the cost of equipment is made available without a return to technical equipment. Up to 80 percent, 320 million euros are allocated to the programme. It's for a country where 2.8 million people! Over 9 billion dollars for our money. For technological refuelling and for the purchase of innovation equipment and for the implementation of innovative projects. That's how countries in the world fight for investment! And we're talking to their Ministry of Industry, so wait, you don't have that many projects for 9 billion dollars. He says, right, no, so we, like Ukraine, bring in experts. We'll come and they'll make production here. So the whole world combines horizontal and vertical reforms. These are two legs of the economy, free processes, and stimulating activities. We have four of them, a kind of activity that we need to stimulate. It's a machine building, six sub-species, it's a processing industry, so that nothing comes out as raw materials, it's high technology, and it's energy conservation. We need to involve international companies, such as Lithuania, and we have a project selection process. Because we've had these tools in 20 years. And they keep telling us, "That's how it was, and there was corruption!" There was corruption. So, if the kid broke his phone when he was a kid, you never give her that phone again? We need to create conditions for transparency. And to do that, first of all, to involve those companies that support European funding in European countries, to involve them in project selection, to finance their co-operation. So if we don't change the economic paradigm right now, if we don't give up this conversation that's going to save us, that's going to save us, and we're going to start connecting, like all the successful countries in the world, like all our Western neighbors, we're going to have a huge social shock. Because today, not only does Putin and his aggression become the main enemy, but the poverty of the population and the feeling that there is no prospect. You and I have exported over a million working Ukrainians in the last year. Only in Poland, you know these numbers all, 411 went out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u133	Thank you. Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u134	In Poland alone, 411,000 Ukrainians left in the past six months. So it's very important that this understanding finally comes to mind for our government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u135	Thank you. National Deputy Sergei Matvienkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u136	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, we all know and understand that the well-being of the country depends on the state of the economy, and that is all I think everyone understands. But let's look at what's happening to our economy. The decline in gross domestic product over the past year was only more than 10 per cent. What matters most is that you even know the wrong numbers that we can analyze today, we can call many figures on this issue. And the fact that there is no clear public economic policy today is what I think precedes, indeed, everyone. What we lost in the markets and in the west, we lost markets and in the east, regardless of the political situation. We have lost entire export-oriented industries, such as engineering, shipbuilding, aviation and a number of other things. The banking system, the banking sector of the economy, is virtually cut off from the real sector of the economy, lives in itself. An entrepreneur or a producer is self-sustaining, and today he does not understand what policies he needs to pursue, because there is no State economic policy. Today, the State is living with a long arm, the external debt has already reached GDP, more than 2 trillion dollars worth to date. What does it say to survive in these circumstances? Of course, all problems lie with the population, of course. Hence the unemployment rate, which exceeded 10 per cent, and the payroll arrears, which are already over 2 billion dollars worth to date. And people have to find a way to find a way, and where to make a living? Of course, all the thoughts are in Europe, or the East, somewhere to make money. As a result, this is a painting that we have translated, earners, this year's money here, into the country of Ukraine, more than we have invested in the past year. This should be considered by all, both the Government and the coalition, which is producing a single programme. What are we offered in return? We are offered either a system or a privatization mainly of the balance of industry that is today that will give us nothing. And we're already seeing that prices have dropped to 50 percent. A large industrial enterprise is sold at a price of less than 50 per cent of its nominal value. Or they're offering to sell land, which is probably not the best option. Well, let's sell, what's next? What will we continue to sit on, and how will our economy continue to function and live? We are ready to support any proposals. But to date, I can say one thing: neither the State programmes for the development of small and medium-sized businesses nor the coalition have a clear understanding of the legislative affirmation of this direction, this development. And what's happening today is just a distraction, let's say so to our people. Simple terms on what, here, let us support small and medium-sized businesses, although we do not see any concrete steps in keeping this direction, because we understand that there is something to be done today to compensate for job creation. People have to pay their wages in order to find a way to stay in the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u137	Thank you. And the speech, National Deputy Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party, is the last performance. I'm asking the people's deputies to return to the hall. We'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u138	Dear Mrs. Oksana, dear fellow national MPs! When the Radical Party faction criticizes the current government's socio-economic course, we offer an alternative. And this alternative, it could be the foundation of a new coalition agreement and the foundation of an economic, financial bloc of government. What is the main idea? The main three components of the new economic course. First. It's to create economic development institutions, to create what helped Poland, Slovakia and Turkey, to get other countries out of poverty, what helped them rebuild their production. It's an export credit agency. This bill has already been approved by you in the first reading. In the near future, we offer to accept it as a whole. It will provide cheaper credits for Ukrainian manufacturers who sell products abroad, which will help to increase exports, stabilize bracelets, stabilize prices. This is the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In order to accumulate international financial assistance for development, it is possible to lend cheap loans to Ukrainian manufacturers to build new productions, new factories. These are industrial parks. One law of three passed, two are in Parliament to involve, as Turks, as Poles, European investors here, to create jobs from Ukrainian raw materials and produce products, to sell to Europe to feed Ukrainians, to fill the Ukrainian budget, to raise wages and pensions. It's a small business support agency. When they say: Let small business develop on its own. Go to the United States and see, there the Small Business Support Agency has provided $120 billion in small business loans for development under very low interest rates. The second ingredient is to accumulate international financial assistance and domestic sources to launch the "warming" policy of the Ukrainian economy. I'm also talking about overcoming customs smuggling, I'm talking about efficient governance, not dispossessing and selling state property, de-offshoring the economy through tax reform. I say, including through targeted money emissions into the manufacturing sector, which will be linked to Ukrainian production and will not lead to inflation. The third, extremely important ingredient is sectoral, sectoral, industrial policy. We have to take care of every sector of the Ukrainian economy: metallurgy, food industry, machinery, agriculture, not only by solving their current problems, but by creating incentives for them to develop. What is happening today? And today the government is doing the opposite: the development institutions are not creating, the international financial assistance is taking food and looting and is not pursuing sectoral policy, or even preventing Parliament from doing so. That's why it's a complete change, a radical change in the country's economic and social development course. I propose that all my colleagues, regardless of political views and party affiliation, support this policy, because this is Ukraine's path to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u139	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. But given that these are the results of parliamentary hearings, these are the proposals of all those people who participate in parliamentary hearings, I don't think we can approve of such a decision. So I'm going to propose that we make a signal vote and see if we have enough votes in the room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. Signal vote, let's try it, let's go. Vote. [[13:18:13]] For 175 Sadly, we do not have the votes needed to make decisions. Let's get to the question. We have completed our consideration, and we will make our decision later. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Stand and prospects for road safety in Ukraine" is now under consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Transport Committee, the head of the Igor Didenko subcommittee, please. At the suggestion, wait a minute, at the suggestion of the rapporteur, please support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure, these are recommendations for parliamentary hearings. I'd like to support you. [[13:19:11]] For-144 Well, that means we're considering the recommendations of parliamentary hearings by full procedure. No, so we are considering the full procedure. Please. Please, the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u140	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, the Transport Committee on 23 December 2015 held parliamentary hearings on "The State and Prospects for Road Safety in Ukraine", which resulted in a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State and Prospects for Road Safety in Ukraine" (Registration No. 4129) of 23 February 2016, which is proposed for you. Today, we have very terrible statistics on road safety in the country. If someone doesn't know the statistics, every day we have up to 12 people on the road in the country, the day is over, we have 12 people dead on the road. What's the problem? The problem is that today we have no road safety coordination. Let me give you an example. In a 2015 UN General Assembly report on road accidents, Ukraine was on the map with a gray spot because no one has reported today what statistics we have, how many people are dying on roads, what are we doing? That's why. The statistics from the audience show that today, we have a five to six times greater risk of getting into a traffic accident than in Europe. I mean, for today, the saying we have is, "my house from the land." It doesn't work for all of us because when we leave our house, we become road users. The cars that go to the walkways, to the traffic stops, and it's creating such a little chaos. We have reform for today's police force, but we don't have a reform of a comprehensive road safety system. European countries, with a large number of cars, have gone through this stage and have shown us what reform should be like. There were foreign experts who told how this movement's security, like an organization, how the state's care for its road users goes to our neighbours who went through reforms. And today we have statistics that are twice as high as in European countries. So if. For information, we've lost 4,000 in traffic accidents and 300,000 injured in the past year. It's terrible statistics, it's such a government, it's unprofessional. As a result of proposals made by members of the parliamentary hearings, the Transport Committee of the Supreme Council wants to comment on some of the suggestions for comments. President of Ukraine: To consider at the National Council for Reform a project on integrated road safety reform in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine: to ensure the establishment of a national road safety coordination body, to strengthen parliamentary control over the activities of executive authorities in the field of road safety, to develop and adopt the Ukrainian Road Safety Act. Regarding the Cabinet of Ministers, recommend: develop, approve the concept of a national road safety programme in the country by 2020 and an appropriate national programme. Individual assignments are provided for local authorities. Control over the implementation of this regulation by the Transport Committee leaves behind. So I'm asking you to support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State and Prospects for Road Safety" (Registration No. 4129) and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u141	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Then please sit down. And we can consider your statement to be a co-report of the committee as well. And that's why I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please, from factions. Please, National Deputy Sergey Eutuszek, "The Motherland Union" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u142	Sergey Eutuszek, Ravenshkina, Fatherland, representative of the Transport Committee. Madam Chairman, thank you for giving the floor. I was present at these public parliamentary hearings, where there were so many representatives of the public, public organizations, organizations that, to this day, when the government, all the authorities that were supposed to be watching and watching, taking action to ensure the safety of the movement, do not do so, it is these activists who are wasting their time and resources and helping. I really, really want to support the previous speaker, Igor Didenk, that in Ukraine, it's a very sad statistic. Probably the only state in Eastern and Western Europe that doesn't have a video and photo fixation system. And what I'm saying is, this statistics are pretty awful by the number of people who died -- 12 people die in our roads in the day, and they're the ones who died right there. If you consider other statistics — people who have been brought to the hospital — the figure is 17 per day. What do we suggest in this case? It's obvious that when a commission was set up at the Ministry of Internal Affairs in October last year, which is completely non-working, does not make any practical even meetings or proposals, does not even offer us proposals here, in Parliament, in the budget and committee, we obviously need to create either an agency, or maybe some government at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which will not depend on politicians who will not be dependent on militia or police agencies today to conduct security measures. When we create such an organ, we can provide either investors, or representatives of the World Bank, if our budget is not able and there is no income for such funds, we can ensure that we install such photos, videos, such as technology. And if we can't do that, then obviously we need to go to our businessmen, who are going to put money into this very important thing and develop a mechanism that will allow the money to be channelled in the income side and also allow them to make money. I also want to say that it is very important that Parliament has a draft Road Fund Act, which provides for 5 per cent of the total traffic security.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the death rate in Ukraine is six times higher on the road than in the countries of the European Union. Also, more people die each year on Ukraine’s roads than in the ATO zone. And the question of coordination of work as the only road safety centre is now extremely relevant for the country. I also believe that coordination needs to be created precisely in the provision of health care during the DTT to citizens, in linking them with emergency care centres and, above all, in the creation of facilities and facilities based on those hospitals that are next to the main routes that are located along the main roads to equip them with the necessary equipment, the necessary number of traumatologists, surgeons, in order to provide the necessary medical assistance in a timely and rapid manner. That is why a pilot project in the Kyiv region, along with the district administration and the Ministry of Health, is about to begin. But I think we shouldn't be doing pilot projects, we have to solve these problems comprehensively, and we have to take state control over these important issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u145	Thank you. We're moving on to the People's Deputies. People's deputies please sign up. National Deputy Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u146	Dear fellow MPs, it is a sad fact that, aside from the front which is in the east, there are two more fronts in Ukraine. Today a national MP, Sisoyenko, spoke about this too. It's medicine where people don't have to die. And the other front is the front on the road. But we can talk a lot about the role of the state, we can talk a lot about the role of business, but we are convinced that the closest to people in government is local self - government, which today has a lot of authority and a lot of money. Because enlightened pedestrian crossings are prevention of road killings; tournaments in places where people cross the road, breaking the rules; schooling is not going to be done by the state; communities that the state should encourage to finance, to care for its inhabitants. Good public transport, equipped with public transport stops And when the community thinks about it and takes care of it, and the state will encourage it to do so in combination with a quality patrol service that will fine for violating traffic rules, objectively, we can reduce the number of people who die on the road. And so this is a very important component and a moment. So at these hearings, we raised this question. The committee took note of this. And the following hearings should be when the mayors of Ukraine sit in the hall, thinking about their role in protecting the lives of people on the roads in their cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u147	Thank you. National Deputy Alona Babak. National Deputy Helen Sotnik, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u148	Colleagues! In fact, you and I have adopted a number of laws that apply, including road safety. What do we see today? For example, the Road Safety Act provided for the installation of appropriate cameras to identify road traffic violations. And setting up fuses for people who warn that these cameras are working and they're fixing. Neither the first nor the second is fulfilled today. In fact, the law doesn't work. We accepted it, but its standards are not implemented. Another problem. The problem of road safety, road safety, is linked to the coordination of three key sectors: the IMF security sector, the health sector and the third is science. In fact, these three bodies need to coordinate and finally adopt a concept, a general strategy, a vision, as we do and how we will ensure security in Ukraine. Today we have 2016. In 2015, the road safety programme in Ukraine was completed. So today in Ukraine, we have no idea how we're going to solve this problem. And that's what these government authorities have to answer for. And the last thing is to inform people. It's a very important question. Today, there is no single vehicle registration database. I don't know if you've met, I've actually faced this problem myself, that the base, it's not consistent. You can't go in today and look, for example, at whom or whether this machine, for example, is a doppelganger, whether it's the original, whether it's a legally imported car or not. Because there's actually no database that he's responsible for, again, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. All these questions, they need a solution, a system solution, and a system vision. I think the hearings are just going to give them an opportunity to answer these questions. And we hope that the public authorities will respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u149	Thank you. The National Deputies of the Self-Help Association pass the word to the next colleagues of the other factions. National MP Vitaly Korchik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I've been to these hearings, too. He was present and heard of all the troubles we have with the safety of the movement. But unfortunately, today I hear a lot about what the IMF and the police are doing nothing about it. I want to say the next thing. Long before these hearings, we and the committee were present at the presentations on the projects to install those cameras that were supposed to fix these violations. Yes, we were similarly told by the committee that this is imperfect and that we still need to work on it. But what's not going in that direction is going to be false. So what I'd like to say is that it's not just about the cameras. And I know that now the road police are working to reduce speed on the roads. And that's the main cause of road deaths and all that. I also agree that it is the local community that the mayors take care of the safety of the movement directly in their places, that they set up the same tournaments, perhaps some restrictive and similar bans, so that even a child cannot escape if it is, moreover, the road of national importance passes through a population point. That's why there's a problem. We're working on it. And I think by working together with all the factions, we're going to go to her solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u151	Thank you. National Deputy Sidorovich, Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, when discussing road safety, we need to understand clearly that this is a problem that has a number of components. And it has already sounded from the leader of our faction about the need to provide light for pedestrian crossings, as is the case in all normal countries. But it is the same as ensuring that our roads are illuminated, at least in populated areas. What is happening to us today? On March 1st, the decision of NCRE came into force, which increased the rates for nightlighting of the population stations by almost 2.5 times. The result of this is certainly going to be the darkness on our streets and the increase in criminality as a result of those accidents that will be due to lack of education, exactly as the result of the increase in criminality will be happening because the elementary streets will not be illuminated. No one considered that the budgets of local governments for 2016 had already been established. Nobody thought the same about the element of energy security. And this irresponsible decision creates a danger both on the roads and on the streets of our cities and villages, and so on the energy security sector. And the last. It's about road safety. Those who travel the country to the farthest parts of the country, and not only far away, well know that it is absolutely impossible to reach certain locations. And without providing adequate funding and quality control for the roads we need to build, road safety will be absolutely, obviously impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of Ostap Ednak. None. The next one is the National Deputy Vladimir Ariev, the Block of Petra Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, speaking of the road safety and traffic safety system, we are now forgetting one very important aspect: the parking Armageddon that is taking place on the streets of the great Ukrainian cities. Today, Ukraine is one of the few countries in the European community that does not have well - organized and approved parking rules and penalties for parking. Dear friends, let's face it, that's a lot of people. One of those who sat in the hall became heroes or anti-hero stock called "The Parking Hero." So we throw cars where we want them, we don't pay attention to the signs. And it often happens to the members of the Supreme Council, and to ordinary citizens, with all of them. But the question of how to solve this is very simple: putting in place European parking control and parking penalties. Dear friends, we in the Supreme Council have finally agreed between the majority of factions 2 of Bills 3584 and 3585, which clearly and unequivocally regulate these norms. We can now make clear, transparent and absolutely European parking and parking rules, because today the police can't even fine a wrong parked car that can stand on the lawn because there's no owner around. And the owner who sees he's not around. The police will just sit there and wait for the police to leave because they can't stand by this car all day. That is what often causes self - justice. And we see it in the news over and over again, as shown by the cars that were burned by the occupants of the wakers, where those who are not very aware of the citizens are parked on the lawns. In order to make it impossible for the courts to do so, these two bills are proposed. I am addressing two committees, from law enforcement and budget issues, in the next plenary week, to include 3584 and 3585, respectively, in the agenda of the committee meetings. And soon, in April, to put these bills to the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to consider and vote in favour of them in order to make parking rules in Ukraine finally become European, and there was the same European responsibility for violating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u155	Ever since the MP's People's Will, please, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The question is vital, since statistics show that the most people are dying on the roads. At the same time, it's obvious that the main cause of this situation is bad roads, and more specifically, they're practically gone. If there were directions before, there were no directions left today and no roads left. I'll give you one example: the Kiev-Chop Highway. The question is, how much money has already been invested, including in preparation for the Euro-2012, and so far this highway, this road has not been completed, and again, according to the messages, is being invested, but there are no real results. There are no pedestrian crossings, no traffic lights required. Let me give you an example, dear colleagues. In the village of Pishtów on this route is the Novograd-Wallin district of the Žitomir region. There's a walkway where 20 people have already been hit and killed, after each death, I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Road Service, to either make the transition, or set the lights, and we've managed to set up a traffic restriction sign. Please tell me, how can you limit traffic on a highway? People continue to die. Today, I would like to request that this request be considered as a parliamentary request, a direct request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ukrainian Road Service so that it does not take place with the receipts, and at least once a representative went to the people and explained why the traffic lights could not be installed. I don't think he'd come out alive. Clearly, a decision must be taken, paying particular attention to the problem of roads, as the main cause of the tragedy of the loss of lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u157	Thank you. We completed our consideration of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Stand and prospects for road safety in Ukraine." Thank you to all the deputies who have participated in the discussion and we will make a decision on this later. We are now going to consider Bill No. 3832 amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interim Occupied Territory of Ukraine (as regards the right to education). The rapporteur is Minister of Education and Science Kvet Sergey Mironovich. Mr. Sergey, are you proposing a full or shortened procedure? I would like to ask the rapporteur to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. [[13:45:14]] For 101 I am very happy that the MPs liked to consider the full procedure of the drafts, so let's move on to the full procedure. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! I am introducing a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine. The right to education for persons from a temporarily occupied territory is one of the main tasks of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in the context of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Since the spring of 2014, the Ministry has taken the necessary steps to address the emergency situation by ensuring the rights of persons to acquire or continue to gain a certain level of education in other regions of Ukraine. As a result, despite the problems of under-budget funding, the issue of continuing to receive education in an area under the control of the Ukrainian government was resolved expeditiously without any bureaucratic or other obstacles. However, taking into account the long - term nature of the challenges associated with the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, the resolution of the mechanisms for ensuring educational rights requires more systematic and objective solutions. In particular, law-enforcement agencies have pointed out the need not only to ensure the right to education for temporarily displaced persons, but also to encourage the continuation of education in other regions of Ukraine for those of our citizens who have remained in occupied territory. Law 3832 offers systems to address the educational problems of people living in occupied areas. These main mechanisms are two. First, we propose to introduce quotas for higher and vocational education by criminals who live in a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, which will encourage young people to make systemic choices, consciously aware, sorry, in favour of continuing learning in Ukraine. I mean, our first thesis is quotas. Secondly, the bill proposes that persons who have completed their studies at an appropriate level of higher education in the temporarily occupied territory be allowed to undergo certification for the recognition of partial qualifications, periods and outcomes of the learning process, with the subsequent issuance of the relevant educational document. Such a mechanism will promote the right of individuals to education and encourage them to continue learning or to realize their right to work in an area controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. What are we talking about, colleagues? Our policy is that we do not define any documents from the occupying authorities. So we're proposing an appropriate mechanism that we will recognize qualifications, not a document with the seals of the occupying power. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is also our support for both the Crimean Tatars and all the patriots of Ukraine who are looking for opportunities for Ukrainian education, including all those who are now making their own choices. We have to offer these people conditions that will allow them to feel needed and competitive. Please support Bill 3832 and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u159	Thank you, Minister. Wait, please. Is there a question for the minister? Yes. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Education. Please, the People's Deputies of Krivoshia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u160	Thank you. Good afternoon! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for the next one. In the Cave district there is the so - called Boychuk Institute, located on the street of Kikwidze. Please tell me, for today, there is a situation that the institution in question, which in fact is not there. One hand is enough to count it, and they want to close it today -- once -- and hand over the premises and actually a part of the institution to the balance of the Kiev City Authority. I would like to draw attention to what has become known to me today as the national deputy, to which students refer as deputies. I realize that's not the subject. I'm right here, here I am! I would like to point out that there is a threat to the sale of these premises by the Kiev authorities, as well as the removal of this land for the so - called corrupt developers of this area. I would like to draw your attention to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u161	10 seconds, please finish your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u162	I would like to draw attention to the fact that, today, the Ministry does not agree with the statutes of the institution, and in the summer, they end up with a license. I'd like you to consider that. If you can explain something right now, explain, if not, please explain later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u163	Thank you for your question, however, which does not apply to the subject of our very important bill. In short, I'm going to say that, in my opinion, there was once a big mistake that this technology, this was a good technique, became an institution. Unfortunately, he can't be an institution, he doesn't. He has not been accredited, and that is an objective fact. As a ministry, we care that this facility actually continues to do what it does -- train designers, train artists and so on. And your second question about the land and the shells of this school. We also worry and make sure that they do not fall into the hands of the builders. That's what I can say right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u164	Thank you. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u165	It means, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u166	Let's do it, ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, ladies and gentlemen, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please. Turn on the minister's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u167	Look, our task, I'll make it brief so that this educational facility, whatever its name is and in what status it would not be further, because they have no accreditation to continue preparing designers and artists there, and this is our main task not to change the assignment of land or buildings so that it doesn't fall into the hands of the builders. We care about that, and that's our job. [[B in m in s a l in]] To whom? No, it's another completely different question, because it's about the continuation of a teaching facility. And one of the choices that this institution itself has offered is that it becomes part of a larger education facility. So this is just one way, one way, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you. I understand we're so happy to have a minister from among us and we can ask him questions, but we're discussing a very important bill. And I would still ask that the questions apply to this bill. Please, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u169	Sergei Mironovich, I am most grateful that you respect the MPs and report the laws. I have a question for you to help solve one problem. Two villages were merged in Novograd-Wallin district of Žitomir region: the village of Jaron (formerly the district centre) and the village of Mladic. The distance is 4 kilometers. There are 58 children in school. Because of the unification and now one locality, the local authorities said that they had no right to decide the issue of children’s transportation. I remind you: 4 kilometers, there are no roads, there's no direction, there's no children, it's 58, it's the whole school. Helping you solve this problem is the first thing that kids get picked up. And the second. There is a technique of earth order with great traditions. With heavy fighting, the Ministry of Education was transferred to the balance sheet with the MinAPC of the dormitory. The album will not be built at the moment. Wouldn't it be better to give it to people to create a cooperative and solve the problem of housing?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. Thank you for asking. Of course, we will do all of this. We're about to see this with you on the committee. I'd like to write down the specifics, and we'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u171	Thank you, Minister. We finished the questions to the minister. Here's to the report. No, time for questions is up. Please report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Education and Science has considered the bill and has supported the bill on its key idea. Because it is very important for us that those children who remain in occupied areas have the opportunity to learn from the Ukrainian educational institutions, because they are the intellectual basis that we will need when we are deposing these territories. Today, the Russian Federation creates a variety of tax conditions to involve these children in its higher education system. And we have no right to push them away, but we have to do everything we can to integrate them into Ukrainian society. That's why we support this bill. But there are a number of observations from the Scientific and Scientific Administration, as well as comments from the Committee. And I'm proposing, understanding that we need to adopt this bill as soon as possible, because we need to include the bill's position in the terms of acceptance that are already approved and which should be in effect, here's the end of the school year. So I want to post these amendments as a transcript to take them into account and so we can vote on the basis as a whole, namely, we have three revisions. First. In section I of the bill, paragraph 5 of section 12 of article 7 of article 34 reads: "The persons referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this section shall obtain higher, on competitive grounds and vocational education, at the expense of the State budget within quotas and in a manner determined by the central executive authority that ensures the formation of public policy in the fields of education and science." The point is that, according to the Constitution, access to higher education is on competitive grounds. And even within quotas, these people should demonstrate their willingness to get higher education. Second order. In section I of section 6 of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, after the words “for the recognition of the qualifications acquired” after the coma to be completed with the words “the results of learning and periods of learning” and further in the text. This is actually about taking into account not only the complete qualifications that have been acquired, for example, full general secondary education, but partial learning outcomes. For example, children in Russian - speaking schools can be recalculated for mathematics, physics, and chemistry. But they are obliged to produce a completely different series of subjects that they did not study at the school: Ukrainian language, Ukrainian literature, and Ukrainian history. So there's a language that has to be complemented by the words "learning outcomes and periods of learning." And finally, the third amendment. Chapter I of the bill is to be supplemented by a new paragraph in the following context. In the title of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine, the word "citizens" should be replaced by "persons". What is it? Of these occupied territories, especially Crimea, some of these children were forced under the pressure of the Russian Federation to obtain Russian passports. And in that case, we view them as foreigners who come to us to learn only on a paid basis. To expand this category, that's why we're making this change. So, honourable colleagues, this is a very important bill that awaits the Ukrainians of Crimea and the Ukrainians of Donbas, who are now in occupied territories and want their children to learn in Ukraine. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Is there a question for a coconspirator? Mrs. Lilia, wait a minute. No questions asked by the co-rapporteur. Thank you. Any questions to the co-conspirator? Then a question - and - question recording is conducted. We continue our session until the conclusion of our consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] By the 15th, everyone will be on the committee. We have to finish our consideration of the question, we cannot stop in the middle of the question. Please, National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u174	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I have a question like this for the reporter, which is essentially the question. Please tell me, as a representative of the coalition, as a majority representative of one of the largest factions of the Supreme Council, how did it happen that, when we consider such a very important issue in the context of reintegration and the return of occupied territories and the linkage with occupied territories, how did it happen that we have the vast majority of the coalition deputies now not in the session room but elsewhere, not in their jobs? And how do you personally, as an reporter for this important law, respond to this question, will any of these conclusions be drawn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u175	I have to be responsible for my faction, which, usually, if you look at the results of being in the voting room, is the most numerous. In this situation, when we suddenly went to the full consideration of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, and there were no votes in the room at all, there was a situation that was about to end, and maybe that's why the colleagues left. I stand on my own principled questions that a deputy should always be in the hall when dealing with matters from the 10th to the 14th, and I don't support the actions of colleagues who leave the hall until the 2nd hour. Because this does not allow us to accept the important questions that so many people in Ukraine are facing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u176	Thank you, Madam Chairman of the Committee. Please Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u177	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. There is absolutely no objection to supporting this bill, because it is really necessary to integrate children from occupied territories into Ukrainian education, to provide them with quality education in an area that is not occupied in Ukraine. But at the same time, I'd like to read you, well, the public administration's page, one of the things that I'd like to do, is to study the possibility of organizing students to take them to schools by car, by means of a legal basis, by paying for their work, and so on. How can we integrate children from occupied territories into totally unsuited conditions here in unoccupied territory and ride horses and fiascos to school and give such nonsense as the Chernobyl Administration gives?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u178	Please, Madam Minister. Ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u179	I fully share your assessment of such an assignment, because, above all, if you are to take children somewhere, their safety and access to, indeed, quality education must be ensured. There's no point in driving if they don't get into quality education. For the integration of children from occupied areas. This is about, of course, access to higher education in this bill. But we also need to understand that we have a huge number of children displaced from the occupied territory of Donbas, and they are also in Western Ukraine, and in the Chernivese region, too. But whether the children are local or the children are displaced, they must be in decent conditions. That's why there's this support school project, and that's why the government's got 600 million dollars to drive the kids. To these 600 million dollars, local administrations have to add their share and resolve the issue of transportation. Apparently, I'm ready to go with you to the district administration for this ridiculous task.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u180	Thank you. National MP Rybchin, Alexy Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u181	Good afternoon. Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear Sergey Mikhailovich, Reverend Lilia Mikhailovna, thank you for supporting the displaced higher education institutions, displaced persons and those in need of this education. And there will be a number of bills that we are drafting with you regarding the status of transferred higher education institutions because they need some other requirements. I also want to point out that, let's try to draft a bill or some special conditions for admission to these displaced higher education institutions of people who are now forced to be in the occupied territory of Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimea. Because we have to support these higher ones. Perhaps under some special circumstances, for a year, you can give up a COD or something so that people can cross the border and get into higher education institutions, perhaps under the conditions of the passing of an exam from the Ukrainian language. Then we send a signal to those areas: learn Ukrainian if you want to have a future. And under tax conditions, these students can only get in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I would like to report that, as a result of the exit meeting of the Committee on Education and Science to Kramatorsky, we have made proposals to the Ministry of Education and Science on the grounds that those graduates who are now studying in occupied areas and who are difficult to prepare for an external independent full-scale evaluation could, on preliminary examinations, enter the evacuated higher education institutions and higher education institutions that are now in the area of Donbas and suffer from the lack of abjects. Because of the fact that families are careful to send their children to study in the territory of Donbas. And in view of the fact that Donbasu’s higher education institutions do not have a sufficient number of graduates. I hope that the Ministry of Education and Science will listen to this proposal because it is a situation in which children are winning.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u184	30 seconds, finish up, please, Lilia Mikhailovna. Please turn on the microphone for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u185	Children who are able to enter occupied areas and higher education institutions to be preserved now in Donbasa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u186	Thank you. We have time to discuss factions. The factions will prepare for the record, please. Please record for discussion. Please, National Deputy Lazko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u187	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Finally, our Ukrainians, who because of not being protected by the authorities, became displaced on their home land, came into this Parliamentary Hall. God will not allow anyone on his home earth to be displaced, refugees, people without a place to live. Nearly 2 million Ukrainians, residents of Lugansk and Donetsk region lost their homes, lost their jobs, lost all their possessions, but they did not betray the country. How does Ukraine’s mother repay them? No, unfortunately, because neither the authorities nor the government, not those who are now able to make decisions, will punch their finger to help and create conditions for 2 million people who have lost their homes. In Germany, 1 million refugees from Syria and Germany are number one. The Chancellor's ratings are falling, almost a government coalition is collapsing over a million refugees from Syria. In Ukraine, 2 million Ukrainians have no jobs, no housing, no social security, no health care, and no problems for anyone, and no one is interested in their questions. I call on representatives of the government, representatives of the President's Administration, heads of the district administrations, go to Severodoneck, go to any other city in Lugansk, Donetsk or Kiev, see how the Ukrainians we call displaced people live, 10 people together with children in small rooms, like in the cones. Without the possibility of receiving medical care, they are not employed. Who's asking how these people survive, where they take money to pay for rented apartments? Where do they work? No one deals with these issues, a totally absent state policy aimed at integrating the displaced into peaceful life. We have thousands of abandoned schools, hospitals, kindergartens in Ukraine. Why there is no basic government program to put windows, doors, and opportunities for displaced persons to live in these facilities? Why is there no State support for the employment of Ukrainians, which we call displaced? Because I think it's a humiliation for Ukrainians to call them settlers because the authorities didn't protect them. The government has betrayed Doneck, Lugansk, Crimea, and is not yet solving the social problems of millions of people in these areas. So our task today is to create all conditions for them, at least for them to make money, and to do so, we need to radically change economic policy. And most importantly, bring them home, freeing Crimea and Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u188	Thank you. National Deputy Vitaly Kurilo, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u189	Dear National Deputies! Dear TV setters! I think today's bill, which we're looking at, is much broader than the bill is purely educational. The point is that this bill covers a very large spectrum, and above all, a range of national security for many years to come. I may say such a store, but in my opinion, this bill is far more important than yesterday's laws that applied to the visa-free regime. The visa-free regime may be used by several hundred or thousands of people in our country, and this law will benefit hundreds of thousands and millions of people, especially children, can, let me put it this way. I am definitely in favour of enabling children in occupied areas to study at Ukrainian educational institutions, but in my opinion, we have to go much further. Why is this a strategic issue and a national security issue? Because I think we should get the most children out of that area -- the occupied zone -- into Ukrainian territory, because that's our future. By getting the children out of there, by teaching at Ukrainian educational institutions, we are preparing the basis for the return of these areas. We leave the terrorists with a social base. So we have to do everything we can to get the children who are in that area to come to Ukraine, to enter educational institutions of different levels on a competitive basis, uncompetitive, we have to give these children a guaranteed dormitory and we have to write this down legislatively, we have to give these children social assistance because they left without the parents who are in that area. And we have to provide these children with both education and work. And so we're going to get the future out of there. And ours. And we'll leave those terrorists there without their future. So by upholding this law, I think it's just the first step. We need to make urgent decisions, which, perhaps at the level of the government, must go through appropriate government decisions in order to give today such a signal to the inhabitants of Lugansk and Donetsk, who are occupied to send their children to "the great Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u190	Thank you. We're moving on to the discussion. On behalf of the National Deputies, please sign up for the talks. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're closing the question, we can't stop the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're about to finish our consideration of the question – and that's it! This is the last part of the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Alexander Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I agree that this bill must be accepted with the amendments that Lilia Mikhailovna said. But I want to pay attention to everyone, this is a very important moment, Oleg Valeriyovich, and this is very interesting information for you. Look, we've written a bill that has to make sure that children from Crimea come to Ukraine. But does this bill solve the issue? In my opinion, no. Why? Because Putin gives 15,000 places without JH for criminals. What about our bill? It creates barriers for children to travel from Crimea to Ukraine. Then perhaps we should understand that if we are fighting for Crimea, if we are fighting for these children, we must make special arrangements for them to move in. And we're writing that they're going to be participating in the TNZ, and they're going to have the same problems as our kids. Dear colleagues, if we are to resolve the matter of the return of Crimea by this law, please, we must go on, and we must make special arrangements for them during the temporary occupation. So I think that the law needs to be adopted, but we need to understand that the main objective is not fully addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u192	Thank you. National MP Arthur Gerasimov, "Peter Prashenko's Block"
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I will try very briefly. You know, without going back, without speeding back to Donbas, Crimea to Ukrainian space, I mean, educational cultural space, we're not going to have a real only Ukraine. I just got back from Marianne, and I can tell you right away that the program. And there, along with our colleagues from various parts of Ukraine, we started a program of moving the areas of Ukraine over the areas of the Donetsk Region. And for example, the Poltava region took over the Mariana region. And the first thing we did was we went to Mariana School No. 1. And that's where, you know, how nice it was when people living in Mariana, who, let's say not all of our, let's say, adjectives, they clearly supported this initiative, that we started it from children, right from schools, right from educational institutions. So I can immediately say that the interfractional merger of the "European Donbas" faction of the "Peter Prashenko Block" will clearly support this bill. Why? Because once again, without Donbas' return, I mean the occupied portion of Donbas without returning the occupied Crimea to the only Ukrainian space, starting with the children, we will do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sergei Ruddick, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u195	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkas region, Smila, Kamyanka, and many other villages in the Coldwater region. Society, I'm very ashamed that in the presence of the minister, the heads of the profile committee, we are discussing this bill in an empty hall, honestly, shameful. This is an extremely important bill, because it gives people who believe in Ukraine an opportunity to return to Ukraine, to have higher education and to work for it. I'm sure, like a lot of my colleagues who, despite everything in this room right now, aren't going to the committees that aren't going to eat right now, haven't gone to the bathroom. That these young people that we now support, and I hope that we will not vote today, but we will conclude with a discussion, and that tomorrow, one of the first drafts of this bill will be discussed in this sessionary room, they will say thank you very much. So let's not take the time, let's talk until the end, after a quick procedure, and tomorrow we're one of the first to vote. We will be told thanks to those young people for whom we raise this question. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, one last speech. National MP Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u197	I won't take up much of the time, my dear colleagues, but taking advantage of the opportunity that today is both the Minister of Education and the Head of the Professional Committee, I'd like to address you on the subject of this crime, if we're talking about education today, higher education. At the University of Chernobyl, while you and I are sitting here today, in this room, a facade column is just being demolished to install an ATM and a terminal. You know, when it's a UNESCO monument, when it's the residence of the Bucovín Metropolitans, when Joseph Glaucus once built a long time ago, he didn't really think that our contemporaries would destroy what they did for us. It's true vandalism. Please get rid of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-16-m0.u198	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, is there a need for a closing word or have we concluded our discussion? We're done. Yeah? Then we completed the discussion of the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the occupied territory of Ukraine (to ensure the right to education). I'm informing you that today at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the theme "30 years after Chernobyl: lessons and perspectives." And I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we continue our work at ten o'clock.
