ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council registration room. We're starting our morning session. I want to emphasize that we did enough work yesterday, passed a number of laws in Ukraine and in the defence field, and we finally approved the State guarantee for the purchase of gas in our Western partners. So today is traditionally our day of ratification. Before we begin our work, please, dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:02:46]] 305 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In connection with the election and appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine should lead us to the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that we will now do with you. And I want to inform you, dear colleagues, attention, please! The President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] As well as Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] Head of the Constitutional Court, Yuri Baulin. Please. And the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk. Judges of the Constitutional Court who were appointed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, on November 13, 15th, the 13th Congress of Judges of Ukraine was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Krivenk Viktor Vasilovich. On January 26, 2016, President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, by his decree, appointed Viktor Pavlovich and Moysik Volodymira Romanovich as judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, when taking office, swears to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor Vasilovich Krivenko, a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u2	I, Krivenko Viktor Vasilovich, solemnly swear that I will faithfully and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. To ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u3	Welcome. I invite you to take an oath on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Victor Pavlovich Wheeler. Please, Victor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u4	I, Wheeler Viktor Pavlovich, solemnly swear that I will faithfully and conscientiously perform my high duties as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. To ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u5	Congratulations. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Volodymyr Romanovich Moysik, is invited. Please, Vladimir Romanovich. Not for the first time, right, on the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u6	I, Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u7	Hello. Dear fellow national MPs, let us once again welcome the judges of the Constitutional Court, wish them success in their work in office. Welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, for taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we continue our work. In accordance with the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u8	Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich. Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u9	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! We're talking a lot in this room with you about the need to restore the economy, to create jobs. I want to draw your weight that yesterday we took a very important step towards restoring the economy, I mean reforming antitrust legislation and that bill that we all voted with you yesterday. This refers to the mechanism of effectiveness in controlling economic concentrations and the actual failure of the Antimonopoly Committee to control small businesses. And so we allow the Antimonopoly Committee to focus exclusively on monopolies, exclusively on big businesses, exclusively on companies whose activities can actually affect the economy. This is a step towards the development of competition, this is a step towards the development of the economy in Ukraine. At the same time, unfortunately, yesterday we did not find unity in Parliament in supporting another very important bill. The bill refers to the imposition of the obligation to calculate fines imposed by the Antimonopal Committee for infringements in the field of competition law. You know, yesterday Parliament split up the question of whether to empower the courts to change the fines imposed by the Antimonopoly Committee on their own discretion or to refrain from this mandate until you and I work with you on appropriate practices until we do, again, this order of settlement of fines and thus prevent the uneven application of legislation. Yesterday I was approached by the Competition Law Committee of the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine, who, watching our discussion with you, volunteered to help us not to lose this very important bill. And we're just going to process it for second reading, studying all the best practices in European countries, and on the one hand. On the other hand, to implement these practices into our Ukrainian legislation in such a way as to take into account our Ukrainian realities -- the realities that are currently taking place both in the judicial system and in the Antimonopoly Committee. So I hope that we will not lose this bill under number 2431 and prepare it qualitatively for the second reading, and we will be able to bring Parliament around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u10	Welcome to the People's Deputy, Musia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u11	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Oleg Musei, National Control political party, Sokaland, Red Town. I would like to contact you with the following information and with the horror that continues to be created in the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and in the current government. You've all witnessed and supported, thank God, an additional 500 million in the last year's budget for the construction of the OHMATDIT clinic. We were all convinced that the old Yank schematics and schematics of Sashi-stomatologist, who used the Euro-2012 investment project for the construction of OHMATDIT, would be completed. In fact, for lobbying many national MPs, as well as lobbying Mr. Kvetashvili's minister of health, as well as for the total "indulgence" of Mr. Pereznik's deputy health minister, it became another covert fact that almost 90 million dollars had been removed from the budget last year under corruption schemes, and this was for the new authority of the firm that built OHMATDIT, whose principal "breeder" is Alexander Janukovic. The Minister of Health, Mr. Kvetashvili, signed the order to create a state-owned enterprise instead of a limited company responsible for the construction of the OHMATDIT Food Project and the appointment of the same person, Mrs. Koval, who was in the time of the Sashi dentist, the main schemer and the main money launderer from the state budget. Thus Minister Kvetashvili signed an order to appoint her head of state - owned enterprise after the construction, now under the new post - Maidan authorities, at a time when the absolute lack of budgetary resources is headed by a state - owned enterprise at the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. And on the last day of December 27 or 28, in fact, when the Treasury ceased to work, there was an unprecedented fact under the appointment of Minister Kwiatashvili and Deputy Minister of the Intercession. During one day, the deputy minister of Umanski is changing the state program and almost 90 million dollars are going to the old Sashi dentist company. I ask you to consider my statement as an official parliamentary address to the Head of the Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine and to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, to the Attorney-General on the inadmissibility of the facts that I have heard from this rostrum and the prompt investigation. And drawing Mr. Kwiatashvili and Mr. Perez, deputy minister, to immediate criminal responsibility. Opening criminal cases and reporting to parliament on how the funds that are not available today are being stolen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u12	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u13	Once again, they're being ripped off by new officials. Please consider this an official parliamentary request, and I look forward to an answer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u14	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front. Passes the word Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u15	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. Just before the president of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, maybe he was detained in the towers there, watching the broadcast. Peter Alexiyovich, I want to turn to you two months ago, from this rostrum I have been addressing the activity or the inactivity of the head of Mr. Gunczyk's Volin district administration. He demanded, begged, persuaded, removed this man from office, and negotiated with your colleagues here in the hall, with the representatives of the Peter Prashenko Block, and with the President's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kowalczuk. Mr. President, literally over the past two months, we've been doing miracles in the area. For example, the governor of the administration in the Ratniv district, a counselor who was sent to Kabmin as a candidate for the head of the RDA, was caught in a state of drunkenness and was dealing with tender issues there. This is the man that Mr. Gunczyk wants to see in charge of the district administration. Excuse me, is this a job? Literally a week ago, one of the deputy heads of the Kivertsze district of Trejak was caught in a bribe by representatives of the BSS and the militia. Question: Is this bringing up or is this some other situation, some other mechanism? And these are unique cases. If anyone thinks that in these two months we've had a good time with amber -- and no one washes amber on Volina, I'm sorry, it's wrong to think that. And it's the same responsibility of the governor, because the law enforcement authorities have to deal with those issues, but the head of the district administration has to control the situation. Mr. President, I know Mr. Gunchik worked in your 15-year-old car business. So take him to a car factory, keep him making buses, vases, "volunteers" and so on. He's probably doing better there, but he's not the head of the district administration. That's why I'm calling on you on the first, and I'm asking you to make a decision -- and to remove the head of Mr. Gunczyk's district administration from office, and to appoint an energetic, adequate, worthy person to handle the occupation, a professional person who will work for the benefit of Ukraine and the Vollinians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u16	Thank you. Deputy Nechayev conveys the word of Volodymyr Husak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u17	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues. In recent times, the question of holding a party in Donbas, not controlled by Ukraine, has been widely discussed. And it is stressed that these elections are to be held in accordance with Ukrainian legislation through the participation of Ukrainian political parties, with the participation of Ukrainian media campaigns, and these elections are to be held by electoral commissions formed in accordance with the legislation of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine. But, dear colleagues, Ukraine has not yet held such elections. I mean, with the participation of Ukrainian political parties and Ukrainian media in one fifth of the territory of Donbas in Ukraine. This is about cities such as Constantinovka, such as Volnovaha, such as those under the name – Artemovsk and Obrzeginsk – and many others. A total of more than 100 settlements, where there are 350,000 people. In these areas the constitutional powers of the local authorities as well as in the rest of Ukraine ended in October 2015. But the Ukrainian authorities have not yet held the local elections, referring to the issue of security. First, even when this decision was taken, in August 2015 it raised a lot of questions for the inhabitants of those territories, because parliamentary and presidential elections passed there in due course. But what is even more important is that, fortunately, since August 2015, the security situation in Donbas has improved, and this has recently been acknowledged by the President of Ukraine. That's why I and several other national deputies, mostly from the Opposition Block, have submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Decision on the appointment of a local election on 24 April 2016 in more than 100 population locations in Donetské and Lugansk regions. We understand that the safety of people is above all else. And the security situation is constantly changing, so today there is no Marina, Krasnogorovka, Wide and several other cities. And we're ready for a constructive dialogue on a specific list of the polling stations. But local elections must be held wherever possible, and the Supreme Council must protect the constitutional ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u18	Deputy Kozir conveys the word to Dove. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u19	As the people say, "The spring will show you who is king." But some of the stolen ones came up this winter. The Georgian hacker group "Hinkali" hacked Saakashvili's e-mail and published a number of new data that shed light on the dark spots of the Georgian mafia. It follows from this correspondence that a major Odessa construction firm has requested the Governor to allocate 75 hundred of the land belonging to the Ministry of Defence for the construction of multi-tiers on the French Boulevard. On 17 September, and the firm reached out on 29 August, already on 17 September, Saakashvili gave them the land of the Ministry of Defence absolutely free of charge. Already on 20 September, Counsellor Saakashvili requested that the firm be given three apartments, one three-bedroom and two two-bedroom space orders. In a week's time, these three apartments are allocated to Odessa's elite house, called Royal Gardens, at the French Boulevard 60. And hackers have published a correspondence that indicates that one of these apartments is leaving the first Deputy Vladimir Žmak. By the way, you can see what his future bedroom will look like, this is a two-bedroom apartment, apartment number 17 on French Boulevard 60. According to hackers, one of the apartments goes to the Deputy Attorney General, David Sacrarelidze. That's his son-in-law if anyone wants to know. And here's the three-bedroom apartment that went to the head of this corrupt aul, known in Odessa as Mishka Gruinczyk's racketeer. This is what a studio kitchen will look like. And the modestest estimate is that these apartments are worth about $1 million without repairs. And the repairs are now in full swing. And when you study the correspondence, you can see that they now confirm the design of the interior, choose the color of the towels, and choose the space for the shelf, for the books in the toilet. And you know, it's one solution and a million dollars. And they printed decisions like the Zingera machine is going on, and it's going on. And they're holding anti-corruption forums today. I'll tell you what, you'll be running your forums at the Lukyanovo CIZO and you'll be beating with iron bars on batteries. That's how you're going to get beat up, and that's how your forums are going to go. We ask the Attorney General's Office to establish immediately the nominal owners of these apartments and to place and arrest real owners in the next anti-corruption forum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u20	Matvienkov gives the word “Shufrich. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u21	Thank you! Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, I observed with great concern the performances of individual leaders of the political forces and factions who criticized Ukraine for fulfilling its commitments under the Minsk Accords. Tell me, please, when people take up arms, how do we convince them to put these weapons down? These two are the first to agree with them, to convince them that a conflict can be resolved through negotiation and a second way to fight. On 30 June 2014, Ukraine had a choice to continue the truce, to continue negotiations. Seventy-four dead! To pay tribute to the Turk, he knew everyone who had died familiarly. I remember the first person killed in the Donbass fight, he was a Freedom activist. I remember the next one, he was an activist from Harkov. And of course, I know the value of human life and the resolution of such conflicts. I was the author of the first Amnesty Act, which was voted in this Hall and enabled me to try to resolve the conflict in Maidan. I was the author of the law on the amnesty of activists on Donbass who wanted to return to the rightful path. What do we have after a historic order to proceed to the attack on 30 June, which was issued by the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of Ukraine, Poroshenko? The bracelet was then ten, the minimum wage was equivalent to $120, the average wage was about $500. The economy was working. There have been problems in Slavjansk, Kramatorsk, even in separate settlements. But Donetsk, Lugansk, they were Ukrainian. What do we have today? We have tens of thousands of dead, wounded, missing. Today we have a double economy, we have a five-and-a-half-time impoverishment! And it's official statistics. There is no alternative to negotiations. Another military escalation will destroy our country! There is a Yugoslav scenario above our country. What I said a year and a half ago, Obama says today, Merkel, Holland. I don't think anyone in this room has any doubt that I didn't make a deal with them. I call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to assume responsibility and implement the Minsk Agreements, despite the fact that the current power is sabotaging and speculating them. In our unity is the salvation of our country, the well-being of our citizens! Alternatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u22	Excuse me, ma'am. He's giving the word to Illenck Andrew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u23	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I would like to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine that at its meeting yesterday, the Lviv District Council, as well as the Ternopil City Council of the initiative of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, voted and decided to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the President of Ukraine to call for a bill calling for amendments to the Constitution, which would actually legitimize the occupation of the Russian regime in Donbassa and would actually be the implementation of the Putin Plan for the Legal Political Degradation of the Ukrainian State, which is why it started military aggression against us and why, today, including here, the Moscow Fifth Column is shouting from the rostrum and is actually transposing Putin's thoughts, requires Ukraine to accept this plan of surrender. Today, I think it's just the first decisions that the authorities of local self-government are making throughout Ukraine, turning to the higher legislature to stop the rape of the Ukrainian Constitution, to stop the copying of the Constitution under the dictatorship of the aggressor, and to leave this sovereign right to the Ukrainian nation itself, who must first understand that today's external pressure is being tried outside under the dictatorship to force us to accept unacceptable conditions. We understand that today this whole Mino-Normand format, it wasn't in Ukraine's best interest from the start. Why, for example, are the Kremlin itself and its trading partners in Europe, rather than Ukraine's guaranteeing countries, according to the Budapest Memorandum, primarily the United States of America and the United Kingdom? Why even the new Polish president, Andrzej Duda, simply taking office, says that the norm will not bring peace to Ukraine. But the Ukrainian authorities somehow do not support his word. If we do not even listen to the thoughts of our natural allies, who see what this situation can lead to. So we need to understand that today, in the unilateral order of Ukraine, while the Kremlin has not fulfilled any of the so-called Minsk Treaties, it is essentially a life-saving circle that will be overthrown by the Putin regime and the Kremlin. Because they're actually having problems today. Their backward raw economy is collapsing today. They have problems in Russia itself, problems with the North Caucasus, problems with the economy. And now we're going to help them remove the sanctions more quickly so that you can get this breath for a few more years, so that the Russian Empire can hold on. You can't definitely do that. We have to stand on our own, we have to stand on our national interests, we have to listen less to what they say from abroad, no matter which side of it, we have to listen more to the Ukrainian people, we have to understand their interests, and we have to achieve what the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state, is going to be more powerful, and the Russian Empire is going to collapse. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u24	Thank you. Stepan Barna is invited to attend. Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u25	Good afternoon. You know, my friends, Maidan dropped the Yanukovich regime not to let another cabinet of ministers come to power. And the coalition was created just for the breakup. Not for the destruction of Ukraine, not for the plundering of the country, but for the reform of raising economies and bringing Ukraine out of the crisis. And if, in two years, the Yatzenuk, who led the two governments, failed to complete any reform, failed to demonstrate the efficiency of economic development, failed to implement the stated programs, failed to overcome, but increased the system of corruption of power, then it is unlikely that his continued presence in this office will change anything for the better. We tend to think, like all the people, that the government in this composition will not make any changes. The people were willing to endure, to endure, but if they could see that everyone was patient. Regrettably, the majority of the government members who came under Yatzenuk came, not to serve the nation, but to take advantage of the position of office for personal gain and personal gain. So reforming the government, reformatting it by changing a few ministers would have been enough six months ago, but not now. Now the necessary condition is to change the whole government system, because the reform of the economy is only about selling liquid state-owned enterprises, which can essentially not be bankrupt because they are monopolists in their field -- like the Crossroads, like the Odessa Import Plant, like liquor factories. And if this government isn't able to run the normal work of these state-owned enterprises, what it was capable of at all. Small and medium-sized businesses bend, and small farming is artificially bankrupted by taxes to make the farmer give up the land and land pass over the agro-hold, and then carry out his satanic mission to sell this land. Credit is accepted, but where are the results? There is no improvement in life and there is no reform. One of two: either they're ineffectively used or they're just being stolen. But this places a burden on our children and our future. The activity of Habakkuk and Yatsenuk was to blackmail the government, the President and the people: either the exit from the coalition, or not to join the coalition, or reform, the lack of reform, or the holding of a referendum, or the liquidation of the President's Institute. Therefore, Jacinyuk's continued position as Prime Minister is not that it is ineffective, but it is a matter of the national security of our state. Moreover, we do not need Putin for the destruction of Ukraine, which is why we have Yatzenuk. The government has to resign if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u26	Thank you. Dunaev gives the word of Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Chief! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! Here the previous speakers consistently pointed to those who should be responsible: whether the head of the government, or the head of the President's Administration, our President of Ukraine, or individual politicians. But for some reason, MPs, the majority who form a coalition, cannot decide on shared responsibility, on shared responsibility for decisions that are taken in the plenary room and, in particular, on laws that are passed. I would like to draw attention to the law that the Ukrainian people will live with during 2016 -- the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which is a joint responsibility both to the government and to the President who signed it, and to the coalition that voted in favour of the law. And what macroeconomic indicators are set in the set financial document: we will live in 2016 on an unprecedented deficit in the state budget, which has not yet been achieved in Ukraine's independence of 83 billion dollars, we will live in 2016 with an unprecedented amount of government debt and guaranteed government debt of 2 trillion dollars, which is almost 90 percent of gross domestic product. And in this room, there's no way that we're talking about why by signing a loan agreement with our external investors, we've actually sentenced the Ukrainian people to poverty for five to ten years. Because this credit agreement provides for a share of the gross domestic product that will normally grow in the coming years, the transfer by the external investor and the taxation of which, these incomes, we release. What are the preconditions for economic growth we are now talking about? Reforming antimonopoly legislation, as the previous report said, will not help us with the real tax reform that the authorities have undertaken, so we do not have, we do not have, we do not have, we do not have, we do not have, any real reasons for economic growth. Ukraine is actually in a coma because it is possible to support the vitality of this political body by external lending from international financial institutions. When, at the council, does the responsible person say that Ukraine will not last six months because of external lending, what financial and economic growth are we talking about? I would like to point out that because of inflation, 50 percent, unfortunately, we only have an increase in social standards by 12 percent. The minimum wage has not been increased, Ukraine's State Budget Act has halted a number of laws that set social standards, stopped indexation, is carried out within existing financial resources, stopped social standards for such categories of workers or pensioners, veterans of work, teachers, military pensioners, scientists, miners, health workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u28	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u29	Children do not have funds for health care. We're talking visa-free mode here. What visa-free regime with an average pension size of 50 euros? That's 10 million pensioners. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u30	Artemenko and Skuratovski pass on the word Halasyuk. But please try to cut back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow national MPs! Today, every thinker in the country understands that government economic reforms have suffered a fiasco. It's a fragmented set of antisocial and anti-business experiments that made Ukrainians poorer, that didn't improve the business conditions in Ukraine, and that didn't eliminate those huge systemic imbalances that took place in the Ukrainian economy. The main systemic, I stress, systemic economic challenges for Ukraine today are low citizens' incomes and high unemployment. It's an investment deficit, it's a decline in the production and export of domestic products. It's a country's financial and energy dependency. It's a huge shadow economy and social injustice, and it's, across the board, the corruption of public authorities. We're giving absolutely clear diagnosis and prescriptions, but they're still so clear to society today, today we need not just such diagnostics, but we need ways to fix the situation. That is why the Radical Party proposed a five - block complex anti - crisis economic development plan. We have made this open-minded appeal to the President, Prime Minister and Speaker of Parliament to propose that this anti-crisis plan be the basis for a new coalition agreement for the formation of a new coalition and a new government that will execute that request of the society that the citizens have given us when they have delegated us to this House of Parliament. I'm going to go very briefly on these key components of this plan. The first block is radical institutional reforms and overcoming corruption. It includes the complete replacement of the judicial corps and the prosecutor’s office, full, not imitation reagents. Relaunching the state administration system on the basis of a new law with a review of functions and powers, so that the government will act in the interests of the country. It is to establish the personal ownership of the official for the decisions he makes with regard to the citizen, in relation to the entrepreneur. And this is the introduction of a public prosecution institution in criminal proceedings, so that every person in Ukraine has the opportunity to be an anti-corruption prosecutor. This will be a real fight against corruption. The second block is extremely important: financial stability. This is first of all a new restructuring of Ukraine's government debt, which will lead to a real reduction in the debt burden on the economy and to a reduction in the cost of debt service in the state budget. Because there is a restructuring that has not produced the desired result, and today Ukraine deserves the real support of the international world society. And that's why both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President have the opportunity and they have to ask this question: about the write-off of much of Ukraine's government debt. This will make it possible for the economy to develop. The second element of financial stability is the liberalisation of the tax system. This is something that, unfortunately, you and I were unable to spend last year in the form of our Parliamentary Bill 3357. We need to get taxed today, not just at the level of Europe, but to be less. Then we'll be competitive. The third is the control of the country's economic border. It's the elimination of customs, the overcoming of customs smuggling through the introduction of common customs posts, the exchange of information. There's huge costs, there's tens of billions lost on customs. The third block of economic reform is energy independence. It includes the elimination of Naftogazu NAC and the introduction of transparent, legal pricing in the natural gas market. This is in line with the EU's Third Energy Package, which is in line with the needs of Ukrainian citizens, because this will actually reduce the tariffs on natural gas. The second element of this block is the implementation of a national programme to increase natural gas production in Ukraine. This requires specific mechanisms to protect investors, reduce rent, and establish investment incentives for those who extract new fossils. This is the implementation of a state-wide energy modeling program that simulates alternative energy. This will give Ukraine energy independence, which will deprive us of the ability and the need to buy energy resources abroad and to look every year for a country in which to do so. We've got to extract ours. Four, keys. A new economic course. This is the creation of a system of State institutions of economic development mechanisms, export credit agency, state development bank, industrial parks, public private partnership, small business support agency -- all the tools that Poland, Slovakia, Turkey, Malaysia, China came out of poverty and built powerful economies. They have to be used for strong economic warming, to stimulate investment demand, exports and consumer demand to increase GDP. And finally it's accumulating international financial resources from abroad to implement the Marshall Ukrainian plan to give a different speed, a different quality to these economic reforms. And the fifth block, which is extremely important, is a social block, because without social orientation, any reforms in the country are meaningless. The final summation of any reform is the standard of living of citizens, and that's the feeling they see in the future. This economic program will allow for a qualitative change in the situation. That's why we call on all the colleagues in Parliament, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u32	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u33	We call on all the Ukrainian political forces to unite around such an economic development programme, because that's why the people of Ukraine have delegated us here. Fuck us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues! And the last performance, because we started five minutes later, that's -- he was giving Kulinic. And that concludes the speeches by the deputies. Please, Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u35	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! We talk a lot about corruption in the session room, and on land issues, I think that's the most corruption. But as with most people in Ukraine, I have the impression that no one was going to do real business with land corruption. The facts speak for themselves. For over a year, there has been a bill in Parliament 1159 on the transfer to municipal property of state land outside the population. Corruption, which unfortunately takes place today when such lands are managed by the State Department, is huge. I did not fully understand the situation of Bill 3510, which deals with land issues for those communities that are united, such as those we have at the end of the year 159. At the same time, the State Department has registered an alternative bill to which it wants to distribute the land itself and to control itself. And the transfer to municipal property is only made on paper, because it's kind of not defined by the boundaries of the community. Although no one has changed these boundaries in Soviet times, because it is the land that is being paid, it is within these communities. I hope that the bill 2279 will finally be voted out, which prohibits the transfer of state land without auctions, because the bill was successfully passed on to read again. Now let's see what's really going on in places and specifically in Poltavian. Earth is not enough for social workers, for peasants, for ATO soldiers. However, the district authorities of the Dergeokadastr find enough land for the pseudo farmers that no one has ever seen in the village. In recent times, the activity of the Dergeokadastr in the Poltava region is not as harmful as I would call it. Two former executives were released for bribes. For a long time, they can't find a normal expert on this job because the State Department can't do it, or I don't think it will. As a result, complaints come to me from almost all over Poltava. Here are a few figures: the decan region – 400 hectares devoted to the right people; the Mirgorod region – 216 hectares; the Velikobogachan region – 200 hectares were taken from social workers. And so many examples. Yesterday, dozens of social workers from the Mirgorod region – the villages of Harkushinzi and Petrovci – arrived at the Regional Land Administration, requiring their land. The chiefs of the district departments are appointed without experience and expertise. Here's a concrete example: I recently received a letter from the head of the Poltava District Administration, Lydia Lepeiko, complaining that a former secretary was appointed as the head of the Regional Land Administration. Well, what quality of work can we talk about in this case? Moreover, no one with the district manager agreed to the assignment. So once again, I would like to refer to Parliament's leadership. Let's finish talking to land issues, finally start a systematic work with overcoming land corruption. Once again, I would like to address Mr. Martinyuk, head of the Dergeokadaster. Let's finish these personnel in Poltava region. I think it's time to appoint a district manager not a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u36	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u37	It's time for the head of management in Poltava to appoint an experienced, professional person who will not be a "deriban" to deal with land issues, to make arrangements in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've spoken, it's time to work. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. And the issue of ratification is the first chapter of our work. The first is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (0072). Dear colleagues, it's a ratification and, I think, it's right if we look at the simplified procedure. And I'm asking you, fellow MPs, to support this proposal. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take part in the vote. Colleagues, can we vote in favour of a reduced procedure? So please support the consideration of the draft Ratification Act (0072) under the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:15]] For 128 Not everyone got in. I ask you again, colleagues, come in. Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, concentrate. Yeah, ready? Are you in the hall? Please. Once again, I propose to consider the draft law (0072). This is a draft law on short-term ratification. Please vote. Please support. [[10:51:17]] For-141 Colleagues, we can follow full procedure, and there won't be any problems. But then we have little prospect in adopting the laws that exist. So once again, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Can we vote? I'll bet you again if you don't get the votes and we'll follow the full procedure. I am proposing a simplified procedure for the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. Short-term procedure. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[10:52:36]] For 165 Thank you. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Chief of Security of Ukraine, Mr. Bazuk Sergio Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u39	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The objective of this international treaty is to create legal basis for mutual protection of information with limited access to the exchange between the two states in the course of cooperation. The need for this Agreement to be effective is relevant, especially in view of the priorities set out by the National Security Strategy of Ukraine, namely the deepening of defence and military and technical cooperation primarily with NATO and EU Member States, as well as the promotion of rapid and effective exchange of information with these countries on the basis of mutual trust. In view of the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, this international agreement assumes that it is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In connection with this Security Service, a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access, which is agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. In view of the above, I would like to support this bill, which will allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the international treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u40	Thank you. The report invites the Vice-President of the European Integration Committee, Artemenko Andri Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u41	Andrew Artemenko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. The honourable head, honourable national deputies, of the Committee on European Integration, reviewed the bill on ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on mutual protection of information with limited access (registration No. 0072), introduced by the President of Ukraine, approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came from the fact that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the agreement to be valid. The agreement was signed in Kiev on February 10, 2015. The signing and ratification of this agreement is based on the need for legal principles to protect information with limited access that will be exchanged between the parties in the course of cooperation. The agreement ensures an equal partnership in the information exchange process and obliges the parties to take the necessary measures to protect the information they receive when they cooperate with restricted access information The content of the agreement is consistent with international practice. This agreement is binding on the competent authorities of Ukraine and Spain to ensure proper State control over the compliance of entities with the requirements of the laws of the parties when communicating information with restricted access. The ratification of the agreement does not entail a correction of existing or adopted new legislation in Ukraine. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is fully in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access can be ratified. In this regard, I appeal to you and ask you to support this covenant as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need for discussion? None. Then I ask the MPs to come into the hall, and now we're going to the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies. To invite members and heads of factions to the Hall to inform the deputies that there will be a vote to return to the Chamber and take part in the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Report the vote. Can we vote now, colleagues? We can. Please, we're taking up jobs, I'm going to set up an alert first -- that's the first vote today by law. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (0072). Signal vote, 0072. Dear colleagues, please vote, please take part in the vote. Knyazevich, please vote. Please vote, fellows! [[10:59:04]] For 217 I see not everyone has yet entered the hall. I'm asking you to mobilize the special composition of factions of heads and substitutes. I'd like a fellow MP to come into the hall. Colleagues, please, who's in the towers, come into the hall. We take up jobs, we prepare for the vote. And I'm going to re-voting, please. Ratification Act (0072). Signal vote. Please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:00:13]] For the 220. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it, did we? There's no order! It's okay. Fellow MPs, we call a colleague! I see, I see that the deputies in the columns go into the hall, big and small groups. Please take up jobs. Today is such a good day: the temperature is rising, the oil prices are falling -- we have to show the results at work. I see there are large groups of deputies. And I'm putting the signal vote again, 0072. Please support 0072. There's a head, there's a result. Vote 0072. Signal for now. [[11:01:40]] For 232 It's a victory. It's a victory, you have to admit. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (0072) as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we have a total vote of 0072. [[11:02:15]] For 239. Decision taken. Welcome to both the authors of the law, and welcome to the adoption of the ratification. And please don't split up. We're moving on to the next issue of ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u43	Dear fellow national MPs! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Application of the Free Trade Agreement of 18 October 2011 between its Parties and the Republic of Uzbekistan (0060). He reports to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development because today, you know, the day of the Cabinet meeting. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please support this proposal. Vote. Short - term consideration. Please be supportive. Short - term consideration. [[11:03:28]] For-167 Thank you. Decision taken. Please report. Deputy Minister Natal Jaroslavna Mikolska
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u44	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill provides for the implementation of internal procedures to become effective by the Protocol on the Standstill of the Free Trade Zone Treaty of 11 October 2011 between its Parties and the Republic of Uzbekistan of 31 May 13. I would like to point out that there is no secret to anyone that the Agreement and the SND Free Trade Zone are now not the most predictable and reliable area of free trade, primarily because of the actions of the Russian Federation. But there is no need to forget trade with our other partners, especially those export partners that are more than imported from these countries. Uzbekistan is such a country. It's very important for us to stick around now, to put allies around us within the SND free trade zone so that our exports don't go down. In this regard, we believe that, in order to counter the aggression of the Russian Federation, including in the commercial sphere -- as you know, the Russian Federation of January 1 has restricted our transit not only to Kazakhstan, but also to countries of the SND and countries of Asia -- and that is why it is very important for us to fight this aggression. The task of this aggression is not only to limit transit but also to remove Ukrainian goods from the Asian market, including from the Uzbekistan market. In this regard, we propose and ask you to support our agreement and to support the protocol for the accession of Uzbekistan to the Free Trade Agreement. It is very important now to establish trade rules with Uzbekistan, which are provided for in the protocol and to directly attach exceptions to free trade, which are still working with Uzbekistan in free trade. We'd like you to support this protocol. And in order to promote the expansion of our trade relations with Uzbekistan, to confirm our agreement and the agreement of Uzbekistan not to apply restrictive measures in the free.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u46	And secure the list of goods that. to which we will not apply this regime. I very much ask you to support this protocol, which is very important for the development of our trade and economic relations with Uzbekistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u47	Thank you. Please. The head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Anna Mikolayevna Hopko, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Ukrainians! I would like to support what Natalia Mikolska has just said and say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 27 November 2015, has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Application of the Treaty, on the Free Trade Zone of 18 October 2011 between its parties and the Republic of Uzbekistan, and has approved a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the said project and ratify the agreement. Why is this important to us? Since January 1st everyone knows that the Free Trade Agreement has become effective with the European Union, but there are still many steps to be taken, just as with. in order to obtain a visa-free regime so that our goods can appear in the markets of the European Union. Here. And likewise, we need to take on new markets, and it's very good that the Ministry of Economics finally presents a strategy for the promotion of Ukraine's exports today at a committee meeting where there will be a separate issue: the economy of external relations. And we want to see what free trade agreements will be scheduled for signature this year, and that's very important. Why is Uzbekistan also important? Because there is a powerful Ukrainian diaspora and also, the market of Uzbekistan with more than 30 million people is attractive to Ukrainian producers. And in recent times, there has been a significant increase in domestic companies’ efforts to expand their supply to Uzbekistan in market conditions in other SND countries. So it's absolutely beneficial for our domestic companies to have a treaty that needs to be ratified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u49	Thank you. Please two "for", two "against". Please two for, two for against.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u50	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the ratification of this agreement. It's actually, honourable fellow MPs, I want to pay attention, it's an important strategic document. In 2008, the trade between Ukraine and Uzbekistan was nearly $2 billion. Today it's 607 million. So we have the opportunity to prove the trade between two countries in billions. This is of great importance to us, including the fact that more than 110,000 Ukrainians live in Uzbekistan! Dozens of business associates! Nearly 50,000 Uzbeks live in Ukraine. And the relationship, the bilateral relationship between our two countries, is a very important strategic issue, given that Uzbekistan has huge reserves of gas, useful fossils. And Uzbekistan is our partner in Central Asia! Let's look at the situation internationally. Today, Uzbekistan is not the only country in Central Asia that is trying to pursue a policy independent of Russia. And that's why Uzbekistan is our ally in this region. Therefore, I urge the Ukrainian Parliament not to be shy or five times not to vote in favour of the ratification of a treaty, but for the first time, 300 votes in favour of strategic cooperation with brother Uzbekistan! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u52	Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u53	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! I am a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group of Ukraine-Uzbekistan. And I want to say that we have repeatedly discussed this issue with the Ambassador of Uzbekistan in Ukraine. And this question has had to happen, unfortunately, in recent years. If I'm not mistaken, this protocol can never be ratified in the last four years. It is extremely important to ratify it today, both in the light of economic considerations and the possibility of developing Ukrainian economic relations and the political plan. Because it is one of the few countries in Post - Soviet space that is now ready to develop economic ties with our nation in the face of Russian aggression. Therefore, I appeal to all national deputies to support this protocol in order to develop our ties with the Republic of Uzbekistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to take all your seats and please support the ratification issue, Law 0060. Please prepare for the vote on the ratification of the Protocol on the Application of the Free Trade Treaty of 18 October 2011 between its Parties and the Republic of Uzbekistan. Please take your seats. Ready? On the basis and in general, please support this law on ratification. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:12:03]] For 234 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. You have before you the draft Law (Registration No. 0074) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation Municipal Climate Protection Program II (“Chernovci Municipal Water Management Project, Stage 1). Please have a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:12:46]] For a hundred and Thank you. 192. Please Deputy Minister Artem Chevalov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u55	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear National Deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation under the Municipal Climate Protection Programme II (Cernovci Municipal Water Management Project, phase 1). The adoption of the bill will contribute to the completion of an internal state procedure by Ukraine regarding the validity of this agreement. The project is a self-sustaining investment project. The repayment of the loan is expected entirely by the utility "Chernivitzivodokal", which is directly the project's contractor. The inclusion and use of loans in the amounts approved in the 2016 government budget will not increase the spending of Ukraine's public budget. The purpose of the project. This is raising the level of reliability, efficiency and quality of extraction, preparing drinking water and transporting it to consumers through the reconstruction of the existing system of production, supply and distribution of water. The loan is given for 30 years, of which 10 years is the term of the debt, the interest rate is also reduced by 2 percent. The total amount of the project is 26.5 million euros, of which 17 million and 3 million euros are loaned to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, is the financial guarantor of the investment fund of the neighborhood. The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany proposes to ratify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u56	Thank you. Please report to the First Vice-President of the European Integration Committee, Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation is envisaged that the Federal Republic of Germany Government will provide the Cabinet of Ministers or other lenders with the opportunity to obtain credit from the credit institution for reconstruction. I do not want to repeat what has been said in the report of the Ministry of Finance, just to say that the Committee on European Integration has considered the draft Law on the Ratification of this Agreement and recommends that the Supreme Council approve ratification. And I would like you to support the people's deputies in this committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need for "for," "against"? Two for, two against, please sign in. I see they're desirable. Please, Yuri Chizmar, please, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u59	Volodymyr Borisovich – Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u60	Oleg Kuprienko, please, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u61	Oleg Kuprienko Radical Party Oleg Laska. The Radical Party, the Radical Party faction fully supports this initiative, we will vote in favour, and we urge all deputies to vote because clean water is the basis of our lives. Recall how, after the 1945 war, Japan set itself up to eat clean water for its people, and a year later, the cost of disease treatment was reduced by 40 percent. This is an urgent problem for the whole country, and if the Montenegrins take the flag into their hands and take the initiative to show the whole country how to do it, it should be supported not only in the Montenegrins but also in the whole of Ukraine. We vote yes, and we urge everyone to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yuri Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u63	Please give the floor to the next of kin to this important initiative by Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u64	Mikola Trohimovich, please Fedoruk. As you said the word "Principal," I immediately understood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u65	Thank you, Yura! This really started back in 2010, and it didn't take six years to get to the final stage. It's extremely important, as the previous speaker said, the project. And he's a loan of 2 percent, and he's going to be able to significantly improve the water supply of the city of Chernivts, spend water, and improve the performance of the water channel at all, reduce energy consumption. So I urge all the deputies to vote in favour of this bill and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we realize that in the political sense of Chernivka, it is not usually the first city, but not the second city in Ukraine, and therefore it is necessary to support such a project in every way. But when it comes to the general state strategy, I think that this kind of project has to be a state programme of Ukraine, not just a program of cooperation with the German government. Since I'm informing you, as head of the environmental committee, we've had a three-year suspension of funding for the State's Drinking Water Program, no money is being spent. And I think that investment projects like the Chernobyl project, for 17 million euros, have to be part and parcel of the state programme. That is, the economy, the government has to spend all sorts of money if there's no government to get all the cities of Ukraine and all of Ukraine into a normal water system that you can drink. Because the basic parameters of a person’s quality of life are related to drinking water and I feel that this is extremely important and that is why I support this ratification. But I hope that not only the Blacks but also other cities will be able to make clean water through their water ducts. And on the other hand, Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to ask you, there's obviously some sad story that's happened, somewhere my application to get out of the Petra Prashenko faction, to carry out an important historic mission on you, to find a statement and announce it from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u68	I will do so with great sadness, realizing that this is certainly not the first statement you make, and I will find it now, and I will announce it. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u69	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that Wednesday is the day that should consolidate the political forces in Parliament, because we are ratifying the agreements of cooperation between different states, which means that Ukraine will only win from this. Unfortunately, there has been a collapse of the Opposition Act in this Parliament, and today we cannot say that both the opposition forces and the coalition forces are unanimously going to solve the issues that benefit Ukraine. The opposition block will definitely support this law, and we ask everyone to vote. For the future, Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you very much when voting on ratification laws, not to waste time on discussion, because we're all going to vote in favour. And given that for many months without the votes of the Opposition Block, the coalition can't get enough votes to adopt these laws, not waste time on discussion, but take into account the consolidation of the Hall and put it to a vote right away, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u70	Give it up for what you're doing. I think the coalition can do a lot of positive things and vote in particular. Dear colleagues! 0074 is the basis and, in general, the honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. Please take your seats. Let's vote, please support as a whole. Please support, we're voting for our colleagues 0074. Please be supportive. [[11:22:31]] For 243 The law's been passed. Thank you. Let's move on. The factions, please. All the factions voted, honor and praise, what can be said? It's very good when the hall votes in full, all the national MPs regardless of what party membership is. Right? 2278a is a draft decision to place the town of Bilyayevka in the Odessa region in the category of cities of regional importance. This is not the first time we have considered the matter. Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, please, from the spot for a minute, and let's support Billeyevka. Are you ready to vote Whitey, stand by? We're voting, aren't we? Colleagues, please support 2278a: the city of Biliyewka to become a city of regional importance. Please support this draft Supreme Council regulation. Ready? We vote on the basis and in general, please support everyone. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:23:55]] For 241 Thank you, Your Honor. And we welcome Bilyayevka with her decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we have a draft National Commission Act that regulates state energy and utilities. Appropriately, this question is related to rereading according to our previous decision. Draft Law registration number 2966. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:24:38]] For-161 Thank you. Decision adopted: 161. Demšin Vladimir Vasilovich will report, Minister. Private minister, even at the time of the government meeting. That's commendable!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, this law is very important not only for the fuel-energy complex, but not only for our gas segment, the electricity segment, it's a very important bill for all of Ukraine. It's an opportunity after 20 years of the regulator's existence to form a legislative framework on which it can become a professional body independent of political influence, independent of financial influence, and can perform all its functions in accordance with the Third Energy Package. This law, indeed, had already been considered in 2015, was rejected. But during this period since June, this law has been thoroughly worked out. Appropriately, a working group was formed at the international fund, supported by the Energy Community of the European Commission, the European Commission, which is currently supported by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the PEC Committee of the Supreme Council. So I am confident that this law, supported by all European institutions that are very closely following changes in the energy sector in Ukraine and hopefully will be supported by you. This law also corresponds to the directives of the European Community, the European Commission, Directive 72 on the electricity market and Directive 73 on the natural gas market. And as I said before, it's a law that should sort out the regulator's activities, which should allow it to be traced. Not only will more than 1,500 entities of these markets be licensed for more than 400 billion dollars in one year, but it will allow them to build transparent, understandable rules in these markets, to track down the activities of state monopolies, which are very often driven by them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u72	Finish up, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u73	Once again, I would like to point out that this regulator will act in accordance with European standards and follow up on the activities of extremely complex monopolistic structures. I mean, they're called to fight for the rights of consumers, first of all. And this law is penetrating this idea. Independence, persecution of consumer interests, and the fight against state monopolies, natural monopolies. So this is a step towards demonopolizing the market from formation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u74	Thank you. Please report to the deputy head of the profile committee. Olga Belkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, all present! In fact, you are now considering the impeccable bill on the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities. — Registration No. 2966. The bill proposes to define the order of formation, legal status and organization of the activities of the National Commission, which regulates the markets in question. The bill was or has not been considered several times at a committee meeting, last time on December 9, 2015. During the discussion of the bill, the national deputies of our committee unanimously supported the the thesis on the importance and necessity of adopting the bill as soon as possible. In addition, I remind you that this is our obligation to the international community and is an integral part of the Third European Energy Package, which we have signed as a country. Therefore, we can no longer delay his acceptance. At the same time, all members of the committee are aware that the government version of the bill is not ideal. It needs to be further developed in terms of clarifying terminology, extending some of the powers of the commission, expanding the scope of the law itself, appointing the members of the competition commission, funding the commission, organizing the work of the commission and making decisions on the openness of its activities, and so on. Such shortcomings can definitely be remedied when preparing the bill for second reading. At the same time, I want to inform. In view of the importance of this bill, a separate working group has been set up, involving international experts, all the national deputies who care for this sector. And on October 19-20, an additional session was held in the committee room, where an alternative version of what we, as committee members, would like to convert this bill. So today I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u76	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u77	Please accept the draft Ukrainian National Commission Act on State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (registration number 2966) has been finalized by the Cabinet of Ministers. Involve yourself in the work of preparing for the second reading. Also entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, taking into account the comments and proposals of the subject-matter of the legislative initiative, to finalize the draft bill and to present it for consideration by the Supreme Council in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u78	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please sign in. Please, Yuri Wozniak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u81	Goose, 19th constituency. Vladimir Vasilovich, we will support this valuable initiative of yours, of course, all your initiatives are valuable. Yeah? But I'm waiting for you in Novovolinsk, in the 10th Mine with the miners to talk about funding this year in the mining sector. At the same time, Parasuk and I will go to the Socal and Red Town miners who stand on the ice and cover the roads each month so that Minister Demšin will feel sorry for himself and give a copy. So, Vladimir Vasilovich, come on, right now we're taking this wonderful decision of yours, you're collecting the cuffs, and together with us, we're going to escort you to Volin, to Lvivščina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u82	You have to do a dictionary of interpretation: "mannas," to make it. the specificities of application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u83	I respect that there are no questions. It's just me. That's me, for discharge. Please, dear fellow John Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u84	202nd constituency, Ivan Rybak, Cherniewec district. For a more detailed analysis of this question, please refer the word Alexia Musaka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u85	Alexi Mushak, please. Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon! Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. Of course, this bill, come on. Of course, this bill needs to be supported because we need an independent regulator. Moreover, this bill shows a very beautiful and interesting story. Recently, Mr. Prime Minister stated and charged, in fact, with something of the Supreme Council that there was no active support for legislative initiatives from the Kabmin and compared Slovakia with 90 per cent of government bills. So this bill about the regulator shows a beautiful story. Last year he was introduced to Parliament. And the quality of it was that experts, including some members of the committee, said that it was better to adopt a bill written by the Opposition Block, because the Kabmin Bill was worthless. This applies not only to laws such as the regulator. This is also true of the bills that are generally submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And not only, but, well, not only by the signature of Arsenius Petrovich, but also by another signature. We can think of bills from the Ministry of Finance, which are also, well, let's say, the quality of which has also been discussed. Parliament is therefore ready to support both the coalition government and Arsenija Petrovich in his efforts to improve Ukraine’s legislation. But at the same time, there's a big request to improve the quality of the bills so they're not just a set of numbers and letters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u87	Thank you, please, People's Deputies, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Arthur Martovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u89	National MP Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Bill 2966, drafted by the Cabinet, contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, defining the status of the commission as a permanent independent state college body under the control of the President. Project 2966 does not contain sufficient requirements for the necessary professional level of board members, provides standards that are incompatible with European standards for regulating energy markets. It does not ensure the necessary degree of independence of the controller and the transparency of his activity. It does not correspond to European approaches to the status of state energy regulators, as required by the Energy Community. Given that the government bill has a number of comments from the GNEU, the National Deputies, the Sectoral Public Organizations, I ask that it be sent to the Main Committee for work with experts and the National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u92	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. In fact, the quality of the bills will also be discussed. In 2015 we were already looking at this bill, which is a Kabminian bill, which we returned to the Ministry of Energy, to Kabmin to work on. Unfortunately, it wasn't worked out, so with the help of our partners in the Energy Community, from the international funds, with the experts, it's already been developed. And we already have a version of the second reading. There are so many beautiful novels here. For example, for the Fatherland faction, it's a very important question of an energy tariff ombudsman, and a person who's going to protect people from those tariff hikes or when the gas went down in price and the tariffs aren't counted. But what is the main question for the energy regulator to be independent? The question is that the three branches of power of the President, the Parliamentary and the Government have no influence, no final influence on the process of formation and appointment of the members of the regulator. Unfortunately, we see in the Cabinet version that the President should appoint two members, the Parliament -- two and the Cabinet of Ministers -- one man regulator. I could say that even a high school political student can solve this problem and say who will eventually form this commission, which should regulate the market about 300-400 billion. That's why before the second reading or the second reading. Here's a proposition: one person from the President, three from the Parliament, one from the Cabinet of Ministers. We believe that this can balance the regulator's work and appoint independent members. Also important is the issue of the public, the control of the public over the activity and the selection of people into the institution. That's why the proposal from the "Paternity" faction: to re-read the committee's first reading with a reduced procedure for reviewing the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Olena Babak, then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help Association determines that this bill awaits every consumer in Ukraine who uses gas, electricity, water, heat. When tariffs rise and change, it is important for each person to have an arbitrator at the level of the State that protects his or her interests. That is what this law and market participants look forward to today’s liberalization. It's a gas supply market, an electricity market, it's our monopolistic utilities, it's our water heaters, because they also want to have clear and clear rules of their own in their respective markets. This regulator is to become that arbitrator and balance for everyone in the state and including the state itself. And here it's important to us, of course, all those things, the achievements of those things that were talked about and the balance of power, and so on. And to that. To these issues, the representatives of that strategic group, whose participants were the Self-Help and Parenthood Union, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u95	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u96	But we understand what is in this law today. And this law will be the standard for other regulators in other areas. Therefore, it is vital for us to have things spoken in this law that the government has not given us today. That's the first one. A clear definition of the areas of activity on which the work of the commission is being extended. It is not clear here that in the area of utilities, what activities are regulated and what activities are in the field of energy and gas. Literally a few seconds. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u97	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u98	In this law, imagine! – there are no procedures for preparing acts that have regulatory features. We have a regulator and we don't have regulations to prepare regulatory acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Ten more seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u100	Therefore, the Self-Help Unit will support this bill in the first reading and will do everything possible to prepare appropriate remedies to ensure all the provisions that have been sounded here today and removed the corruption factors that have also been defined by the anti-corruption committee. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The citizens of Ukraine, when we talk about corruption, corruption did not come from outer space, corruption has specific names and specific faces. Look at these names: he's a corruption, that's a personification of corruption. Today’s biggest energy corruption is that the regulator, who is dependent on power, spins like a gypsy sun, a market of at least 300 - 400 billion dollars. I said, how do you set tariffs? In the most opaque way. Who will pay for this corruption? You and I are paying you because of the high tariffs on the utility station, because of the high tariffs on light and everything else. Does this law solve the problems of corruption? No! No! On the contrary, he preserves corruption, and in one "temporary pens," billions of people who spin, earn, and society doesn't know anything about it, and we pay for this corruption. So the solution is: Put down the corrupts once. And to adopt a real law that will allow, independently of authority, to create a commission and independently.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Igor Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u104	Dear friends, I would like to remind you of the Conciliation Council that took place on Monday. And on the Conciliation Council, as Oleg Berezuk raised the question, how did it happen that six times the streetlighting tariffs went up? Likewise, Julia Volodymyrna raised the issue of tariffs. And it's in the plane of that bill that we're looking at today. Is he perfect? Of course, he's not perfect. And I'm going to support somewhere that this is not 350, but there are up to 300 billion. I have to say that today the Ministry of Fuel and Energy is called the Ministry of Energy and Coal. So we're also considering the coal issue in us and the energy issue we're having problems with, we're introducing a bill to keep NAC from going bankrupt. So we have to look at what this ministry's work depends on. On my part, I want to support my colleague Mrs. Olya Belkov, I want to support the committee's work, and I ask you all to support it in the first reading, and this is where the self-help position matches, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, Oles Long. And we're closing the discussion. Ah, from the People's Front, Buckovski, Katzer Buchkowska. Please, Olesia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u106	Long, factions of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we consider the adoption of such a law necessary, but we feel that it cannot be accepted in this way. In fact, this law creates an additional type of tax to maintain a structure that does not have and does not have any boundary size of the budget for the maintenance of this structure, except for the rest and all of those amendments, and the observations that were made by our fellow MPs. That is why we believe that this law cannot be adopted in this way in general, nor will we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Katzer-Buchkowska and then Alexander Dombrowski, we take the risk, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we've heard a lot about how much we need an independent regulator. Right now, we have a law that we suggest you adopt in the first reading. It's certainly far from ideal, but it's been worked on for six months by people, experts and also an international environment, and we have a real chance of perfecting this bill for a second reading. This commitment was made by all committee members, international experts. So we ask you very much to vote on this bill in the first reading, because we're losing another six or eight months of time, if we're this law, we're not going to take the bill as a basis. Give us a chance to finalize the bill and really create conditions for an independent regulator, and end the possibility of demonopolizing the gas market, electricity and other energy markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u109	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, please, from the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u110	Minister, if you take the floor now and you say these corruptible elements will be corrected in this law, which the group worked on, this law now has a chance to be voted on. But this is your public word that must now be made clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u111	I absolutely support you. There can be no corruption. Please, Vladimir Demchikin 30 seconds, 30 seconds. We take our seats, and then we take Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all the criticism. In fact, this law is prepared in the best principles of the European Union and is fully supported by our European partners. I realize that there are certain claims, but between the first and second readings they can be fully developed. All the criticism you're talking about, it refers to technical aspects, the fundamental law remains what it is. So between the first and the first. Please support the first reading and this will allow both the gas market and the electricity market to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your word. Please, Alexander Dombrowski. Colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! I would like to explain literally a few points of principle, this is not a law for the Prime Minister or for the Ukrainian government. This is not a law for the Minister of Energy, or for the President is an independent regulator law that allows the country to have transparent, honest, European rules on the energy market of Ukraine. Second, to understand essentially, it's a basic bill for reforming the energy sector of Ukraine. De facto is a national energy bank in terms of regulation and transparency. And the last position, we don't have any normal rules for a transparent, proper regulation of the energy market today. And all the things that are written here are much better and more professional than what we have today. We have a clear belief, in the committee, in colleagues among different groups and MP factions, that we have proposals for improvement. So, Mr. Beresuk, that's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u115	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u116	15 seconds. The answer to Mr. Bresück, we're creating a working group on the committee -- I'm telling you as the first deputy head of the committee, so that, between the first and second readings, all the positions that we agreed on from the point of view of transparency and professionalism, objectivity and adequacy of this law would make a decision. Listen, it's not the minister's law!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u118	It's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u119	Finish up Alexander Georgievic, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u120	Friends, this law limits the possibility of any influence of a minister without a name, a ministry on the impact on the energy market. I think between the first and the second readings we're going to try to do everything we can to implement what we agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention. Please take your seats. I think there's very little to depend on from the minister right now. And we have on the parliamentary stage between the first and the second readings, namely, preparing for the second reading, taking into account all the suggestions so that this law is not able to produce corruption and regulate these relationships, as is said to be an independent regulator for society. So I have the next proposal. We're now adopting it as a basis, and we want you to continue to create a working group with the committee, work on it. We will leave with the agreed position in the second reading, and then each one will be determined by his own vote. Just don't do anything is to support an active system that is imperfect, which is unfortunately too closed, and there will be other proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, the proposal: a signal vote, a bill, and a second reading on the basis of Parliament. I think this is an entirely objective situation that can be taken into account, and it is constructive. Ready to vote? Let us base 2966 on the results of the first reading with appropriate preparation for the second reading. Signal vote. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Look, you don't have to stand there, you have to take a step forward always, and let's just figure it out. What's more, you see, and good cooperation with the world's societies. We're voting on the basis of a signal vote. Please be supportive. On the basis of that, please support. Vote. [[11:50:27]] For 180. We don't have a vote on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, a national MP. I've got the next offer. It was a signal vote. I'd like to ask you, we have a plenary next week, too. I'd like you to re-gather the committee meeting with those factions that don't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again? Re-reading to the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Let's get the signal vote back to first-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, come on. To the committee again. preparation for re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this is preparation for rereading. And the procedure will be shortened. Colleagues, please, come on. Offer. Voropeyes. Yuri Voropeiev. One minute, please. I didn't give a word from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, what's the problem, why isn't the room voting? Article 16 of the Rules would prevent the problem that many of the rights could not be brought. Let's make it into a committee, and the committee will complete it right before the second reading. Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u123	Okay. Friends, please have a proposal for a re-read to the committee. Vote. It's a signal. Signal, then it will be. Signal to the committee again. Did everyone hear that? Let's go. Everyone, please take your seats. Vote. The vote is to be re-elected to the committee. Please vote. [[11:52:36]] For 238. So, colleagues, for once again to the committee -- it was a signal -- a vote. To be sent to the committee for re-reading. Vote. [[11:52:58]] For 242 Decision taken. Just a minute. Attention! Attention! Let's vote 226 just to get it to the next one. There was a chance if there was a reconciliation. It's a deal, it's a deal. All right, let's do it. All right, we got a deal. Guys, let's move on. 1581-d, re-read. Please, Alona Babak will report. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this bill. The discussion should be conducted in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[11:54:06]] For-162 Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council decree we passed with you on 11 November last year, a bill on housing and utilities was sent to be drafted into a profile committee. And it is he who is proposing to you today. In fact, a bill that has already been drafted by the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Every single one of you, I'm sure, is being approached today by your constituents, and you are being asked whether we can fully implement the law that was already in force for us in July last year, about the characteristics of the exercise of property rights in multiple apartment buildings, when from July 1st of this year we have to leave the market as monopolies of housing and maintenance offices of ours, JEC. What should we do? And as it turns out, you and I can't fully implement this law because we don't have a mechanism to make contracts for the management of our houses. So in the Housing Services Act, which is now being proposed, we're clearly proposing procedures as residents and consumers will make contracts for the whole complex. To get the whole housing and utility package. At the service of management, at the service of water supply, heating, waste management, gas, electricity. This law contains such things as a typical management contract. There is a distribution and transparency of wages for the administration, which separates the remuneration of the manager and, in fact, the maintenance service. To make it clear that people are going exclusively to their home, and what is going on is, as a matter of fact, the salary of the manager himself. A completely new concept of autonomous heating is introduced for Ukraine and if so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u126	There's a boiler house in the house, so the tariff will be set exclusively for the consumers of this house, and it will not be translated into the centralized heating tariff that is today. We're doing a separate service: waste management, excluding it from the apartment's salary. We're putting in a whole block to check the quality of utilities. We are creating extremely important things today to determine how management will be done for each model of house management if there is a self-managed control, if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u127	Please make an offer. 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u128	You will be supported today by the committee's proposal to adopt this bill as a basis, and a working group will be set up on the committee to prepare it for second reading, and we will work on it and take all the proposals into account. Because the law is extremely important and complex. We ask for your support. This is essential today for the complete realization of the complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to adopt this law as a basis, an important law, and to continue to work on the basis of a committee to prepare for a full second reading. Is there an understanding of such an approach under this law? Please two for, two for against. Sign up. As long as it's recorded. You know, colleagues, I think it's time you and I settled these monopolies. There's a lot of complaints coming out of places that, when they're connected to electricity, they're ripping hundreds of thousands and millions of people off there. So we need you with us, we need you to figure out how this is regulated today by legislation. And once and for all, "give them your hands," so that they can take those who get into electricity, gas, water supply and everything, and not as slaves who have to pay them tens, hundreds of thousands, and sometimes millions to connect to the network. Build, for example, your own enterprise or a small store and then create jobs. That's absurd. So what I'm going to do right now is we're going to be asking questions about where the situation is, we're systematizing this information. And we're going to create a group of factions experts. And we'll give them, we'll show them where, where, where, where, where, where, where, where, where the sea. We're gonna help, we're gonna go to the Antimonopoly Committee, we're gonna go where we need to go. Please, Your Honor, the Wozniak People's Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u130	Please give the floor to one of the instigators of this bill, Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u131	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, this is really our comprehensive bill, our Committee on Construction and the LHK. We worked together with Minregiobud, NCRE Naccomisi, all interested professional associations, public organizations. So, given the relevance and social significance of this bill, I draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that it really needs to be supported. And this is finally going to help us improve the legislation in general to regulate housing services. So our faction will vote unanimously in favour of this bill. And I'm going to all my colleagues from the other factions to support it as a foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u132	Thank you. Ruslan Demchak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u133	I give the word to Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u134	Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u135	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank the profile committee and Alona Babak personally for the tremendous amount of work that has been done in terms of drafting this bill. I want to explain that this is a bill that applies to everyone without excluding Ukrainian citizens. Because housing-communal services have a bearing on every citizen. On the other hand, so many problems that we have left to inherit from the Soviet Union, so many problems that have accumulated in the residential and municipal spheres need a completely new approach, a serious, deep, fundamental one that is now being proposed by the profiling committee. So it's absolutely obvious to me, and our faction will also be fully voting and supporting, supporting the Housing Services Bill and doing everything to get this bill implemented in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u136	Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u137	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The "Fatherland" faction at its meeting has taken a very detailed look at this bill and decided to recommend to Parliament, and so we will vote, to send this bill back to the committee for a re-reading. Why did we make such a decision? What is the purpose of this housing and utility bill? The main goal is to ensure that the consumer of residential services pays for what is actually given to him, that the tariffs are fair and transparent. Sadly, though, this bill does not fulfill the stated purpose. He is very good at protecting those who provide utilities, but in no way does he protect the rights of those who consume them. And these are all Ukrainian citizens, these are you and me, all those who are sitting in this room. I'd like to say specific points why we're against the law. First of all, there is a valid cumbersome order of confirmation of non-assistance, not of full scope or inadequate quality of municipal services. When prices and tariffs are set, there is a valid cost plus method in pricing that does not stimulate the cost-saving use of water and energy resources. Another disadvantage is to preserve the ability to determine the size of wages in a different way than on the basis of estimates of the means of calculation, particularly according to consumption standards. Additional payments are being made, including payments such as Customer Service Payments. And this payment. Individually, consumers will be financed by the cost of maintaining indoor networks that do not fall under this payment or the payment of utilities. So our request, because it's a very important bill, is once again on the committee to consider it, because first reading, it's going to take away the opportunity to make the necessary amendments to the second reading. We're ready to adopt these laws because the housing and utilities need to be responded to. Needs reform. Sadly, though, that is not the way it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u138	Thank you. Yuri Chizmar, please, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u139	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. The law initiated today in Parliament is really very important, the very issue, it's important, because we have to regulate the provision of municipal services to our citizens, as well as to settle the issues of fair prices for these services, so that today we can develop an appropriate business, because we know that investment in the LHC today is needed by Ukraine. But so that the population can also pay for the real services provided to them. What's in the bill? I'm actually very grateful for the previous report, which examined the shortcomings of this law in detail, but I'm going to stop, so that I don't just repeat myself on the issue of solid household waste. What the bill is proposing. The bill suggests that there is a disagreement today, we will. There will be a discrepancy between the different laws on local self-government that governs. And I'm surprised that this bill has been presented to us without the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, in which you have shown that it does not comply with the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Good Governance, where the issue of the export of solid household waste relates to the powers of local authorities. Today, it turns out that a nice house can determine for itself who will be taking out the garbage and where to take it out. We're balancing the single waste disposal system. That's why we have the whole country today, the only garbage dump. Therefore, we believe that today's rule of choice for the provider of these services is an opportunity. But the question is, everyone needs to go through open tendering conditions that determine the local self-government body that continues to control this process, attracts responsibility and defines the rules. Otherwise, we're going to balance this system and instead of cleaning up the trash, we're going to see that it's only going to increase. So I support the proposal to re-read the committee, correct all these shortcomings, and then bring it into the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u141	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. Our faction clearly supports the adoption of this bill, which may lead to order in such matters as housing and utilities. But in particular, we're going to insist on putting some of the laws in the bill that apply, among other things, to the quality of energy supply, and in particular to the quality of gas, because there are so many references to gas quality right now. This question can be settled by the bill itself when we step away from the definition of the unit of gas supply from cubic meters to kilocalories. If we define that the consumer has to pay for kilocalories, respectively, once and for all, the question of gas quality will be closed, because the consumer will only pay for the service provided, let's say heating water or teapot or any other device. And it's in this bill that you can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u143	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. We have to give our citizens an honest answer as to whether they will lower the population tariffs on the bills that we are adopting today. Well, I guess not. Because unfortunately, we've forgotten about the laws that could actually lower these tariffs -- that's the Law on reducing rent for gas, for producing gas in Ukraine. This, I don't see the report of the commission that was still supposed to work, and the answer to why these tariffs, and whether there's a way out of the situation that exists now, and what is the possibility of lowering them so that people can actually do the right thing so that they don't pay the last penny. And secondly, Volodymyr Borisovich, I support you in asking this question about Oblenergo and Oblegas. And you know, Vladimir Borisovich, literally half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u144	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u145	You said it all right, we have laws that solve these issues. Do you know how much to put in a new gas boiler or gas column? Project 30,000 to the same place. And you know how much it costs to plug in a gas counter for consumers? From 5,000 to 10,000. What does it do to avoid it? It's the only word, it's not privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, the Opposition Block. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov. Matvienkov, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u147	Opposition Block, Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today the Ukrainian people are undergoing a number of reforms, medical reform, reform of the education system, and reform of the JCC system. But one thing is, all of these systems are still coming out of the way for whom these reforms were meant to be made for, for the consumer himself. The entity that provides services in this direction and the JCC sector is the first to take the lead. We are well aware of one thing that, at the prices that we have today, under the system of pensions that we have today, with the social protection system that we have for our population today, love must be mutual here. People should pay only for the services actually received. And we can't play these things today, when we adopt a bill on first reading, we can't fix it, let's say, on the basis of the budget, let's send it back to the first reading, as we did, and under the previous law, let's work to really make our user.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! I want to ask you all one request, you know, while I'm working in the district, I've had a lot of meetings with voters, especially those who live in multi-story houses. And when people come out to you and ask questions that are not regulated by law today, why should we not today vote on this law in the first reading and give them opportunities and rights for which they should build their future life? Why should we lead people into the same slavery, telling them how to live in the same Jackets and everything else? Why not give them the opportunity to create OSBBs, to create energy-efficient measures to reduce their housing costs? And today we're talking about why prices are going up? Because we don't give people the opportunity to live the way they want. Let us adopt the law in the first reading and give people the opportunity to choose their future life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let's finish the discussion. So here's the proposition: let's take it as a base? Let's take it as a base, work it out, in full procedure. We work out, we have discussions, you understand how, let's do it again first, let's do it again third and so on -- it's all going to be an endless story. Now let's take the law as a basis we already have, the law has a huge amount and it has to. It's necessary to balance all housing and utility issues. So I ask everyone to support and participate in the preparation for second reading, without politics, is an important issue. You know, they've always said that housing-communal farming is apolitical, essentially its own. Therefore, we would like to see it brought together now, and we accepted it as a foundation and were all working on the committee. I think there's a lot of different professionals in the room, more specifically different representatives from the housing sector. Does that make sense, colleagues? Come on. I ask for a basis, a signal vote, and a vote, please. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Alexandra Vladimirovn, don't argue, Alexandra, what are you arguing about? Aleksandra Vladimirovna, don't fight, don't shout! We'll take it as a basis and you'll be working on the committee. Well, what are you doing? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. On the basis of a signal vote. Please, colleagues, please back up. Let's support this as a base. Colleagues, shall we vote? Let's take your seats. Based on the base. Vote. Signal on the base. Please support everyone. [[12:13:43]] For 186 Signal vote. Logic accepted. Dear colleagues, I announce then. I'm calling a 30-minute recess, according to the Rules. We'll go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Are you ready to work? Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the continuation of our difficult work. Please, factions, please invite your colleagues into the hall. Please. Dear colleagues! Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Colleagues, according to the order of the day, our next question is first reading, 3390. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities to provide State support for voluntary unification of territorial communities. An important, systematic bill. And there is a request that we support the consideration of the reduced procedure. So I ask my colleagues to take up jobs. And I would like to support the simplified procedure for considering this bill. Please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on a motion for a brief procedure for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Please vote, please support: summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:56:04]] For-90 No support for this proposal. The hall made it clear that it wanted to be considered in full procedure. And so I invite the rapporteur, the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u152	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill does not need a full procedure because it is completely simple and, in some parts, it is technical. What caused this, the appearance of this bill? This is due to the fact that, until recently, two district councils had not approved promising plans for the unification of local communities and thus prevented local self - government authorities from uniting their communities. They're still here. Just one district council that for one reason or another does not accept the matter. In this regard, it is proposed that the bill establish such a standard. to amend the Law on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities and establish such a rule: if the district council does not consider, within a month, the issue of the adoption of forward-looking plans for the formation of capable communities, then the district government makes its proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers; the Cabinet of Ministers approves the decision. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on 25 November the draft bill and, having discussed the issues in its entirety, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities on the provision of State support for voluntary unification of territorial communities as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. And that's all I wanted to report to you, the distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please remain in the rostrum. Question to the reporter. Please sign up for a question for the reporter. Please record. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u154	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Nasalik Igor Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u155	Dear friends! I'm dealing with the decentralization of the territorial administration, the change in the system, probably six years. And when it comes to the fact that the district councils can now confirm the territorial development plans, they should say that, as of today, their vision is absolutely different from that of the state. And so the creation of so-called self-sufficient communities has led some communities not only to the ability and self-sustainment of financial security, but also to the community that was created in the Kalu district. And there's a problem, in general, how to provide education, medicine and everything. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine long ago developed forward-looking plans for all necessary areas. Please work on this. Let us give district councils and agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u156	I understand it was a performance, he doesn't need an answer. And I pass on the word of Marcenko Alexander Alexandrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u157	Please give the floor to Deputy Illenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u158	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear reporter, you know a lot about decentralization in Ukraine right now, about how to raise the importance of local self-government, give them more authority. And on this subject, a lot of different speculations happen when they mean completely different under decentralization. And this law, which is proposed, more specifically changes to the law, essentially allows you to ignore the view of local self-government, the district council in this case. I mean, it's just the decisions of the executive branch, the more the Cabinet of Ministers, the central executive body, to decide the fate of a forward-looking territorial development plan. What does this have to do with the declaration of local self - government and decentralization in our country today? Is this just an increase in this central government agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. Dear Mr. Andrew, it is precisely the case that this rule of law is applied only when the district council, for one reason or another, does not primarily consider the issue of community unification. It's a practice. As soon as it's triggered. Changes to legislation? Until recently, two areas — Ternopilska and Zakarpatska — had not been approved or deliberately approved of the unification of communities. She's staying for today. The Ternopil district council has confirmed that one Zakarpat district remains today. So this does not narrow down the rights of local self - government and district councils; rather, it encourages them to consider the matter. She, the district council, should consider the matter. If she does not consider it, then the standard of these changes enters into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u160	Sold to Oxana Petrovna. One last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u161	Dear Mikola Trochymovich! Dear colleagues! This bill actually, I understand, is against abuse, against political abuse when it comes to the adoption of forward-looking plans. At the same time, I didn't hear or see in the project, and I didn't hear in your speech, what are the safeguards in the project against killing the local government by this bill? Because in fact, 30 days are given to the district council for approval. There is no opportunity for either change or reconciliation, and there is no reason why this term can be extended for 30 days if there are objective reasons for changing or deferring the adoption of a forward-looking plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u162	Dear Mrs. Oksana! I think it's possible to put up such fuses if the law were to. The amendments to the bill will be adopted in the first reading and the second reading will be possible to place such safeguards so that they do not abuse the executive authorities. I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u163	Thank you, Mikola Trochymovich. The time allocated for questions has been completed. Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, please record three minutes from the factions. And I'm asking the factions to record it. Please. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u164	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! These novels, offered by a fellow national MP, do not fit the spirit of the law itself. Please see what the law is called — the Law on Voluntary Unity. Rather, in this law, this novelty strengthens the role of the executive branch of authority. What's going on today? We're going to have a method that will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the administration will submit. The Cabinet will continue to approve. Do you know why this is happening? So some areas have made promising plans that are really what local self - government authorities needed. That now out of 159 communities, only 110 are capable. This is a sign of complete immobility. The unscrupulousness of the executive branch. One hand doesn't know what the other is doing. I'll give you some other examples. With your hands, colleagues, we've given CTU or training in the techniques of those labor personnel to hang on to the organs of local self-government. Do you understand what the cost is? Of its own resources, only one area – Kyivska – can charge the costs. What did we do next? We set up the offices of big taxpayers. Most areas lost up to 10 percent because large taxpayers had moved to Kiev, Lviv. What about other areas? Ravensky, which one did I just come back from? Today, the District Council forms a call to the Prime Minister to return the standard, because it's its own funds. And what did we do with you for the payload? Did we forget that there was a loan last year? We also hanged ourselves from local self - government! What about environmental taxes? Didn't you and I find out that it was the environmental tax that financed veterinary medicine and wetlands? What happened today? This was again put on local self - government bodies! Colleagues, what happened to the united communities? Today, they don't have a social welfare system. Today, they are turning to the Reich administrations to develop them. Didn't we know that? Let's work more systematically, colleagues. I'm sure the laws are needed to correct the mistakes we made with you that night. In particular, the mayors of all cities turned to all factions, and they analyzed the laws that had already been registered, including the factions of the Fatherland, our colleague Kirilenko was unanimously supported by the Law to amend the Budget Code, where we have to give direct budgetary relations to cities of district importance. Why are we killing them next year? Please tell me why. Of course, with limited expenditure on PTU, social security and health education. Do the same thing. Even the Head of the Supreme Council says that we should strengthen the role of local self-government, the role of associations, even. These are the appropriate letters, let us consider and help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u165	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u166	So that we can re-energize the centralization. So what I'm saying is, the systemless work, on the one hand, the Minregion is doing the legislative work, on the other hand, Minfin is killing decentralization, giving very strong powers that do not match the ability.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u167	Thank you. From the People's Front, Boyko Olenna Petrovna. The People's Front, Boyko Helena Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone. And you'll be out of town, won't you? Turn on Mrs. Oleni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the People's Front has asked all fellow MPs to support this bill. The point is that this bill is supported by a committee of professionals and an Association of Ukrainian Cities. and experts who work hard on decentralization and the problems of decentralization. Our colleagues rightly say that our mistakes or shortcomings need to be corrected. It is this bill that seeks to correct the shortcomings or miscalculations of those laid down in the Law on Voluntary Uniting. I would like to point out to our colleagues that the primary link of local self - government is the territorial communities, not the district councils that are trying to decide and be the last link in solving the question of voluntary community reunification, which is, if the territorial communities have decided to unite, we need to support them. And if the district council exceeds its own authority or has its own vision of unification, we must become the guarantors who will allow us to create safety nets for such abuses. And this bill is designed to support the primary link between those territorial communities that have decided to unite, and the district council, for some, most of it, does not provide that political power. So the People's Front supports this bill and asks to support decentralization, and to support those territorial communities that have shown desires that are potentially capable, but unfortunately, political preferences do not allow it. We ask very much for your support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u169	Thank you. From the Samohelp faction Sobolje Jegor Viktorovich. Please. Yegor, pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Ljubomir Zuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u171	Teeth Lubomir, Self-Help faction. In general, the Self-Help faction supports this bill, because it is really geared towards the development of decentralization and the development of united communities. I'd like to agree with colleagues who said that, in fact, the district council is not a level of local self-government, they're institutions that represent the common interests of territorial communities, and we should think first of all about the level of local self-government. And if the respective communities have decided to unite, it is not fair that the district council can artificially block this process. That is why we generally support the bill. The only thing that comes up is the predicted monthly term for the district council. That may not be enough. But this term can be fixed to a second reading. So we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u172	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group, Long Oleg Stanislavovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u173	Thank you. In short, our faction will support this bill. We consider it technical and invite our colleagues to conclude discussions and get to work. We remind ourselves that we did not accept any important bill all day yesterday. That's why we call. And they were wise not to accept what was important. Therefore, dear friends, there is a suggestion that we speed up discussions, move to work, and accept this important bill. And, in particular, I would like to say that we are fully supporting our colleague from Fatherland in the matter of vocational schools. Because our faction is largely made up of majors, each of whom today hears the problem that there is no way to maintain a high school as proposed today. Thank you for your attention. Please move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u174	Thank you. I'll just make a note. Thank you for calling the deputies, but you don't have to discredit the Supreme Council. Yesterday we adopted extremely important profiling laws and youth policy and social protection and education, yesterday was debated issues, we adopted many important issues. But I have a call: call, Mr. Olese, and to you to mobilize your faction groups. People come in by columns, MPs come into the hall and it's positive, the hall won't have any deputies soon. We're about to finish the factions, and if there's room will, we'll be able to get right to the vote. Now, before you know it, I'd like to invite Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u175	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, in fact, we are only considering one amendment to this bill, and this amendment allows us to look strategically at the serious problem that we have today, in our discussion of the system of local self-government. As far as I'm concerned, there's a big miscalculation that the district councils should approve as a false concept that the government should approve. The right concept is how to find a mechanism to create a capable community. First, how can you create it in a voluntary way? How can we create it in such a way that people understand that the fundamental powers they rely on them are financially possible? You might find it a surprise that many villages don't arrive that we don't have transportation in most rural areas right now. Why isn't he here? Because the tenders won the carriers where the benefits were paid, and the compensation for the transportation benefits goes to our local budgets. Where in the rural area is the money for compensation? Thus, as during World War II, in some rural areas, the people who do not have cars are now on foot. So this is one example of what we would have to do to see if it came into existence as a financially viable community, or is it a financially viable community? And then the political stuff begins, the governors report to the government who won the battle for the number of community creations? The district council opposes and then the head of the district administration says, let's confirm through the Kabmin without a district council. Guys, this isn't a capitalist competition. Who's going to create a number of communities? This is the life of people who are at a low level. So I think we need to stop this capitalist competition, analyze what happened to us in the community-building process? Which of these communities are financially able, especially in the current budget, to survive and perhaps, as I said, to go along with pilot projects? Well, let's, if there's a larger area, Kyivsky or Winnick, or whatever, let her do it, we'll look at it, analyze it, and then we'll do it all. What's more, I don't understand the general concept at all, like the Constitution, don't give a god, will it be analyzed? In general, we have the foundation of the territorial community, which is made up of the inhabitants of the settlements and communities of the community. Have the villages been wiped out yet? What is this settlement? Who invented the term "population"? Siberian, Arakcheiv, or what are the settlements? So once again, we don't have to hand over any powers to the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, we need to analyze what was created, see how it works, and go back to the idea of volunteering, and financial ability.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u176	Thank you, colleagues. We have the next chapter, the last chapter is a statement by the deputies. Let's go this way, I've got three deputies who want to speak. Let's give the three of us a word and that'll be wise. Four. And we're risking it. Do you have a deal? Here we go. Solovay, then – Mishchenka, please. More, right? From the rostrum to the minute, a brief, concise statement is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u177	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! I have a faster speech addressed to Parliament Speaker Volodymyr Borisovich as the main provider and ideologist of the reform of the decentralization of the Ukrainian government. Dear colleagues! We take the first and important step, and it's essentially one or not one of the few reforms that people really feel. But let's face it, this is a small step, and today the territorial communities have faced the fact that many issues have not been resolved. Unsolved election issues in territorial communities, unresolved issues of the Law on Elections in Territorial Communities, unresolved legal issues, unresolved issues of land return and land administration by territorial communities. And so, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, speaking to you, I ask you to spend the day of decentralization in Parliament as soon as possible and to consider this day the whole package of legislation relating to the formation of territorial communities and the decentralization of Ukrainian authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u178	Thank you. I'll just say a few words before the next speech. Believe that the Parliamentary apparatus is now working with every local community that is united, together with the members of the Supreme Council, who are concerned about these matters. We're having thematic meetings and meetings, we're identifying some issues that need to be corrected, and we're doing this with you in the Supreme Council Hall, either in support of or in the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And one more thing, colleagues, it's a very important question to create self-sufficient communities. What do you and I not realize that a community of one thousand people cannot provide quality education or health care? We understand. This means that they should be given the right to unite, not to unite villages, and to change their names, but to unite legally from the point of view of the governing bodies. And when the community has 3-5 thousand people, it has a direct budget, new taxes that they get in the budget, not in the central budget. Then they can do kindergarten or school, they can do quality health care, and everything else. But it's a process. And if anyone can say that someone has an experience of how to do this without being a hero, I'm just going to applaud you and think that you're a national hero. But for the first time in years of independence in this centralized system, we're decentralization. That means there's going to be sheroquities, there's going to be regulation, and there's going to be a system of legislation, and there's going to have to be changes. Well, that's how it's supposed to be. It's our job with you. We need to help make the system better. But instead, I always hear a lot of positive things, and there are those who say that everything is bad, everything is gone and everything will be bad. But, sorry, financial decentralization is. And I think colleagues, if you don't do politics, can talk about it. Secondly, 159 communities have united, and that is true. Thirdly, we have a question on top of blocking this process, my friends. There's a blocking process. What is involved in this law? The point is that if communities have decided to unite, no one has the right to forbid them from doing so: neither the administration nor the government nor the district administration nor the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the results of their joint decision are justified, for you will not be united; you will have to have the opinion of people of every village; you will not impose anything on them. Then the question is, Kabmin, if the district council can be irresponsible, and such cases have been, then the district council. The Minister's office can confirm just technically this decision. That's it, dot. And the fact that we need to analyze the state of decentralization, to correct the situation all the time, I have no doubt. And I met with many rural heads, associations of three district, district, rural councils, cities. Everybody says, "Come on, let's not stop!" Let's move forward, make the changes we need, but we don't have to stop the situation. Decentralization will no longer be stopped. And a lot of authority was passed on. And according to the professional world -- about what they said -- the truth was told by a colleague. And if Minfin read the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation 333 of April 1, 2014, which approved the concept of reform of local self-government, it says that vocational and technical education should not be passed on to a small town (5 to 10,000) that they cannot draw it, but in the area, to district budgets, that means that there should be money for it. I think it's possible to pass it on to the cities -- the district centers. And that would be perfectly normal. Because no one with you has given us the right to stay away from professional education. Because it's disappearing, and our kids are being taught not how to compete in the labor market today, but they're being trained in equipment in the '60s. The '50s and '60s. They graduate from technical school, they go to work, they come to the station, and they don't understand which way to go. Because he is modern, computerized, and so forth. Are you and I supposed to be standing outside? No! No! People have to influence that. Thank you, dear fellows, and please, next speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u179	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Not only have the heads of the force failed to explain the essence of the law, but they have not been told what they will receive from this union, but the key word "voluntary" is taken away. Then let's honestly call this law "voluntary-force union of communities" and then everything will be in place. Because when we talk about it, for some reason, a district council or a local council can't make a decision on a forward-looking basis, it's a campaign. Then he knows more about this community of Cabinet ministers, it's coming out. So what's the point of volunteering? If you want to make a difference, write about how much money they get, whether they have roads or hospitals. That'll be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u180	Tree tree, please. One minute. Very briefly, express your thoughts in a concise way, for the rostrum is blocked. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u181	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold this law. And it's to support "voluntary." I emphasize that the voluntary unification of communities that have made decisions in their community has voluntarily been brought together, these are several sessions. And only then does the district council agree or disagree. It is vital that it is in a voluntary way that those who want to unite can work and be better for their communities, for their inhabitants. And the second. Vladimir Borisovich, I insisted on the Conciliation Council and asked that you include in the agenda Bill 3510 and 3510-1 on land outside the settlements in voluntary communities that have united. Unfortunately, you have strongly supported this, but so far it is not in the order of the day. I very much ask my colleagues to support this issue and to include it in the agenda and likewise consider and help our united territorial communities to manage the lands outside the populated area, which should be in municipal property within these united territorial communities. I thank you very much for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u182	Illenko Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u183	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable association, well, let's be honest. If there is a district council that for some reason does not approve a plan, there must be some reason for it, and there may be a certain point in this area among the people that this plan is imperfect. And instead of listening to the idea, in the case of the District Council, it is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers decide in Kiev. What's this about, then, reform? Obviously, during the voluntary, so - called voluntary unification of communities, there were many problems, many conflicts. And now we want to take all of these solutions away from the area and find compromise on these issues and move them to the capital. How will decentralization take place? What will be the outcome of the reform? It's a campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the deputies are blocking the rostrum, demanding that the salary be raised for the deputies. An important question must be discussed. That's a definite requirement. Mr. Ribak, I ask you to speak while we have such an unusual situation in the Presidium. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u185	Ivan Ribak, 202nd constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that this bill is a mere twisting of branches for local self-governance. These are the standards that are now being proposed for us to vote on nothing but counting with the opinion of the local MPs. Well, this trend is already taking place today, and the Cabinet of Ministers is showing these recent changes to a lot of legal and regulatory acts, where the idea of local self-government is generally ignored. So I'm asking you, Your Honor, not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u186	Society! Friends! Well, there was an MP from Liberty. Colleagues! I didn't specifically record it to shorten our time. We've been running out of time, not going on. Yes, but there is a limited time to speak. Restricted by 15 minutes. A limited time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We're on our way. Well, now we can talk forever. I suggest we move on now to making decisions by signal vote, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Let me have a few words. Attention! Look, five territorial communities, five villages, they've taken the steps of the village. I'm just modeling. I'm making a model. Yeah? Attention! Do you copy? Oh, no? Attention! The 5 villages decided to unite, to form one community. We already have 159 in Ukraine. They made a decision and formally approved the decision to the district council. The district council, because she doesn't like some party of the village head or her absence, says, you know, we're not going to approve this decision. And he wants to form a full community, and he can't because he's forbidden by the district council. Is that guidance? No, it's not. It's such an accurate representation. So the decision is made that if the district council has not approved this voluntary union, we have no forced union, friends, what are you talking about?Oh, my God! We've been in this system for a year. So he can go to the Cabinet of Ministers, to a higher-ranking institution that doesn't seem to be involved, and ask them to do so. All of it. I don't like the moon, let's do three. But there must be some kind of fuse! Well, you can't take the initiative of people, you can't just take the initiative of people, that's all. Now move on, move on. Either we vote for it or we don't vote for it. But what I want to stress is that this is a question that is completely intelligent, that is adequate, and that there are no problems. In one of the areas of Ukraine, there were also, I think, two communities that did not allow them to unite for a year. And just as you and I in the Supreme Council have passed a separate law in these two communities, they are united and are now functioning normally. So I have the next proposal. Let us put more trust in villages, rural councils, communities, people who have made decisions. If they do not make a decision, no one can make that decision for them, no one. Not Kabmin, not parliament, not district council, not district council, not administration, nobody. Now, they accepted, they united. And second position. Prospective plans for the unification of the territorial communities, you know why? But so that we do not leave in Ukraine the villages left behind, which will impoverish and disappear. In order for them to be supported by stronger communities. Then the strong will be united, and the weak will be left on the sidelines. We can't let that happen to you, can we? We can't. So I urge everyone to vote for this law as a basis. Although I can see that people aren't enough in the hall. Let's now vote the signal vote on the basis. Well, we'll see what we can do next. I think that the arguments for those who understand are more than enough to support this position to support this decision. No neglect, no pressure, no pressure. Thank you. Take your seats, fellow countrymen. The discussion is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u188	Please unlock the Presidium and return to the workplace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u189	Colleagues, please take our seats. The signal vote of the law as a basis. On the ground, signal. Please be supportive. [[13:33:11]] For-179 I think the prospect of adopting this law is there. We'll continue the discussion tomorrow. Dear colleagues, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u190	The next day's draft of Law 2490a is to amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the enforcement of criminal penalties and the exercise of the rights of convicted persons. And there's a suggestion that we look at it as a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, support. Please vote. [[13:34:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And the report invites the first deputy minister of the justice of Sevostianova Natalija Ilarionovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the execution of criminal penalties and the realization of the rights of the condemned. I would like to point out to you that this law is essential to the work of the Law on Probation, which has already become effective. To date, we're eliminating Soviet criminal investigations and opening country-wide probation offices that will deal directly with the resolidation of those convicted of the best European standards. But in addition, this project also contains some standards that improve the condition of the condemned. This is an extension of the rights of those condemned to be deprived of their liberty, which is an opportunity to spend on food, clothing, shoes, and undergarments without restriction, and to date such restrictions have been imposed. The issue of pension insurance for convicted persons is being settled because today, with the current Code of Criminal Enforcement, they are not being fully implemented. A very important issue of parole is settled. And this right is handed down only to the court, not to the administration of a colony where there is corruption in this area today. It also deals with the transfer of sentenced persons to the restriction of will from one institution to another within the framework of the law, rather than the legal regulations. We ask for your support, and we pledge to present to you in the near future a comprehensive reform of Ukraine’s penitentiary system and further changes to legislation. Thank you for your attention. And I would like you to back up and work with the committee on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u192	Thank you. The co-report is invited by a representative of the Legislature Committee of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u193	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. A law enforcement committee has considered a bill (registration number 2190a) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of criminal penalties and the organization of the rights of convicted persons. The bill provides for amendments to 9 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, 54 articles of the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine, 13 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and fragmentary amendments to 10 special laws of Ukraine relating to freedom of movement, social assistance, protection of childhood, volunteering and other relations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus proposes to return the draft to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. According to the Budget Committee, the organization of the project's provisions for the use of the Internet condemned in 2016 requires additional expenditure from the state budget of 20.3 million dollars. At the same time, our committee believes that the draft changes to a number of articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code specify the order and conditions of punishment in the form of restrictions and deprivation of liberty, aimed at creating conditions for the exercise of the rights conferred on the defendants, eliminating the existing differences between Ukrainian KPC rules, criminal responsibility for the avoidance of certain penalties and addressing issues related to the introduction of probation in Ukraine, some issues of execution and execution of sentences that are not related to the deprivation of liberty. In view of the progress made and the possibility of this development, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in preparing for the second reading, the results of its consideration of Bill No. 2490a, in its first reading, to accept it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we discussing or voting? There is no one who wants to participate in the discussion, so let us go to the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, please don't go out, but come in, prepare for the vote, the law isn't conflict, everyone's supported, all you need is discipline in the hall. Please come into the hall, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to urge the deputies to vote. So I'm voting on a bill of 2490a amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the execution of criminal penalties and the realization of the rights of the convicted. Signal vote. Please vote 2490a. Vote. [[13:39:39]] For-183 The question is discussed. Let us move it to the chapter discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, according to the committee's decision, you know that you and I have passed Law 1558-1 on the restructuring of liabilities in foreign currency. Accordingly, this law was promised by the President, and I believe that this is entirely objective. Since he was completely unbalanced, he did not really protect the right to credit those people, from the common people who needed their protection. So he basically distributed to those who had commercial real estate, he was, frankly, lobbyist, and simple people, no one thought of him here. So there is now an opportunity to consider this issue, it does not need to be in accordance with the Rules, in the 20th article, to include it in the agenda, to consider it and to open it up, to open the way for the introduction of the right law, to be worked out, and we could protect monetary lenders, those who bought something for their own lives, not for reselling, commerce, hectares or tens, hundreds of hectares of land and so on. That's why I'm now introducing this bill, in accordance with the Rules, it's already given to the members of the Supreme Council (registration number 1558-1) with the President's proposals. Please, the representative of President Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u196	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 July 2015, the Law on the Restructuring of Loans in Foreign Currency No. 1558-1 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the following: the law that came upon the signature is proposed to introduce a mechanism for the restructuring of liabilities, natural persons with consumer loans in foreign currency through currency change, the fulfilment of the obligations of the national currency of Ukraine at the official rate of the NBA, on the date of signing the credit agreement. Paragraph 1 shall, in accordance with the provisions of that law, the creditors, on written application by the lenders who have not yet fulfilled their obligations under consumer credits, have to restructure their liabilities under conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in that law. The interest rate on the use of credit costs after restructuring may not exceed the interest rate established by the underlying foreign currency credit agreement. Creditors are forbidden to impose additional obligations on borrowers for all benefit in respect of payment of any payments, assemblies, commissions for the restructuring of liabilities under credit contracts. The following should be noted on this point. According to article 1054 of Part 1, of the Civil Code of Ukraine, a bank or other financial institution is obliged to provide money to the borrower in the size and terms of the contract, and the borrower is obliged to repay the loan and pay the interest. In addition, part two of Ukraine's Civil Code 1056 states that the interest rate of the 3 per cent interest rate and the order of payment of the loan contract are defined in the contract, depending on the credit market provided by the demand for the loans that were made on the credit market, the size of the account rate and other factors. The Banking and Banking Act establishes the economic independence of banks and the autonomy of lending policies they carry out, guaranteeing business continuity and taking into account the risks of default. For example, article 47 of the Act provides that the bank sets interest rates and commission benefits for the services rendered. Thus, according to the current legislation of Ukraine, the question of restructuring debt under credit agreements, amending credit agreements on the order of repayment of credit, pennies, the fine should be decided directly by the creditor and the borrower. Moreover, the legal mechanism for restructuring these liabilities would significantly disrupt the balance of the credit agreement’s rights to borrowers, placing the entire burden of damage solely on Ukraine’s banking system. Could lead to the immediate capitalization of the banking system, the refinancing, the devaluation of the national currency, the increase in the cost of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investment of Individuals and, as a result, an increase in public budget expenditure; introduce an unequal approach to borrowers who pay or have already paid off credit commitments in the light of changes in the exchange rate; and borrowers who have not had the financial capacity to meet the terms of the contracts made or to be unintelligible. Moreover, there are a number of other important points to be made to the law that came upon the signature. Yes, the law provides for the establishment of a two-way moratorium on the storage, the acquisition of any property of the borrowers, which is provided to ensure that the liabilities for consumer loans are met. However, the above-mentioned issue has already been settled in the current Ukrainian law on moratoriums and acquisitions of citizens' property provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans. In addition, according to the Final Provisions of the Government Act, it is incumbent upon the Government to develop a mechanism to compensate for the costs of banks associated with the above restructuring. In doing so, the source of the damage to the banking system from the implementation of the law is not available. This creates risks for the budgetary system of the state. Moreover, the provisions of articles 5 and 8 of the law that came to be signed do not meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, the prohibition provided by law to refer to a court for enforcement of obligations violates the requirements of the Basic Law, under which the jurisdiction of judges extends to all legal relations that arise in the State. The legal provision that the courts decide to take effect before the act is effective is applied only in this part, which does not conflict with it, does not meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which judicial decisions are approved by the courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine is unable to support the proposed law that came upon the signature, order, and terms of the restructuring of commitments under foreign currency credit agreements, so he proposes to reject the law. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u197	Thank you. Please, Sergey Rybalka, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u198	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! For about two years now, monetary lenders have been under the walls of the Supreme Council, Natzbank, and almost every day come to our Committee of Financial Policy and Banking. We passed the law on July 2nd and voted in favour of it in three readings. In December, the President of Ukraine still applied the veto to this Law on Restructuring and Obligations in Foreign Exchange Loans, which became known under number 1558-1. Only yesterday evening did the relevant documents come to our committee. Right this morning, we gathered our committee and considered this bill. Article 133 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations provides for two options: either support for the President's proposals and the rejection of the law, or the rejection of the President's proposals and the re-adopted adoption of the law as a whole by overcoming the President's veto. In view of the fact that the Committee was unable to take one of the two decisions, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it consider the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Commitments in Foreign Currency and determine how to vote on it. I would like to say that for a year we have been fighting this problem and I am very sad that only after the year Minfin, the National Bank, has admitted that the problem is that it has to be resolved with the currency, with the international monetary creditors under which we made commitments, and it is only now that these negotiations are coming and bills have come in. So I ask, honourable deputies, to determine how to vote with the stakes of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Attention! There was, according to the procedure we have. I'm voting for a motion to support the President's proposal and to reject this law, it's going to be 226 votes, we'll support it. If I don't, I'm going to make a proposal to beat the President's veto. If that is not the case, the law will be repealed. Dear colleagues, come on. Look, I think we all understand the ingredient, including the political question. We need to help people resolve their problems, and this can be done by means of a new law. I think all of this we know, all of this we realize, thousands of times we've talked about. And now I call everyone to a responsible position. And so, the proposal is to support the President's proposal to reject the bill. Please vote. [[13:51:10]] For 101 The decision is not taken. And the second sentence is to beat the President's veto. There's got to be 300 votes. Please vote against the President's veto. [[13:51:32]] For-54 Dear colleagues, the law has been revoked. And we have with you, and it opens up the ability to actually work very professionally on this issue. Thank you. Let's move on. The law already exists, a new one developed. Now work it out and get it right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! We have another bill to report to Deputy Justice Minister Sevastinova. Let's talk about it, and then we'll both make decisions when we have a more successful mobilisation period than we do today. And I'd like to ask you to consider a bill on the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison (2989) on a daily basis, and I very much ask you to consider the proposal for a simplified procedure. Colleagues! Please be supportive. Please vote. Short-term procedure, 2979. Vote! Vote! [[13:52:47]] For 132 Not all were able to vote. I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues, to take up your jobs. We can go completely into the full-time procedure, but I know that the committees today and that's why I'm asking you to take up jobs and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please support everyone. The Fatherland faction, too. Please vote. Short-term procedure, 2979. Vote. [[13:53:33]] For-125
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-27-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Rules and Calendar Plan will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
