ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please prepare for the start of our work. As you know from the media. As you know, your peers, from the media, today have been attacked by our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Victoria Vojcitsky. I spoke to her on the phone in the morning, thank God, life, and the health of her family and child, all right. But this attack is an unprecedented event. And I now appeal to all law enforcement agencies to take immediate action to investigate this attack, to seek out the guilty and to ensure the safety of the Ukrainian national MP's family. I think it's absolutely unacceptable, both in terms of any citizen and in terms of the national MP. A citizen’s life, health, and safety must be of the highest value. So I think this is a serious challenge that we have to answer. I mean the entire law enforcement system. Individually, my fellow Members, I would like to say that yesterday, as we agreed, a working group was set up to finalize the Law on Special Seizure. In fact, the amended bill was passed, and yesterday it was posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we're going to talk about it today, and we're going to talk about what we're going to do next. Well, I'd like to focus everyone on today's work, because we have a number of important bills: both the DBR competition boards, and the issues related to the economic and financial problems, there are questions about the renaming of the populace. Many different questions. Forming a competition commission to elect a candidate to head the National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets From Corruption and Other Crimes. We have a draft hearing order for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that we need to approve. And the question of the financial and economic block, I think you've all seen them, they're saturated. That's why I'm calling everyone to a constructive job today. Now, please prepare for work and registration, your honorary colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall. Please register, colleagues. [[10:08:31]] Dear colleagues, 345 national deputies are registered in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, here we are. A letter came from two factions. A letter came from two factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declaring the break. Instead, there is a suggestion to replace it. A three-hour performance. Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like your attention! Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow it can happen to you, to those who really fight corruption. Tonight there was an attack on the national deputy, Victoria Vojtsiecki, and her family. It's a three-month-old child! It's a teenager! It's family! Victoria Voytzicka is the leader of those people who fight corruption in the fuel-energy sphere. This is a person who reveals and understands the patterns that work there and speaks freely of them. Today, the institutional state loses the battle against the oligarchs who rule Ukraine and tear it apart. These people who want to devalue this country, who want to reintroduce it into new choices that don't want new ones. And these people are not in Parliament. If they are, they are because of their vassals. Today, dozens of criminal cases against our deputies: Semimenachi, Danchenka, entering the premises of Berezuk, Lavrik, where they live and work. And no action by law enforcement agencies, they're not in the country. We're talking to people today, "People, look what's going on," once. Listen to what they tell you, two. And the third. We're talking to international public organizations and states: don't put Ukraine under Russian aggression and dismembering it from the inside by their agents. Support those in Parliament 60-80 people who want the development of this country. If there are other people in this room who have different backgrounds but want to get into this past again, please reconsider. We stand together, today we defend Wojcieck, Semenich, Danchenk and others, which means we protect the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I think the words that came out of the rostrum, we all understand and support you. And I think there can be no going back in time. And we always have to take a serious position. The names of the national MPs have now come to light. And I am addressing the Attorney General's Office today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, to provide a complete list of all the offences against the Ukrainian National Deputies. And provide comprehensive information on the investigation of such incidents. Inform the Supreme Council of the use of measures by the law enforcement system to find those criminals who committed these crimes. This is fundamentally important. The Supreme Council will give this an assessment. Dear fellow national MPs! I spoke to Victoria Vojcitsky again this morning, and this is a terrible incident, an attack. Imagine having a child for three months, she slept with this child, with her family in a house where they threw that inflammatory mixture in. This is if she hadn't woken up at 4:00 in the morning and if she hadn't heard, she could have taught directly to her entire family. It's unacceptable! So I demand, like all the MPs here, I think, and society demands that we make it clear what happened and give an answer. Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our work. We have a draft of Law 4057 on special confiscation. Yesterday we held a meeting under my headship, and all interested parties were present. That law was not very clear. Now there's a new law that's being introduced in exchange that can be acceptable, as I understand it, and for that, I think we need to talk about it first right now, because it's a very important question, a few billion dollars that have to be returned to the benefit of the state and the Ukrainian people. But they are so returned that no decent person can take advantage of it, and there is also a question. Please, for three minutes, Ivan Vinnik, then I would like to hear the faction's position under this law that has been worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u4	Good morning, dear fellows! We strongly support Vojcitsky and stress that what happened is unacceptable is an extremely dangerous trend. We have to judge, find the guilty, and punish them. With regard to Law 4057. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Groissman, for the constructively united meeting that took place with the participation of all members of the factions of Parliament who are interested in finally returning the plundered state. Main novels. First. According to Jury Lucenka, we've narrowed the application, the right to apply this law to crimes that have only been committed by articles 191, 255, 368, is the dissolution, it's the creation of a criminal group, and it's pure corruption, it's getting bribes. This applies only to subjects who were civil servants, not to ordinary citizens. The other one. The appeal, and here's the important thing, because a lot of insinuations yesterday about this, as well as false manipulative comments, we heard from the media from lawyers who today want to protect Yanukovich's money and his environment from turning to the government. That this law will legitimize the registration of corporate property rights, shares, and so on. Therefore, we have clearly clarified the article’s specific position that turning to government revenue can be imposed solely on money, monetary values, government bonds, treasury obligations, precious metals, stones of other values, and incomes stored in banking institutions. Therefore, there is no way that there will be any legal registration to be carried out through this law. The other one. I heard from the air yesterday that this money was going to be stolen, as if the fuel of Chicken had been stolen. You know, once again, I want to emphasize that money will come to the Ministry of Finance for the general fund. You know, if with that logic, you have to say that all the 600 billion that are in the income part of the budget are being stolen. You know, these are the wrong labels, let's not hang them. Third. As far as it goes, what are the conditions for applying this law? They are important. According to the Code of Law, if a person cannot be questioned even as a witness, he is declared wanted. Therefore, this law can only apply to persons who are at least six months of State search. Next. You remember wonderfully how people suspected of corruption were killed by us, and in tragic circumstances both of us were killed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society’s leaders. Why was this done? To prevent the state from investigating the crimes committed and returning the looted. So this law will start protecting corruption from death, so that they can face Ukrainian justice and bring back the looted, we will apply appropriate standards. The other one. We took the grounds, a little bit of discussion, at the request of Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u6	3 and Article 284, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Procedure Code that the grounds for the closure of the conduct were not established enough to prove the guilt in court and the exhaustive possibilities of obtaining it were excluded from the law. Because, really, if there's no evidence, you can't arrest property. Similarly, we ruled out the rule that if a law came into force that abolished criminal responsibility and actions committed by a person were also excluded. If an article is decriminalized, it cannot be taken away, confiscate property during a pretrial investigation. Next. A very important thing observed by individuals, how the court will determine whether sufficient action has been taken to find out the whereabouts of the suspect or the arrangements for setting up the owner of the money. So we introduced an appropriate point when the court will investigate and determine whether the State of Ukraine has carried out all the necessary legal search measures to find this person. Third. Helen Sotnik of the Self-Help faction pointed out very well that we need to regulate the rights and duties of third parties, because they can also become subject to the right regulation of this confiscation. We made a reference to Article 64 prime. 2 The Criminal Procedure Code, which today is granted rights to third parties, is equivalent to the rights of the suspect or accused. And Helen Sotnik promised to introduce and propose to Parliament a systemic basic law on the rights and duties of third parties before the second reading. I therefore propose today to vote on this bill as a basis. Why is this important? That's 7 and a half billion dollars of budget for the army and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u8	One last thing, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u9	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u10	We've introduced a bill that cancels the taxation of pensions. You know, enough talking about the Ukrainian people if you don't do anything about it. Let's not go to press conferences but work in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u11	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! You have to talk about the law, not some other thing, and be more tolerant of your fellow national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, calm down, calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues are national MPs! Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I realize that all physical cultures were active when they were young. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it! They're back in place! Stop it! Places, fellows! We're not savages. Come on. All of it! [[B in m in s a l in]] Everybody, calm down. It's nobody's. Look, it's no good to anyone, dear fellows. No one, absolutely. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, That's it, that's it, that's it. Come on, take your seats, dear fellows. All right, we're taking our seats, colleagues. Come on, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we calm down? Do you hear what gool is in the hall, fellows?Oh, my God! 350 people, and everybody's talking at the same time. Everything, everything, calm down. Let's go, colleagues, from factions under this law. Please sign up. Three minutes from the faction. By law, three minutes from the faction, please. By Law 4057. Sign up, the factions' heads will come out. Come on. Opposition Block, Dludenkov. Calm down! And quieter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues and a number of colleagues who can do so! The faction of the Opposition Block, both yesterday and today, speaks of it as an anti-constitutional law. This bill cannot be voted on because the main substance of the bill has remained unchanged, do not believe the statements that show that it is clean. In fact, the bill allows the State's income, i.e. confiscation, prior to the sentencing of the currency court, other cash held in the current accounts. What's he talking about? This may refer to the recognition of the insolvency of the entire law enforcement system, of all Ukrainian courts for the collection of the relevant evidence base concerning the guilt of a person accused of committing a crime. They are going in a very simple, revolutionary, illegal way in which it is actually possible to deprive a public servant of all property belonging to a Ukrainian citizen or members of his family. Accordingly, this is unconstitutional, in grave violation of article 41, article 62 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The bill is implemented by the principle of inviolability of private property, the principle of presumption of innocence. You spit a bill on the body of the Constitution, you spit on the basis of constitutional order, you don't care what needs to be done with the rule of law and the formation of a legal society. There can be no civil society with this bill. With regard to the concealment of persons from investigations, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a clear rule that provides for a special pre-trial investigation that allows you to conduct criminal proceedings in the absence of a suspect or accused person. So to say that the cover-up of these people is impeding the investigation, and you can't take that money, it's not true, it's a disgusting lie. And if some of the initiators who defended the bill at all costs yesterday respond to the criticism that comes from the room, in addition to the requirements of the Constitution, a mental health certificate must be required before these people are allowed into the plenary room. And with regard to pension taxes, I can say that the faction of the Opposition Block is working. We have applied to the Constitutional Court for the crime and unconstitutionality of these laws, which are subject to the taxation of pensions. So you don't have to end up here in love with the people when you took those pensions and social benefits from them!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u13	Please. Let's keep it down a little bit, if possible, colleagues. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u14	My colleagues, I ask you very calmly, but listen carefully. Under this law, a scheme of conspiracies is actually hidden. I don't know who the beneficiaries of this scheme are, but I'll tell you how it's going to work. And then you'll answer that question for yourself. What will happen? This one. This law actually covers two moments. The first point is that Janukovich and the company will never be accused after the cost has been raised in this way. No international court then finds our judgments against Yanukovic legal. And the second is, because of this law, they're going to charge money, they might get into the budget. Of course, the citizens will not see it. As the budget had been cut down before, it would be broken down now. Two years later, however, those from whom the funds will be collected will receive positive decisions in international courts in favour of Ukraine. And Ukraine will pay off its budget full of these funds and additional fines. In this way Janukovic will grow fat and will say that we are exerting political pressure on him. And we will never pass judgment on him afterwards. And the people who now run this scheme will benefit from it, and the state of Ukraine will be responsible for it in two years' time for its costs, citizens' costs, for the money of those who pay the taxes. So, first of all, we're asking the Attorney General's Office to report on how the investigation into Yanukovich and the company is taking place, and why there are no reprimands today, and why there are no legal convictions for the confiscation of this property today. And the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council is forced in an unconstitutional way to decide for the judicial system and for the prosecution. [[Congrats]] The second question. We are interested in how, today, if these ocular investigations do not work, why do we consider Law 4057 instead of considering the law of Heratchenko, which allows opposing condemnations to begin tomorrow after all those who are being searched in Ukraine today, to issue a legal sentence in the name of Ukraine and the name of Ukraine to confiscate these funds. And the last. If these people who stand up for this law were to defend it in favour of Ukraine, they would propose in this law a standard where taxes, such as pensions, would be abolished. And at the expense of these funds, deficits would be covered in connection with this cancellation. Instead, we see no guarantee that these funds will come and will be used for the benefit of the State. Colleagues, this is a crime. I'm offering you no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u15	Oleg Light, please, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I'm looking at you, and millions of Ukrainians are looking at me, and they're thinking, obviously, what I think. How close are you and me to papayas, who are primitive pygmies with you, who don't understand why you came to this room, what people chose you for, and what tasks you have today in front of the country. Honorable, and many, not respectable fellow national MPs! Sadly, you are incapable of seeing your nose. You're primitive, you're petty, you just don't have any chats in your head. You are fighting, fighting, and not seeing the great threat facing our country today! Look what's happening on the outside! He will look at the day - to - day withdrawals from the front when dozens, hundreds of shots were fired at the wounded and the dead! Look at the economic situation as a result of the closure of hundreds of businesses! Are you asking questions about these challenges? Do you make decisions that will make it possible for people to live a normal life? No, it's not. What are you doing instead? And you take the fights, and you take the show, the cartoons, you prove, you try to prove that the $2 billion stolen by Yanukovich doesn't have to go back to the budget, because that's a human rights violation. Stealing Ukrainians, robbing billions of them is not a violation of human rights! To return to the budget, what was stolen from the Ukrainians is a violation of human rights, and Janukovic will eventually prove that he has earned the money. You know what I'm trying to tell you. If you do that, if you don't make the decisions you're supposed to make today, I'm standing here screaming against the election, but you're pretending that I'm going to be in the election, and you're all going to go to the polls and none of you will come back here if you don't change the line of conduct immediately. I urge you, our political power, the Radical Party, we call upon all the democratic political forces of the Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the Fatherhood, Freedom, the UKROP, other democratic forces, the time has come to unite their efforts. Today, the country faces deadly challenges, no one will save us either Washington or Brussels unless we help ourselves. Only in unity is our strength. Only in a group can we overcome the problems, the enormous problems, the economic, political, and external problems facing our country. Stop bickering and quarreling. The quarrels lost the country last century, and they will still lose it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u17	Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u18	Praise Jesus Christ! In the state of war, thousands died in 2 years of war. In the state, thousands and millions of pensioners are starving to death. There are hundreds of thousands of sick children in the country who are dying. And here's 50 billion, 50 billion! – who can save them all. And at this time, it's strange to me, when some of the factions, in ecstasy with their arms around the traitors of the Opole, say that they don't need this money, let them stay Janukovich. I can't understand it. Maybe you don't want to, because someone didn't give you that? Or do you not want to vote for it that you fear for your skins, that perhaps one of you will someday fall under this law? I never steal or steal, and I don't care if it's five years or 50 years for stealing, because I'm not going to steal. People of Ukraine, I ask you very much, everyone: pensioners, parents of sick children, parents of the dead, women of the dead -- look carefully now, who will not vote for this law, remember them, and if you ever give me the will, I promise you that none of this. A fallen who does not vote for you will not escape the most severe punishment. Glory to Ukraine! Shame on the traitors! What? You're fighting for Russia's hero's name from Putin's hands?Oh, my God! What you are doing is to comfort Yanukovich, to the comfort of Putin, not to the comfort of the Ukrainian people, about the love you so end up in, traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This law may certainly require emotion, but emotions, and the right ones, have already been heard from this rostrum. And I want to make a case for the legal nature of the need to vote for this bill. Yesterday, at a meeting with a team of authors, we reached an agreement to correct those mistakes that were made in the original project. And I want to draw attention now to all those who make decisions, from a legal point of view, that this law applies exclusively to funds that are not indicated in declarations that do not show the sources of the coming and the bonds of the state loan. This does not apply to assets, real estate, or other values, but only to undeclared government loans and bonds. Position of the second. This law applies only to civil servants. It does not apply to business; it does not apply to ordinary citizens; it is only to those who, after gaining great trust in the public service, used it for personal illicit enrichment. Position three. The bill provides for the removal of the funds only in the event of a particularly serious crime: only theft (191 articles), bribe (368 articles) and the creation of a criminal organization and banditry (255 articles). There are no other reasons. And the fourth. The State’s income agreement is solely one: hiding abroad for more than six months. Thus, the bill deals with the punishment of those wicked public officials who have stolen funds, cannot explain their origins, have fled abroad, and refuse to come to trial or trial. And exclusively, this applies over the next two years. Another problem that is often raised by opponents of the law, that it is said that such a law can be personalized by Yanukovic and can therefore be brought before the European Court of Justice. So, colleagues, we're adopting a law not against Yanukovic, we're adopting a law for all the civil servants who stole the funds that can't show the source of the coming, and we're hiding from justice in the state. This is a general framework law for punishing the mafia in Ukraine. I ask you very much to vote on this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u21	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u22	Send him to a profile committee and do the same both fairly and legally. Please, all the voices of honest, principled people must be the first to read this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats in the session room and prepare for the vote. The next proposal is to include in the agenda the decision of the two laws: 4057, which we just talked about, and 3196. But I would like to emphasize once again to raise the risk to everyone to understand. If there's a government official who, using his authority, steals funds and hides from persecution, from investigation, these funds have to be stolen from the state and citizens, they have to be confiscated and returned, dot. What's the problem here? Don't steal, and there won't be any problems. If you steal, you'll sit back and return the money. Your money will be returned, all of it. And it's very important that everyone understands that. Now it's actually billions of dollars that can be returned to Ukrainian citizens. In fact, they're included in the budget, they're included in the defense budget, part of that cost, and that's true, as the revenue part, and part of it has to be used to raise social standards, which is also very obvious. My colleagues, once again, I'm stressing that this is about the next thing, we're putting it in the agenda right now and we're only going to be looking at the basis, and then the profile committee is going to be working on this law. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. Please take care of yourself. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please. Let's make sure everyone mobilizes. Signal voting, day-to-day inclusion and decision-making 4057-D and 3196-D. Ready? I ask all national deputies to support this proposal. Vote, signal, please, vote, please mobilize! [[10:42:36]] For 168 The factions. It was a signal vote from a colleague, let's mobilize. Please, from the People's Front, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u24	I'm not talking to the dirt that's gathered in this room, I'm talking to the viewers who are looking at us right now. Two years ago, I came personally to that sector, on February 22, with these guys, gave my cell phone, gave my number, because we were in Maidan for the European state, so that we wouldn't let ourselves be judged, so that we wouldn't commit crimes. And that's when we held up the situation. We, when the state was extremely vulnerable, when Janukovitch and his gang left and fled, when there was no state, Timoshenko and I held the state with these guys. I'll remind you, it was us. Today, the state has faced another problem. You and I have passed the law on absentee justice. We've included a rule that we need to find Interpol. Sadly, for millions of us stolen, billions of Yanukovic hired lawyers. They're not gonna find Interpol right now. We can't launch a blind trial. There are similar laws in all the countries of the world, and this is a lie that pseudo-democrats tell us here. This is a law written on the basis of the UN Resolution on the basis of the ECHR courts. I'm absolutely sure of two things. First of all, we're going to adopt this law, this law needs our state, this law needs our army, this law needs our pensioners. We'll accept it even if we have to bring real activists into this room. And we'll ask each of you how you voted and why you voted like that. And if you have to put four trash cans here, they'll be standing here! And the second is why we're going to accept it. Dear friends, I know for a fact that some of these funds have already changed owners. Already in the West, these offshore companies are being resupplied by arbussive, sly, and others, some of them. And I'm sure whatever effort we have to make, we're going to set up these facts and name these names, these Democrats and lawyers. The People's Front faction doesn't change its mind. Before we vote on this law, no show, no demagogies, no more lies from this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Let's try to vote again, dear fellows. Please take your seats. It's going to be a question of putting the question into the agenda of the day session. Please take your seats. I'm addressing all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament: let's vote, let's put it into the agenda -- it's going to be a signal vote -- we're going to put it into the agenda and we're going to have an article-by-article discussion on this law. Statually. On site? Now re-entry into the agenda. Intruding in the daytime, respected colleagues. Signal vote. Please, come on, let's vote. Alert vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, please take your seats before the vote. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Alert vote, inclusion in the agenda. [[10:48:18]] For-174 174 votes. I think we should consult. I'm calling a 30-minute break. Heads of factions and groups, please go up for the meeting, all the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, on the third floor, 30 minutes off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u26	As the work of the working group continues on the drafting of the bill, honourable fellow members of the national parliaments are suspended until 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u27	Dear fellow national MPs! Please come into the hall. We will continue our work. Once again, a technical meeting was held with faction leaders, lawyers. And in fact, the question is only one. No one has any discussion that the money stolen from Ukrainian citizens needs to be returned to the budget, not to anyone. The only warning is not to do so that we will return them today, and tomorrow someone will take them out of court in favor, again, of those who stole them. Therefore, it must be made legally and clearly. I thank all the lawyers who worked, and Helen Sotnik. They're about to complete the finalization of this issue, and we're going to start looking at these important laws. Let's take it once to make it work, these laws. Or sometimes we have such that slogans are good, as if we're making a decision, and the result is zero. That's it. It's unacceptable. Please come in, your fellow national MPs, to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everyone, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u28	Colleagues, please come into the hall, take up jobs, and we'll start our voting work. So it's important for everyone to focus and mobilize. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u29	Please have the information of the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please, Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u30	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I welcome the fact that we have now agreed for an hour and a half on the final edition, which is about to be brought into the hall. And yet we all need to draw conclusions from our factions, and I'm talking to my colleagues about what we talked about when we were in Brussels. The fact that a degree of political discussion needs to be reduced is that we all have to work for our nation as a team. And so I urge everyone to work today to finally see that the MPs are protecting Ukraine's interests. Once again, I'm talking to my colleagues: let's get on with our work together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the Hall of the Supreme Council, take your seats, we will continue our work. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are continuing our consideration of Bill No. 4057. As a result of a consultation with factions and groups and lawyers, we found agreement on the drafting of this law. I would like to ask you now, Ivan Vinnik, to the rostrum, once again, please inform us under this law. And I think we can now make decisions, put it into the agenda and start its consideration. In fact, there is an understanding of all the factions of Parliament. Please all take your seats, fellow believers, and listen carefully to what has been done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u32	First, there were warnings that the wording mentioned in the law "other values" could be interpreted as shares and property rights, something of a property nature, so we excluded the definition of other values everywhere it was mentioned in the law. Moreover, it was conceptual to note that this law introduced a presumption of guilt. That is, a suspect would have to prove the legality of the money he received. We've changed that. And that's why everywhere in the world right now, the prosecutor's problem is to prove the illegality of the money he's given to the suspect, the accused person. We've taken links to declarations everywhere. Because there have been many warnings that if you look at the valid declaration law, even a person already, if not a civil servant for three years, can in any case be subject to regulation of this law. We took it everywhere. In addition, we have taken the possibility of re-appealing to the court about the possibility of withdrawing for the benefit of the state's money budget. Therefore, if the first concern is rejected by an institution and the corresponding complaint is rejected in the same way, it is not possible to make the same payments repeatedly under the same circumstances. This will ensure the proportionality of the application of this rule, the rule of law. And the last. In the event of an acquittal to the court, Ukraine will be obliged to reimburse for 12 months the costs that have been raised in the course of the judicial investigation on the basis of this law in favour of the State. This also applies to the proportional application of the law. In addition, I want to say that a number of technical legal rights have been introduced, which are already being introduced today, in fact, to prepare for the second reading, and are already contained in the law before the first reading. So I now propose, given that there is this common position, there is now a text, already corrected, by the Chief Legal Authority, to vote on it. Actually, I'd like to give the word to my colleague, Oleni Sotnik, probably to add to what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u33	Please, Olena Sotnik. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u34	My colleagues, I just want to give you a brief explanation of how much there is. It's a very serious deal. We're only voting on this bill on the first reading, and we've removed it, and that's what it's all about: prisummation. violation of the presumption of innocence. The D.A. has to prove illegality and acquire any securities and so on. That's the main thing. Second of all, we removed the property part from there. the owner of which is not installed, but these are all legal nuances. An important nuance is now in the hands of the Supreme Council. We have this bill to consider by full procedure in the second reading with the open meeting of the Committee of the Law Protection Authorities, with amendments, consideration of these amendments and introduction of only a consensus document into the Hall, so that we no longer have cases of confirmation of an amendment or requirement, so that there is consensus in Parliament on the final edition. Only under such conditions can he be voted in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u35	Thank you, Elena. Colleagues, we've done a lot of work on this. But I would like to emphasize and confirm that this decision should be made only by consensus and in full procedure prepared for second reading. And there can't be any there. the balance of this law. And one more minute, please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u36	Colleagues, I'd like to propose to the deputies to support the demand for the General Prosecutor's Office here. Let her know about the case. So we can understand what the situation is and why we need to adopt these laws instead of being tried and sentenced, and we have to confiscate on the basis of the current Criminal Procedure Code. I ask everyone to make this request. If. [[Congrats]] And I really want Parliament to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have an offer to put it into the agenda. It's a matter of making a decision. And then we'll start the discussion. There are questions and answers, and we will begin to discuss this law. All right, Victor Vasilovich. I'll give everyone a word. All right, I'll give you my word in an orderly fashion. I give you my word. Please, colleagues. Is that the logic of action taken? So, please, 4057. For adoption, for inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the decision to incorporate the law now, 4057 and 3196. That's two laws. Well, there was no objection under the second law, as far as I can tell. This is an order of 4057 and 3196.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u38	One at a time, good, good, good. Roger that. Please be included in the agenda for decision 4057. Everyone please take your seats, and let's vote, turn it on. Ready to vote? Everybody ready? We can, we can look at it in full procedure, there are no warnings at all. By full procedure and only in first reading, everything. Is that the logic of action taken? All right, then let's do it. Please be included in the agenda and consider the matter for decision-making. Vote, everyone. We vote, please all support, Your Honor, and we'll follow the full procedure. Is it accepted? Vote, everyone, please. Please support everyone. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote, please. Vote. [[13:04:49]] For 223 Once again, three votes is not enough. It's okay, colleagues, I see, I see, I see. Please, three votes, that's perfectly normal. One, two, three, four. We vote for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. And we'll discuss it in full procedure. Vote? All right, everybody back up. We're voting. We're out of three votes. Please, colleagues, we all vote. All right, everybody back up. We're voting. I'd like your support, colleagues. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[13:05:26]] For 225 Colleagues, one more vote. We're voting again, please, on my proposal. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. Vote, please. Please support this proposal. Let's vote. Vote, colleagues, everyone. Please support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:05:52]] For 222 Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, attention, respectable colleagues! Please take your seats, please. Please take your seats. Once again, my dear colleagues. We need 226 votes to put us in the agenda. We'll start by discussing it fully, each one will express his or her position. Otherwise it'll look like someone's trying to hide something. Well, you don't have to do that. Let's vote again. Please, colleagues, please. Please, colleagues, once again my proposal to join the agenda. Come in, people's deputies, let's vote. Everybody in place? Please. Should we vote again? Everybody ready? Please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone and we'll discuss it in full procedure, each of you will express your position by law. Vote. Please vote. Please support everyone, colleagues. We vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, for full-time discussion. Please, let's vote. Please support me. [[13:07:40]] For 229 There is: 229. Now, dear colleagues, let us move on to the issue of order. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Another was 3196, he was uncontroversial. 3196 - inclusion in the agenda, decision-making. He was incontrovertible, as I understand it. 3196. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the inclusion of 3196 in the agenda. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:08:17]] For 210 Look, he was incontrovertible, 3196. Yesterday, everyone was ready to vote for him. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3196. If it is a discussion, we include it in the agenda and discuss it. Why not include the law in the order of the day and not discuss it? Let's do it again, in the daytime. I'll give the factions a minute, give it a minute. Stop! 3196? Please, Yuri Lucenko, 3196, enrollment in the agenda. Please. Then the procedure? And the full procedure will be discussed?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm not talking about emotion again. I'm talking about legal stuff. We have just passed the Law on turning to the State for money obtained in a criminal way. [[B in m in s a l in]] We just made a decision on that law. But often in the argument that it is necessary to go the other way, saying, not by law, but by trial, to denounce those who have robbed the country in absentia and to collect the funds. So this stealth process is long overdue for the Attorney General's Office. But it cannot jump through limitations, for the law stands only by the law. Indictment can only occur when Interpol decides to declare an international search. Interpol is artificially suspected of being influenced by the Russian Federation and is not announcing the search for Yanukovic and other robbers of the Ukrainian people. Please simply remove this rule, which makes it impossible for the long-awaited Ukrainian society to be open, transparent, public condemnation of those who have killed people and robbed the country. There is no room for political games, just this process is long needed for the final cleansing of the country. I ask all factions to vote in favour of the open trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u41	Not for the conviction, not for the punishment, it's for the court to decide. Our job is to start the trial of this court, which is expected by the families of the murdered, the families of the looted and, in fact, everyone who wants to live in the newly cleansed Ukraine. Please, let us vote for this without political strife.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, 3196 is the inclusion in the agenda. We will continue to discuss the same. I'll give it to you as soon as we vote for inclusion. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion of 3196 in the agenda for discussion and decision-making. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Let's vote, let's support. Ready to vote? Vote. Please be supportive. Attention, colleagues, we vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. "For" is a vote. Please be supportive. [[13:11:12]] For 226 It's on. Now we can cross over. Please, Oleg Lazko, a minute from the voting procedure. During the discussion, everyone will speak. During the discussion, everyone will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, the faction of the Radical Party in its entirety voted in favour of the bill on the return of money stolen by Yanukovich and the possibility of criminal proceedings against Yanukovic. But the Supreme Council board publishes unreliable information about the vote of MPs from the Radical Party. In the data published by the Supreme Council's website, it's as if a member of the Artem Witko faction didn't vote. I demand that you, as chairman of the Supreme Council's apparatus, remove Vitek's membership of the Radical Party because he made an application last September to resign from the Radical Party faction. The faction doesn't work, it doesn't have any relation in our sector, and when it comes out of the faction, it doesn't have any relation to our faction. Similar non-votings by Vítka discredit the Radical Party. That's why I'm asking you to input the data and say "refugee" and "battle" to Witka as non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u44	Thank you. I'm asking the apparatus, I'm instructing the apparatus to process the address of the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk according to the Ukrainian Act. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 4057, complete discussion procedure, we begin consideration of the draft law. As reported by John Winnick. Please report 4057 to the rostrum. The report is by Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I must have reported it several times before, and everyone must have learned what this law is about. I won't tell you why he's important, he's repeated it several times. I am very grateful, very grateful to the coalition factions for being in a balanced position. I fully support that voting is on the basis and in general for second reading, on the basis of consensus assessments and final text. There can't be any regulatory terrorism here when individual remedies are applied to consent, and then they're actually going to change the entire text of the law. And that's very important, what the self-help colleagues said. In fact, the content is well known. Assets must be returned. To say that this is impossible is unacceptable. We, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the country’s supreme legislative body, are obliged to find a legal solution to this matter. And the process started, and I'm confident that the people of Ukraine are finally welcoming the Supreme Council, that it's starting to return what it promised in every pre-election program of almost all the political parties that are now present in the session hall, were paragraphs and those, and demands, and promises that the loot will be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u46	Please, three minutes to ask. Please sign up. We have a question for the reporter. Please, Sergey Kaplin. Very tight, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u47	I would like to thank all the MPs who were involved in protecting this bill and protecting the idea of adopting the legislative acts necessary for Ukraine that will eventually resolve the issue of the return of stolen funds by the gang, the Janukovich mafia. And I'd like to take this opportunity to say that this law will probably be very useful and necessary for the next generation of Ukrainian politicians, for the next generation of councils, for the next Attorney General, because he's going to have to work to prosecute those who are currently robbing the country, and to return what was looted after Maidan to ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u48	Ask questions, dear fellows. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u49	People of Ukraine, I am addressing you, and now is the time to see who is not in this room by word, but in deed stands for you and loves you. See how these traitors, like reptiles, crawl out, trying not to vote that they are simply not making up, they are covered up by the Constitution. I want to remind the traitors that when the Constitution was written, there was no war. If any of the provisions of the Constitution do not match the realities of the present, they can be rewritten, and no one who dies and dies on the front now because of your delay will ever return. Every single one of you traitors will ever answer, I believe it, and I promise you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u51	Ivan Juryovich, I have a question about whether you've analyzed the situation when there's a discussion around this bill that, perhaps, as self-help colleagues, would say that we don't actually have three-day unemployment in connection with the side-by-side of this law. First, invite the Attorney General’s Office to provide clear information on the problem, why the third year in Ukraine cannot complete the investigation of Yanukovic and his supporters. We can't get the government property back, and by the third year, we've all seen and realized that there's a problem with the law. And the second part. As far as you're concerned about this subject as you are with me and the Head of the Supreme Council, what happened to Mr. Shokin's statement? When we consider the matter, vote in favour, the husband asks for a second month to be released. Is it gone? So this fundamental question, we're going to pass the law now and Shokin will be looking for Yanukovich, what are you laughing at here? That's why: both the law and the prosecution and the Attorney General's resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u52	Answer: Deputy Attorney General Govd Roman Mihajlovich was present twice, including yesterday, in a working group between faction leaders when the position of this law was discussed. And the first question he was asked, Why is it not possible to bring responsibility under valid legislation? One of the factors that he was talking about was the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, Yuri Lucenko, really needs to announce the person in an interstate search through Interpol. And Interpol hasn't been looking at it for nine to ten months. The second problem is that the court has to rule separately on absentee proceedings. Similarly, it is blocked in the Ukrainian courts. And the time is running out, the money is needed by Ukraine today, and that's why we agreed that we should really do the procedure for bringing these together. It's the money that's working. With regard to the report of the Attorney General, I am sure that what the faction leaders heard at the working meeting yesterday is worth hearing to the entire Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people in order to really evaluate the arguments that the Attorney General is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Last question: Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, why did I have such a warning to this law, to this bill? I want to say that I have huge doubts about the sincerity of the removal of funds called VAT, i.e. bonds of Ukraine's domestic government loan. These bonds can be removed in a very interesting way: remove them, sell them with a discount, by order of the investigator or the prosecutor, the investigating judge, and then, in principle, by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, pay back to the unscrupulous owners the costs. We'll both lose our money. So I would like to point out that you and I should see very clearly that there is a rule in force regarding domestic government bonds as provided for in the Code of Budgets when they are removed for the benefit of the State and that the amount of government liabilities is reduced by government debt and they are not going to be sold. This is essential so that they do not go to market sales, the UDP. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u55	Ten seconds, finish up, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u56	The second question. Still, the verdict remains, more faithfully, the verdict. So I'd like to ask for a second-reading study involving experts from the European Court of Human Rights so that we don't have to take risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u57	I think it's a good idea. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u58	You've made the right point: how to deal with these GDPs is already settled in the budget. Indeed, government debt will be reduced. But if you open the U.K. State Budget Act 2016, you'll see the huge cost that Ukraine spends on public debt service every year. That is, if the decrease happens, it will change the budget, it will reduce the budget deficit, and it will allow Ukraine to find the right funding, so how can we fund a special fund that is currently budgeted for more than 7 and a half billion dollars for the Ukrainian army, and other programs that will be able to provide these 1.5 billion, taking into account today's market value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. Two last questions: Alona Shkrum and Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, well, I'm not going to say this sort of thing, I'm just going to say that we all understand that this law doesn't have to be taken back by Yanukovich's money. At least it's not just that. And it needs to be because, in fact, we don't have any more where to take the money from. And the money needs the government now. Unfortunately, the government has not created new jobs; the government has not made an economic program; the government urgently needs money that the European partners no longer give them. So, really, the budget is 7 billion dollars per army out of this special confiscation. Already in this room there are 50 billion figures to be obtained from this special confiscation. It's pretty scary stuff, and we understand that then this money will come back again from the state budget to compensate after the cases before the European Court of Human Rights. But no one's interested in "then" because the money needs this government right now. And I have a very specific question. Why do you deprive this bill of the possibility of filing a cassation complaint? Why is an appeal a final decision? And the Constitution of Ukraine doesn't work and there can't be a cassation, and the appeal decision is final. A very specific question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u61	Because an appeal is made by a separate court order and there is an appeal against it. At the same time, in order to maintain the proportionality of the rights of the prosecution, which gives rise to the concerns of the accused, the suspect is presumed to be brought up once and only once before the court. This is a two-step level of protection and those who today say that the law does not make property without a court decision make two mistakes in this sentence right now: the first mistake is that it is not property, it is money; and the second mistake is that the court's decision is two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Svetlana Zlatczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u63	Thank you for the word. I ask you to explain the drafters of the bill, which are the safeguards in this bill on the ability of the European Court of Human Rights to return money to theft. Why is this issue relevant? I would like to remind all fellow MPs that in the last two years, at least five names have been removed from the sanctions list, such as Azarova, Yakimenka, Kalinin and other colleagues. Moreover, the International Criminal Court has not accepted jurisdiction over the investigation of crimes against humanity and war crimes. Why? Because the Office of the Attorney General did not give sufficient grounds, it did not give sufficient reason for these crimes to fall within the jurisdiction and there was an investigation by our colleagues in Europe. So please explain which are the fuses so that the money doesn't go back to stealing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u64	Perhaps in order for us to apply the Tribunal's procedure, we need to vote on the Rome Statute, which has been signed in this Council. That's the first question. The second question. Perhaps if we read the procedure carefully, many volunteers today who are protecting our country can become subject to regulation because we understand that Putin’s influence on European institutions today is insane. As to which safety nets, we reported it, and we want to say it again. The main precaution is that a person who is suspected of stealing money has to hide from the investigation, at least for six months, it's all very simple. If you're not hiding, if you're going to be interrogated, if you're testifying, the procedure for special confiscation during the pretrial investigation for the benefit of the state budget cannot be applied. There is a direct condition in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u66	The court will investigate and establish the grounds for the prosecutor’s trouble, please read the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please don't, I see, the head of the profile committee. As long as it fits, let's move on from factions. Please sign up for three minutes from the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, please sign up. Then there will be speeches by the deputies. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u68	The Self-Help faction supports all the laws that allow money to be returned to corrupters, but there is no person in Parliament who doesn't understand that no law with today's Attorney General is working to restore justice for Yanukovich, his people. And this is the result of the conspiracies of today’s and former leadership of the state. And the Attorney General is the guarantor of this conspiracy. I have a question for all of us and, above all, for the Speaker of the Supreme Council. Victor Shockin, under the pressure of society, finally wrote an application for resignation at the invitation of Ukraine’s international partners. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, the Anti-Corruption Committee, made recommendations to Parliament to vote in favour of Victor Shokin's resignation. What else do we need? When will the Speaker of Parliament put this question to a vote, and we will get rid of this person who is not worthy of the office of Attorney General?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Before me, there was a question. I actually got the committee's conclusion this morning. I sent a letter to the Attorney General to come to the Supreme Council to speak. And we're going to vote on that question. Yeah, I'm waiting for an answer. Please, the People's Front, George Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u70	Dear friends, dear colleagues! I really share the concerns of many of my colleagues, lawyers, lawyers who feel threatened by this law. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that, for example, the main course of my activity is to call on the responsibility of those who violate the rights of our citizens in a temporarily occupied territory. I would just like to provide statistics that I have made over a thousand applications this year to open criminal proceedings against judges, prosecutors, executive services, and other perpetrators of current legislation. But unfortunately, today we have a few dozen so-called suspicions, suspicions, but we don't even see criminal conduct in any person. What does this remind us of? That the system doesn't work. We have to solve this problem. That's why we're here. We shouldn't say he's gone, we have to find a way to decide. There have been many questions about the possibility of reimbursement from the point of view of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. I would like to point out that more than a dozen countries have the possibility of confiscating arrested property into criminal liability. I wanted to point out that there is even the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, namely the Raymondo case, which makes it clear that a person should have a guarantee that, if justified, a person would have a justifiable sentence, that property should be returned. We have provided for this bill a two-line system, as the convention requires. From the decision of the court and in this case the first instance, the second instance. And the court decides whether or not there are grounds for applying it. In this case, this does not violate the first article of the first Protocol of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, namely the right to property. That's why we can work together. We can find common ground. But there is no need to refer to an international norm, given that it has already been counted. And that's what practice is. In order not to solve the big problem, we have to have money that's been arrested, like a person who can't be held criminally accountable for the time being, but that doesn't mean that these funds shouldn't go into the budget. This is the balance sheet of the European Convention, this is the balance sheet of European law. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. I ask all experts to unite and, if you have noticed, to correct these comments, but at a professional level. Money must work and be returned to the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! If we take two bills, the first one that came out a few months ago, and what we just announced at a working group meeting, we'll realize that the approach that was at first, no presumption of innocence, no return in the event that the innocence of the individual is proved, and it's scary -- no possibility of consideration when the person is not in the appeal, which is that the prosecution has to prove the person's guilt, there is no first option. What do we now have, and to what should we make a key point? First. It must be clear that the key principle on which international judicial institutions will analyse the decisions that will be adopted on such a law is the presumption of innocence. And whatever merit or other things appear in this case, it will be a key argument that will exist in the European Court of Human Rights. The second is equally important. So it doesn't work out the way it was in the 17th year when the big revolutionaries, when they started covering up their safes, were finding gold alloys and diamonds, in Lenin, in Obrejinsky and other revolutionaries, telling how they were going to confiscate this property. This is the most important thing that should work as a law in any situation. Third, which is equally important. In this law, we should make provision for the final letter for this law to be applied to those senior officials rather than to the principle of how property relations will continue to be established. That's why if this law contains key norms, namely: the presumption of innocence; if this law has an exclusive list of what's going to happen; and the third, listen to what Chumak said. There is a commitment on the part of a nation that has been bought out by legal and natural persons. Our task is not just after the restructuring of this debt so that this debt will be redeemed by any State and then presented to the State. Our task is to make such a debt recognized as not in keeping with the State’s obligations. And that's more important. Because who will continue to make these commitments to the state — either bought or bought or confiscated — will not be interested in the state at all, for this sum will still lie on the shoulders of our fellow citizens. Under such conditions, our faction is considering the possibility of further consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Peter Dustock's Block, Yuri Lucenko? "Peter Dust Block" by. Please, from the faction. From the faction, the procedure is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! After lengthy consultations with the drafters, we have found a solution that removes all possible threats to human rights violations that make this law effective and, at the same time, cannot be used for any foreign purpose other than property recovery and. In addition to the return of values stolen from the Ukrainian people. The faction voted yes. And this first-reading bill needs to be supported by a profile committee, to agree on the last problem that remains. This is a problem: the protection of the rights of third parties during the trial. It can be decided either in this law or by writing another. another special law to solve this problem. Nevertheless, the law is necessary, it is awaited by society, it is awaited by the military. Today, we must make the right decision about first reading and refer the matter from political slogans to professional discussion on a professional committee of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u75	Thank you. It's radical. The Radical Party faction, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The Radical Party faction immediately supported this bill because it is quite obvious that the funds stolen from Ukrainian citizens should be returned to the budget. And when I'm told that this law seems to violate citizens' rights. Yes, it violates the rights of citizens who, when they come to power, rob Ukrainians, but it violates their right to continue looting and not take responsibility for it. And this is nonsense, when we go to the International Monetary Fund, we ask for those unfortunate loans, instead of offering to sell land, the retirement age to raise everything else. And the money we stole from our own citizens, we can't return to the government budget. It seems the legendary British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said, "There is no budget money, there is taxpayers' money." So the money that Yanukovich stole, it's not the budget money, it's the stolen pensioners' money, the budget, the kids, the orphans. These are the funds stolen from every Ukrainian citizen that could go to social programs, to build housing, to major road repairs. And they, in abuse of power, stole billions, and that's only 2 billion who were arrested in savings accounts. And how many billions abroad have been arrested and still not returned. And here's the question to power, and above all to law enforcement. This inactivity, primarily the Attorney General's Office, has led to the fact that for two years we cannot recover the stolen funds that have been arrested here, that we cannot recover the funds that have been stolen from the Ukrainians, which have been found abroad, in Switzerland, in the Baltic, in America, in other countries. So I demand that the Radical Party faction vote last February against Shokin's appointment as Attorney General. At the time, we told the President that it was his mistake to bring in the person who formed the corruption system of the Public Prosecutor's Office and now to make it seem as if he were reforming it. We've spent more than a year, there's no real reform of the prosecutor's office or the courts, and that means we still don't have independent justice. And that means there will be no economic growth in the country, there will be no investors, there will be no new jobs, there will be no decent salaries and pensions if they're robbed and they won't be able to defend their interests in a fair and non-sale court, in an honest, unprofitable prosecutor's office. Therefore, on behalf of the Radical Party, which today is cementing to save the country, for order in the country. We demand the resignation of Henprocuror Shokin, the real reforms of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the real reforms of justice and real economic reforms to improve the standard of living of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u77	Please, the Opposition Block. Please, People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u78	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I don't know who's cementing here, but this law cements chaos, lawlessness and disorder, frankly. What do we do now? We have adopted a completely unconstitutional law, and we have adopted it knowingly, as have many other bills that are voted here in the plenary room, on the basis of political expediency, and we have adopted it in violation of the Rules. Let us now vote on the resolution on internal reforms and the increased investment capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which Pat Cox presented to us. Thus, he says that the Supreme Council of the Eighth Congress violates the Rules on a permanent basis, carries out a signal vote, a nonsensus for Europeans, but we move on. What is proposed by this law? It is proposed that any person be referred to as a criminal prior to the conviction of the court. But if we go into democracy like this, we'll probably get a lot. In fact, the adoption of this law reminds us in 1937 of the creation of threes without trial and of the investigations of which people were shot. Here, thank God, they don't offer to shoot yet, but they're already offering to confiscate all property before sentencing the court. That is, the principle of presumption of innocence, the principle of inviolability of private property. Someone's been talking about robbing people is bad, and we have to give them back. But if this has been proved in accordance with the law, no one would object to the confiscation of this property, it is a normal European practice at all, but the throating of the entire plenary meeting room and, by forcing all the deputies to support this legislative initiative. Well, I don't know, if the MPs don't have a legal argument, but just emotions, slogans, I'm really sorry that the Supreme Council, based on these motives, is going to make a decision. I can tell you right away that this isn't about Yanukovic or anyone else, it's about every person, a person who's ever held a position. They may be middle-class people with whom they can simply settle accounts. It has to be said that one reason to confiscate is to think about it! — the death of a suspect or accused is after the criminal case has been opened. It would be very interesting when a criminal case was initiated, a person was removed, and the purpose of the court's conviction was to confiscate property. And this is still in connection with the bill that allows special pre-trial investigations in the search, and the Kremlin agents are not only here, but also in Interpol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Sign up, national deputies, we're going to have five shows in three minutes, please. Five national deputies, five performances of three minutes, please register. I'm asking all the national MPs to be in the room in 20 minutes, because we're going to go to the vote of this law, we're going to finish the procedure: there's going to be a speech and a closing word. And then we close this session, we vote this bill, and we close this meeting, the morning session. Dear colleagues! Please invite all national deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, please. Excuse me, please, Yuri Chizmar, has given his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Clearly today, the previous authorities should be held accountable, including for the robberies they committed in the country. And any property that has been looted by the people of Ukraine and is not declared, and there is no reason to believe that it is property legally acquired, and it should be returned to the state budget. And the Radical faction will definitely support that decision. But we demand that this law not become a repressive mechanism in the future that can be applied to any citizen, including political opposition. We demand that this law be directed solely to the team of Yanukovich and the previous gang that ripped this country apart. Therefore, we will uphold the law and, between the first and the second readings, we will make our own decisions. And hopefully some of the shortcomings that I'm about to talk about will be rectified in the process of processing. We are interested to see that this law clearly lists values that may be subject to confiscation because such a blurry list allows for free treatment. And so today we see that there's one point that's very strange for me, for example, personally is when there might be confiscated property whose owner or keeper is not installed, that is, there's no evidence even that it's related to criminal authority. It can't be. All the same should be proved by the investigators that this property today is illegal in possession, and it is unjustifiable in the possession of those who are accused of serious crimes against the State. This rule should therefore be regulated. The second question. We know today the world practice of banking, where there may be property on hold. But the question is, it'll never be open, information about this property if the owner doesn't suspect the crime. So this standard of banking secrecy has to be preserved. Similarly, Ukraine’s legislation, particularly procedural, does not specify the status of third parties. So when we're talking about third people who own property that maybe belongs to corrupts and thieves from the former authorities, we're resisting the fact that procedural legislation doesn't treat it, and that might be the same norm that won't make it possible to apply it. We have already seen the Law on Procrastination by introducing standards that in the future did not allow Yanukovich and his accelerants to be held accountable today. And the law is practically adopted, but not implemented over the year, and today we have to correct it. That is why I believe that today's law -- and the Radical Party supports it -- has to be considered in Parliament, all the rights that will enable it to be effectively implemented, but not to become a tool of repression against political opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u81	Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll report from the microphone you're giving the word to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u82	Please give the floor to Oleg Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u84	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. The bill is necessary, and the law must be voted on. We were all on the ground -- both in Kiev, in Maidan, and in the district centers -- and we promised people that we would come to power and bring back what they took from people. It's been two years. In fact, no money has been returned. Yes, this law needs to be worked out. The text needs to be worked out. And there are warnings and inaccuracies that lawyers can use to avoid the responsibility of the Yanukovic gang. That's why we're here. That's why we came here to fix it. There's a warning in the law. Again, the conduct of criminal offences is indicated, not as to the actions that are marked by criminal offences. This needs to be fixed. Again, the article says that in cases where. And it's not "and" or "or" again. We need to make amends. The court will make a decision on the grounds. The reasons for this article are not prescribed, as prescribed. These are also things that need to be corrected, and we need to correct them. The person who attracts, where the confiscation goes, is hiding in order to evade criminal responsibility. And if a person avoids criminal persecution, he is no longer subject to this law. So this too needs to be corrected. And our task with you is to fix all the moments, find the loopholes that can be used again by lawyers and not to let them do it. That's why I'm now addressing colleagues who came from the bar at the Supreme Council, colleagues who were legal practitioners who were involved in the practical application and application of laws, to look closely at this bill between the first and the second readings and to raise, as required by the Rules, to apply all the regulations so that there is no law that we'll adopt again, which will have to work on, write, and apply any legislation that will not work. The Radical Party faction voted unanimously in favour of putting it into the agenda, and will now vote in favour of accepting it in the first reading. We're going to work on this law, we're going to make all the necessary adjustments, and I'm convinced that this idea with this bill, it has the right to life, it has to be implemented. It's our shared responsibility with you to adopt this law and finally, two years after Maidan, but to return at least what appears to be in the bank accounts, the stolen national funds to the people who voted for us, to the people of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u85	Soloy Yuri Igorovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block." Salovy Yuri Igorovich, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u86	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, it is good that we are considering this law today. Unfortunately, he's going late, but it's also very important that this law after he passed it doesn't end with his failure, but that in the end both the state budget and the Ukrainian citizens should feel the effect and see those returned assets that are now frozen by my gang Janukovic during Midan. I want to take down some of the questions that we have in our room today, which are with warnings, because this law applies, in particular, to three main points. This is, first of all, corruption crimes and property destruction, this law concerns the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and this law applies to article 255 “Creating a Criminal Organization”. Moreover, this law says that it applies only when a person has been evading an investigation for more than six months. Of course, there are a number of points that we need to correct between the first and the second readings. But I believe that this law is clearly to be adopted in the first reading today. This is not only a requirement of today’s time, but it is also what Ukrainian society expects of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich. Next up is Gopko. Please, from the seat or from the rostrum? Anna Mikolayevna, please. Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine! We want justice in our country. Justice means that whoever once robbed our country, made illegal decisions, “broken” different kinds of schemes, and invested all that money in various types of financial projects, he has to answer for it. Since the victory of Maidan, decisions have been taken immediately to arrest some $2 billion in OCHA, a government loan bond on Ukrainian banks. There is information that this money belongs to former officials of the Yanukovic regime. There's a sharp list of names from the country's top leaders. To date, without this law, we cannot take this money, confiscate it and use it to defend our country for its development. Once this law is passed, we will have the opportunity through transparent procedures, through the courts to prove that this money is not legal and can be confiscated into the country's budget. This law will fill our budget and restore justice in our country. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask for the support of this law, it will serve to restore law and justice in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Alexander Leonidovich Sugonjako passes. It does, doesn't it? Thank you. Okay, please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u90	When we adopt an extremely important, unique, timely, and Ukrainian law, I was reminded of 2014 for some reason, along with other colleagues. Time after Maidan. The general prosecutor assigned to Maidan, the minister of internal affairs who was essentially assigned to Maidan, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who was assigned to Maidan, did not need any law! They, like the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who here filmed and appointed presidents, acted in the name of the revolution and the name of Maidan. And as a result, hundreds of thousands of politicians who robbed our country, ministers, ex-ministers, governors, ex-governors all flowed abroad. They calmly, unhinderedly, again, covering the roof of this power block, which was then assigned to Midan, left the country with these billions. And I have no doubt that this time the same situation will take place if this law is passed. Then they were saved by a fist, in fact, by life. And now she's just gonna turn them around the next time. Take those billions of dollars in your pocket! And no pensioner, no simple man, no doctor, no teacher, no military will get a penny. This scheme will work! Were they talking about 1917? I want you to remember, my dears, that a year from now, exactly a year from now will be 2017, 100 years from the revolution mentioned here. And for you, this law is the last thing we do for you to get Yanukovich's money back so that you can atone for the sins you've committed since May Day. Otherwise, there will be new political forces brought into this Parliament by the Ukrainian people, ordinary Ukrainian oligarchs, ordinary Ukrainian citizens. And those oligarchs that were born after Maidan, we're really going to bring them to the Ukrainian court, we're really going to get back what you robbed together. And the individual political forces that today advocate the adoption of this law should remember how they financed those who fled and took away everything Ukrainian took away the Ukrainian billions. Before them are the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u91	Thank you. And the last performance is Shkvariluk Vladimir Vasilovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall, and we will be voting on this bill right after the last speech. On the basis of that, I emphasize. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u93	Vladimir Schwarliuk. To the rostrum, right? Please, from the rostrum, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u94	Vladimir Schwarliuk, People's Front. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, the People's Front faction has repeatedly shown how it blocked the rostrum that we would vote in favour of the bill. We vote in the first reading. If there is a remark, we will work on it between the first and the second readings. If this bill helps bring 50 billion dollars back into the state budget, and I'm going to count it as 10 percent of the country's state budget and that's 50 percent of our state's defence budget. But this 50 billion is a small part of the money that was stolen by the previous president and his team. That's why I stole it. They planted it. The People's Front asks all those present who have not stolen and who are not afraid of being responsible to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. We will now proceed to the vote. Please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. So you've been given an editorial based on this. Then after the vote on the basis we create a working group where we invite. By order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where we will invite experts, national deputies, experts in international law, the ECHR, if necessary, the European Union and international organizations, and we will work out a joint draft law, as stated here, by consensus in order for this law to be consistent with the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people before the second reading, and not to be challenged in any international courts. This is very important. Are we ready to vote, dear colleagues? There will be a signal vote. Colleagues, signal vote. I would like to support now on the basis of this bill, on the basis of this. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues. Ready to vote? So in the proposed draft law on the basis. We are also creating a joint working group with the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work on this bill with international consultants, with the National Deputies and to adopt it on second reading and in general. Is such an offer accepted? Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Signal voting on the ground now, take your seats. They're still coming in, I see, national MPs. Please alert, colleagues. Please support all national MPs, there are voices physically in the hall, I see. But I ask everyone to vote and I ask you to support everyone as a basis only. Vote? Please be supportive. On the basis of that, dear colleagues. We'll continue to work on the committees and in the group. Please be supportive. Vote. Signal vote. Please be supportive. We're all voting. [[14:01:38]] For 212 Very good, 212. I see there's more MPs coming in. Please, according to the factions: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 82, "National Front" – 74, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, "Pradical Party of Oleg Láška – 18, "Papačina" – 7, "Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the people" – 7, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, let's concentrate and open up an opportunity to consider this bill. We can talk a lot about it, we can talk a lot about it, but the fact that the money stolen from Ukrainian citizens has to be returned is a clear fact, and there's no doubt about it. Let's work on this legislation in a way that meets world standards and European standards too. There are similar practices in various parts of the world. Please, Your Honor, let's do it again. I'm asking everyone to support just on the ground. Please, colleagues. In the last edition, which was prepared by the working group. Last line, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, the rating vote is a go. Vote, everyone, please, colleagues. Please vote, please support everyone as a basis. Please be supportive. [[14:03:08]] For 218. Colleagues, eight votes is not enough for us to begin the process of conducting these stolen assets in Ukrainian citizens. I very much ask you, please, to cooperate and please support this question. I'm begging you now. We can do it tonight, but I'm asking you now. Olena Sotnik, one minute. All national deputies, please come to the hall and take your seats. A roll call to vote will be made today on the Supreme Council's website automatically, and you know it. I ask you to support this initiative, please, Your Honor. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u96	Colleagues, see what the problem is and why, I understand, the room doesn't vote. We have a very large number of people in this law, i.e. it's actually every citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u97	Make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u98	There's an offer. In order to make it very hard for us to make it clear that this is a third person, in an article that says "introductions of government revenues are to be proved," it is clear that proof is to be given to these third parties that all these values, precious stones, papers, money, were given to illegal suspects. Thus, we severely limit only the number of people who illegally received these funds from suspects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m0.u99	It could be, I see, the author of the law agreed. Then we do it this way, based on the proposal of Elena Stotnik. Do we have a deal? Do we have a deal? Let's put the signal vote on the basis of a proposal by Elena Stotnik. Please support this. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this as a basis, for the second reading, we're going to consider other proposals. Please, on the basis of accounting, the last edition, taking into account the editorial, the proposal made by Olena Sotnik. The author agreed. We're voting on the ground, please support everyone, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support, Your Honor, we vote, we all vote together, please support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[14:05:28]] For 229 There is: 229. Now we're voting on the basis, no one's leaving. We vote according to my proposal, we vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Please support me, colleagues, all of you. [[14:05:46]] For 228 The law's been passed. 228 on the ground. Based on approved, based, approved. With the amendment of the Captain according to the proposal that I announced, we voted, colleagues. And we will be, the decision taken, adopted as a basis. The working group cooperates and consensus. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, one minute. Okay. Then, dear colleagues, we're 3196, Interpol, what Yuri Lucenko said, we'll start the evening session. I'm asking everyone to back me up. Everyone understands what this is about. And now I'm declaring the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed and the evening session will begin at 4:00. Thank you all very much for your understanding, fellow countrymen!
