ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration of the evening meeting. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I want to let you know our next consideration of our issues. So the next draft of Law 2784. The author of the bill requests that his consideration be postponed. And so we have the last question left in the financial and banking cluster -- this is a question that we've been included in the agenda this morning and which is already on the committee. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on compensation to individuals through the system of guaranteeing the investment of natural persons in damage caused by misuse of banking and other financial services. This is one of the laws that people are asking today to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council, this is the last bill from the Banking Unit. Then we'll move on to the law enforcement block. And so, colleagues, I'm asking you very much that we act in harmony so that we can take a full look at the block of law enforcement, it's very important that we work together. And I'm going to ask my colleague that we take the last law from the Banking Unit to support its consideration of the reduced procedure. If we go into a long procedure, we won't be able to go fully to the law enforcement unit. The committee, as I was informed, unanimously supported this law, so we have good reason to think that in the room we will find a connection to this draft law. So the first question I'm going to ask is that I'm going to propose a reduced procedure, so that the MPs are in place. Please come in and prepare for your registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can we have the registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to register the National Deputies for the evening session. Please turn on the registration system, please log in. [[16:07:28]] 349 deputies registered. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, colleagues, as I said before, we're moving on to the last question of the financial and banking cluster. 5390: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on compensation to individuals through the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to the harm caused by misuse of banking and other financial services. Number 5390. And I'm asking my colleagues to support the review of the reduced procedure so that we can move on to the law enforcement block. Colleagues, I'm very much asking you both to understand, and I'm asking you for your support in this matter. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. And I put to the vote the motion for a brief procedure for the draft Law 5390, which was tabled by the President, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an urgent matter. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, support. Please be supportive. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[16:09:15]] For-144 Everyone please come up, I see the MPs are coming up. Once again, I ask you to vote carefully, and I ask you to support this proposal. Once again, the next block of law enforcement so that we can get through it fully, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. So please take up jobs. And I'm voting on Bill 5390 on a reduced procedure, colleagues. And I ask your support, please vote. Please, colleagues. [[16:10:26]] For a hundred and Five votes are not enough. I'll put it down for the third time, then we'll move on to the full procedure, colleague. We'll be looking at the hour, I don't see the problem, only we'll be moving one of the blocks again for an indefinite period of time. My colleagues, I would like to point out, once again, I would like to make a proposal for a reduced procedure, if there are no votes, we will proceed to the full procedure. Bill 5390, submitted by the President as urgent, to assist bank investors. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm putting to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure, colleague. Please support and please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, back up. [[16:12:05]] For 176 Decision taken. We're going to consider what's most important in today's agenda. And I invite you to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Recently, in our country, there has been a distribution of a scheme by which individuals are asked not to make bank deposits with the bank, but to contract loans with non-bank financial institutions through the bank’s trustee. According to the Foundation to guarantee the investments of natural persons using this questionable scheme was only cheated by Bank Mikhailovsky 14,000 individuals in total over 1.5 billion dollars. Moreover, by misusing the lack of legal and financial knowledge of financial persons, banks did not provide such persons with clear information that guarantees for compensation were not extended to the funds involved. In order to protect the listed category of persons who have been deceived by means of banks and impossibility, I stress that the failure to use such schemes in the future has been introduced by the President of Ukraine to Parliament and has been defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on compensation to individuals through the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons caused by misuse of banking and other financial services (number 5390). The bill proposes to extend to individuals who have been deceived by the scheme, the guarantee of compensation for the funds provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the system of guaranteeing the investments of natural persons. In this regard, it is envisaged that the Deposit Guarantee Fund be entrusted with the task of examining documents for each fraud and, no later than 20 working days from the date of entry into force of the law, which is under consideration, to start payment for the expenses. The law also prohibits banks from carrying out transactions without being reflected in the bank’s liabilities and assets by involving the cost of direct lending.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u3	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u4	The Deposit Guarantee Fund also has the right to claim claims against nonbank financial institutions involving funds in a specified manner, as well as bank-related persons whose actions or omissions have caused damage or directly or indirectly benefited from such actions or omissions. In addition, the project provides for a ban on financial institutions from involving the costs of natural persons with a liability for their return in the event that such a possibility is not expressly provided for by law. I would like to point out that this law, the main tasks of this law, are not only the return of money to fraudulent investors, but also the exposure of the security that I have just talked about to the future so that such situations do not happen again. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for compensation to natural persons through the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to the harm caused by misuse of banking and other financial services) on the basis of and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u5	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergey Viktorovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u6	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Finally, the authorities drew attention to the affected investors. We held a lot of meetings on the basis of our committee, but unfortunately, none of the authorities in the state institution was able to propose how to get out of today's situation. And we only received one copy. And an example of this situation is the tabloids of the Mikhail Bank. In the summer, this issue was under the control of the President, and we know what it is. was created by its task force. Sadly, though, she met only two days ago. On the basis of our committee we held committee hearings on this issue, but unfortunately neither the head of the National Bank nor the deputy came to these committee hearings. This points to the indifference of the National Bank’s leadership today to this issue. My committee colleagues and I have repeatedly discussed possible solutions to the problem, and what scares us is that today the National Bank has no significant plan for the development of the financial and banking system for the next 5 to 7 years. How can we build confidence in the banking system? How do we start lending today, the economy? That plan today that we see on the National Bank site, even the employees of the National Bank today say that it does not meet the requirements of today. On the basis of our committee with my colleagues from other factions, we have developed a strategy for the development of the banking system and have proposed, and we have already registered a number of bills. And we suggest that we step up the investment fund bill both as a liability and as a means of compensating citizens. That is why, despite our common claims to power and understanding the significance of the issue, the committee today adopted a decision: recommending parliament to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Motuzko Olena Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! "Peter Prashenko's Block," the coalition, all the well-known national MPs will support this bill. But I'm pointing out that the fraudulent investors hope to support not only our coalition, but also the voices of the political forces that have led and led to the National Bank and Kiev Street. Please join the opposition block, the Fatherland faction, and support this bill. If you don't support this bill, these fraudulent investors will understand the hypocrisy of your position. I urge the entire room to join the vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u10	From the Self-Help faction, Wesselova Natalia Vasilovna passes the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! What is happening now is not an exception, but a regularity. During the past 10 years, the criminal mechanism of refinance and bankruptcy has withdrawn some 600 billion dollars from Ukraine. This has also been done by those who struggle against it today. This is done by those who are now in charge of the financial system of Ukraine. It's a legitimate but criminal way of choosing people. The National Bank closed down several tens of banks that people had not seen, but which were simply withdrawing money from Ukraine. But at the same time, tens of banks were affected by ordinary people. And today these people are covered up like shields, but those who want to continue to lead that system. Today I am addressing the President of Ukraine, who is the guarantor of law enforcement in this country. If he didn't stop robbing banks, if he didn't guarantee that they'd get their money back, if he didn't punish the directors and the management of the National Bank, without which there would be no tragedy with the Mikhail Bank, it would be impossible to do that. Then people's energy will come out. And this is a big warning to the institutional state today. If we want to preserve the state, we must respect the laws and people who suffer from the mistakes of this state. On the other hand, the real enemies will take advantage of this: they will swing to destroy this state and it will become the slave and vassal of those who were 300 years old, the Russian Empire. The Self-Help faction votes in favour of this law. He is symptomatic and helps only those people. But without punishment from the current Nazbank leadership, the bank leaders who purposely destroy these banks to steal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u12	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u13	Nothing in the country is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u14	Thank you. From the faction of the Opposition Block of Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u15	Hello, respectable fellow citizens! This bill, which is currently under consideration, is very important and fatal to investors who are both protesting and at home, but who have a heart and a heartache for the protesters. However, this is merely an investigation, and what is the reason? Is it possible that a financial institution, using the services of a financial agent acting as a bank, would borrow the relevant funds at a percentage rate, could a given scheme, without prior agreement with the national regulator? I think not, I think it's really a scheme with the active involvement of government officials, decision makers in banking, and this has all led to such terrible consequences. The opposition bloc faction should not be coaxed, nor should it be said that our policy is hypocritical. Of course, we will adopt this bill. But will the adoption of this bill provide answers to questions of interest to us? Probably not. Why? Because the main question is, who will be responsible? And the officials of this financial institution, who have taken up the percentage by using the bank's name in a fraudulent manner, will be liable or will still be held accountable by the representatives of the public authorities who have contributed to the progress of the scheme, will be responsible, in particular, for the officials of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, who have been evading and permissing the scheme. I think that this issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and the legislation in force allows, once again, the perpetrators to be held accountable, but in order to avoid these unfavourable phenomena, the bill needs to be adopted and the opposition bloc faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u16	And from the "Fatherland" faction, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna conveys the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u17	Dear friends, for almost three years now, there's been a policy of the new post-Majdan Authority and one of the consequences of this power's work is a corrupt, completely unprofessional, completely oligarchial thing is that people have been given a fee three times lower than before. Everything is ruined: small business, family budgets, and in fact, about 400 billion dollars have been confiscated from people because of the National Bank's policies, which are perfectly accurate by the President of Ukraine. Today, people do not know how to live. And they, for many years waiting for the result, joined together in a single board of fraudulent investors, including those who accepted foreign exchange loans, and announced to this day a gathering of all the people who had suffered from the banking system in order to press on the President and force action. And I want to welcome today all the fraudulent investors, the ones who took the currency loans. This worked, your very union, your very power of synergy, your pressure on the President personally. And the President, fearing your action today, invited the fraudulent investors to the Mikhailovsky Bank and signed a bill before television that will be voted on today. We'll back him up. And what I'm saying is that this is a real victory for people. Without street pressure, unfortunately, not this President, not this Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers, can't act. And that's why I want to address all Ukrainian citizens right now. Your life is deliberately destroyed by the corruption of the highest species, the President-Oligarch. Fight, don't give up! Ukraine is a strong and prosperous nation, a strong nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u18	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u19	A strong nation can conquer this dark besie that is today. And I know that people will unite and act, and they will achieve the same result as they do today. Congratulations and thank you to all the fraudulent investors and those who took the currency loans. Keep moving!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, who else is going to come out of the factions? People's Front. To know the farthest thing. It's a radical party, isn't it? Colleagues, two more speeches, and we're moving on to making a decision. After five minutes of making a decision, I ask that you invite all the deputies to the hall. Please, from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you all to support the bill submitted by the President regarding the settlement of the issue of fraudulent investors. I used to communicate with them, too. They're out there on the street, and they're justly asking us to settle these conflicts. But I was talking to those investors who weren't brought in 500 bracelets from Zitomier who weren't picked up all over Ukraine to shake things up, to go to a rally under the NBA with the Environment to start a social and political situation in the country. We're not going to let people down for anti-Majance, we're not going to do that. We, the People's Front faction, were almost complete members of the Dignity Revolution. At that time, we stood behind the idea, not for 500 dollars, in order to import and resolve our own issues. So we're making decisions right now, we're settling the issues of fraudulent investors who really need our help. And I don't advise these politicians because we see that the people of Ukraine won't believe you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u22	Colleagues, closing statement. There were no more. I ask very concisely and we move on to making a decision. Please, the Radal Party Fisherman and ask everyone to come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, indeed, the issue of the defrauded citizens who have invested their money in the Mikhailovsky Bank needs to be resolved. But we would very much like not to solve this issue by hand, not by Parliament, not even by the President. We need to address this issue in a comprehensive manner in order not to allow the issue of fraud in the future. I think that in our country we have to have a strategy for developing a financial banking system, that we need to know how to update today's trust in the banking system, how to start the economy today, how to start lending. As for the issue of the fraudulent investors of the Mikhailski Bank, the question is, where did the National Bank look? Where were those departments to oversee the schemes that were in place? That's why the Radical Party faction supports this bill and we think that this is a question of confidence-building in the banking system that we have to solve in the complex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me for a job, let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote -- colleagues, please come to the Hall -- the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on compensation to individuals through the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to the harm caused by misuse of banking and other financial services (number 5390) in accordance with the Committee's decision on the basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:30:30]] For 285 The law is passed. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is a good example of dialogue and the Supreme Council with society, and of understanding the President, and of how to solve the problem that stands. So, colleagues, we've completed the block of finance and banking, and we're moving to the cluster of law enforcement. Colleagues, we're moving to the law enforcement unit. The first is the decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the local self - government authorities to monitor the state of law in the State and in the respective territorial communities (room 5198). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of this decree by summary procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please. [[16:31:42]] For-187 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers and local self-government authorities on the exercise of control of the state of law in the State and in the relevant territorial communities. The decision on the need for the development and adoption of this decree was taken unanimously during a special meeting of the Committee on September 21, 2016. The draft regulation contains: First. Recommendations by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of law and order in the country, the results of the reform of the National Police of Ukraine. The other one. Recommendations to the local self-government authorities regarding the hearing of information from prosecutors and heads of the National Police authorities on the state of legality and the fight against crime, public order protection and the results of activities in the area concerned. The implementation of these recommendations will allow for a thorough analysis of the causes of the increase in crime, its ways of overcoming it, and the progress of the reform of the Ukrainian National Police. The decision was made by all members, almost all members of the committee. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 5198) on a basis and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. From Peter Dustenk's Block, Irina Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenko from our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Ukraine has faced a dangerous situation with a crime rate in our country. Such a situation requires immediate intervention by the Supreme Council, or according to the Constitution, the Supreme Council itself is responsible for monitoring State processes, including the activities of law enforcement agencies, central executive authorities and local self - government. That is why we support and insist on the need for a decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the authorities of local self-government to monitor the state of law enforcement and the fight against crime in their regions. To call local councils of prosecutors, heads of the National Police, to hear a report on what has been done and what will be done to stop the crime. I can tell you from my native Odessa district, where in the last five and a half years, a team led by the Misha Shatunishvili and its head of the Odessa National Police, Lortkapanidze, have carried out such a work that the Odessa region has become the worst, worst in the country at the level of crime. It's never been like this. Today, Odessa is the worst. And that means that we need to restore parliamentary control, control of the Cabinet of Ministers and control of local self-government for what's going on in places, because our law enforcement system is struggling with the challenge that today is facing the state, the sharp increase in crime, and we have to answer that. So I call on all colleagues, on behalf of the Peter Prashenko Block, to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u29	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, I wasn't in the hall when the previous law on the return of funds was being considered to the investors of the Mikhailski Bank. I would like, Mr. Head, to use your attitude towards the opposition faction of the Radical Party to address the investors of the Mikhailski Bank. Our faction voted to pay these people back. But I have a question, the debt there is 1 billion 200 million, this money is coming back from the budget, I ask, and who's going to answer for what Bank Mikhailowski spent and now from the budget, instead of giving it to the hospital, to the school, to the kindergartens, to the roads, we have to pay the investors of Bank Mikhailowski. I have the answer to that question, the Head of the National Bank of Honduras is responsible. It is her policy that this year alone, through the Deposit Guarantee Fund, 80 billion dollars were paid to depositors of bankrupt or artificially destroyed banks from the state budget. Imagine just for a second, they've artificially destroyed 80 banks, they've taken their property, they've taken their legal persons, they've cut off their personal resources, then they've paid 80 billion dollars off the government budget to cover what's called the successful work of Gonnaar. Last week, European Union ambassadors met with Potteraeva and told her what a great reformer she was. Take this great reformer, because it is too expensive for the country and for every Ukrainian. Because every Ukrainian in his own pocket, out of his own taxes, has to pay for corruption at the National Bank and the unprofessional activity of the Potters. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires the adoption of changes to the Constitution so that Natzbank makes low rates of interest and employment for Ukrainians. This is the main task of Nazbank.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u31	From the Self-Help faction, Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Paul Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u33	Paul Kostenko, "The Self-Help Union." Dear colleagues, we understand that this ruling is only a recommendation, but I think it is just now time for our state to address the level of crime we have seen recently, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prosecutor's Office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and all district and local councils. It is vital that we look at the issue of crime both locally and in our country and make appropriate recommendations. The ruling is purely a recommendation, so the Self-Help faction will vote for it and ask everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u34	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Bogdan passes the word to Cosemiakin Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u35	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction will support this decision. Primarily because, in fact, there are questions that have to do with the increase in crime today. One. Second, some questions have to do with the reform of the National Police. Two. And the third is that this ruling, I think, in recent years, gives me the first opportunity in a month, after we've taken this decision with you, to the boards of all levels, I repeat, to the boards of all levels to listen to law enforcement, to listen to the head of any rank of the National Police in the area, in the city, in the district, and the head of the prosecutor's office in the same area, in the city, in the area. So, we think that the Supreme Council's recommendation today to the Cabinet of Ministers is about acceptance. on the issue of the state of law and order and the fight against crime and the holding of a special meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today, it is timely and necessary for the National Police to be present here as head of the National Police, Mr. Troyan, to hear her stop today and look at the reforms she has made, and to continue to do everything she can to keep the National Police working effectively today, and the increase in crime in the end. That's why the "Fatherland" faction supports this decision. We'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a discussion. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. In the presentations, all the political factions who spoke supported the decree. And this is one of those decrees that can unite our hall. I'm asking you to take up jobs, and we're moving on to making decisions. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the local self-government authorities for monitoring the state of law in the state and in the respective territorial communities (room 5198) for the proposal of a committee as a whole. We take the decision as a whole. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:42:19]] For 258. Decision taken, decision taken. Welcome to the author of the decree. The next decision of the law enforcement branch is the decree on the remembrance of Ukrainian National Guard fighters who died on August 31, 2015 at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defending freedom and democracy in Ukraine (number 3275). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider this decision on a simplified procedure, my colleague. Please vote, please support. [[16:43:09]] For 215 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Mikol Leonidovich to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the author of this decree is my colleague, Anton Gerashchenko, who is absent for an important reason: he has just had a daughter. I welcome Anton and we all. [[Applause]] But it is the determination of those who protect our lives and the lives of our children. There's no political grade here, it's very short. Paragraph one: Condemn acts of violence and terrorism on political or other grounds. Paragraph two, entrust the Supreme Council leadership with considering the creation of a memory board in the Supreme Council walls, identifying the names and names of the four dead fighters of the National Guard of Ukraine, Debra, Slasnikov, Kostina and Datsuk. As a result of the review, the committee recommends a draft decree on the commemoration of the memory of the National Guard of Ukraine, which died on August 31, 2015 at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defending freedom and democracy in the country (number 3275) as a whole, a protocol for the Committee on Culture and Spirituality meeting number 44 from 07.09.2016. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, with determination all are familiar, it is short. Is there a need to discuss? Can we vote? We can vote. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree to commemorate the memory of Ukrainian National Guard fighters who died on August 31, 2015 at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defending freedom and democracy in Ukraine (number 3275) at the suggestion of a committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:45:22]] For 262 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, I see you are desirous of saying your position. Colleagues, dear colleagues, come on, I'll ask you, I'll give Irina Heratchenko one minute, she's been talking to the dead's moms. Because we don't want to start the discussion after the end. Please, briefly, Irina Heratchenko, who will sum up our vote and the problem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u39	I would like first of all to address the families of the dead Nazis on behalf of us, honourable colleagues, because, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I had a meeting with the families of the dead on August 31st and we were talking about what we were supposed to do in September. I want to apologize to the families of those who have died for the fact that we have only adopted this decree in Parliament today, but it is very important that there are so many votes. And to promise the families that we will likely continue to maintain contact with the families of the dead and to honor the memory of those boys who then stood up for freedom of Ukraine and independence. I propose to honor their memory now with a moment of silence, which will be very proper.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have adopted a decree on the memory of the dead near the walls of the Supreme Council. And to a large extent, their death is also the result of political adventures. Let all of us today, voting for it, be in full responsibility so that we do not, by our actions, cause our heroes to die, not on the front, but die here in Kiev, under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I thank everyone for supporting this decision. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda: the draft Act on the National Police Disciplinary Statute. Present responsibility of the National Police of Ukraine, Troyan Vadim Anatoliyovich. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this draft law by summary procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:48:32]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the National Police of the Ukraine of Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u41	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I offer you your opinion on the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for the approval of the National Police Disciplinary Statute, which recognizes and recognizes the essence of the official discipline of the National Police, the authorization of the police and their leaders, with respect for them, the type of encouragement, disciplinary involvement, and the order in which they are applied. The disciplinary charter has four chapters: and the chapter, the General Position, reveals the essence of the discipline itself and the responsibilities of the managers; the chapter II, the Encouragement chapter, reveals the essence of encouragement as a means of providing service discipline; the chapter III, the Disciplinary Reunion chapter, defines the order in which the police are drawn to disciplinary responsibility for the violation of service discipline, the type of assembly, the application by the managers to the police and their terms of transfer. This chapter also provides for the formation and functioning of disciplinary commissions. Chapter IV, this is "The Calculation of Encouragements and Disciplinary Convocations", provides that the incentives and convocations that have been applied to police officers are to be calculated and that is to say the information given to his particular case. In addition, the draft stipulates that the old bill, which was with the Ministry of Justice, is being annulled and that it becomes legal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u42	Thank you. Please take your place. I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u43	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I think it's clear. Why? Because, as the great general has said, "Ministers of the Constitution--you will win honor and glory," so, of course, the National Police, unfortunately, did not have this disciplinary statute until today, and it's draft Law 4670, it's today, it's the draft of the National Police Disciplinary Statute Act. According to part two of article 19 of the National Police Act, the grounds and order for drawing police officers to disciplinary responsibility, as well as the application of police incentives, are defined by the National Police Disciplinary Statute of Ukraine, which is approved directly in the Supreme Council by law. To meet the requirements of the Ukrainian National Police Act, this bill was drafted. The statute also defines the nature of the service discipline in the National Police, the authority of the police and their leaders, and their observance, the type of encouragement and discipline, and the order of their application and prosecution. Well, who's served, he knows. Thus, after reviewing and discussing the provisions of the draft Law, the members of the committee noted its relevance and made specific comments and suggestions regarding its improvement. One of the main problems highlighted by members of the committee is the loss of Ukraine’s State Fiscal Service to the possibility of applying disciplinary responsibility and encouragement to members of the tax police, according to the disciplinary statute of internal affairs. I don't think it's a big problem, it'll be solved in time. Therefore, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u44	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it now? There's a need. There is a requirement to discuss. I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. There'll be fewer who want to talk about it, we'll save time. Please. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Velichovich. People's MP Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, to not take long, because we have a number of other bills ahead of us, I request everyone. The People's Front will definitely vote for this bill. And we call on all our colleagues to support it and the disciplinary charter of our new police force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u46	Thank you. The National Deputy Tetjana Richkov is giving the floor to the National Deputy Mustafa Najem, please. Mr. Mustafa, from the seat, from the rostrum? Please, Pallamarchuku gives the floor. Microphone to the national deputy of Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, this bill will allow the police to bring order to their home. Without this bill, there can be no police without a statute. So I'm very short. I'm asking everyone to support this bill as a police toolbox so that they can put order in their home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u48	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Ruslan Bogdan, please. From the rostrum or from the place will you be? Ruslan Bogdan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u49	Good afternoon. The Fatherland faction, Bogdan. Colleagues, at last a year after the reforms began, were able to submit a draft of the new Police Disciplinary Statute. Where it is seen in the world that such a service will work for a year without a statute. Thus, it is suggested that even in this statute, the list of incentives for police officers should be reduced. We leave only a bonus, an honor card, a gift, and a name gun. What has been the cause of such encouragement, such as gratitude, honor, or additional leave? By the way, one of the best ways to encourage a worker, especially after he's done a long and difficult job, is to take a vacation. At the same time, the "Fatherland" faction understands that this document is necessary and will be supported in the first reading. But it needs to be worked out very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u50	Thank you. Please give the floor to your colleague, Mr. Costenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that as early as July 15th, we passed the Police Act. This law stated that during the month following the adoption of the law, the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Police was to be passed. It's been over a year. It is hard to imagine how the police can work without having an internal regulation, this bill of the Disciplinary Statute. It's encouragement, it's punishment, it's transgression, it's all there. The Self-Help faction urges you to vote for this bill, although it is very difficult, very difficult. And we're going to try very hard to get him to work on his second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u52	Thank you. The discussion is over. Did all those desirous of factions come forward? Please, from the non-fractional People's Deputy Levchenko, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u53	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. We see how the essentially police state is now being built, the things that were during the Yanukovic regime are being restored, and they're even increasing by two or three. And so it's very important that there be maximum involvement of the public at any point in the control of so-called law enforcement agencies. Therefore, this bill is very important for the second reading, and without it it cannot be accepted, it must be stated that it is a duty, not a right, to form disciplinary committees. That is, it is imperative that the public be involved in the formation of disciplinary commissions, not necessarily on request. Only this will ensure their objectivity and transparency, even if they have some formal transparency. Moreover, the bill does not specify the number of persons to be made up of a disciplinary commission or who and on what basis its composition should be determined. Without the definition of such things until the second reading, this bill cannot be adopted under any circumstances. Therefore, this must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the committee, and it offers only as a basis. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready to make a decision. So, colleagues, let's support the National Police. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft law on the disciplinary statute of the National Police of Ukraine (number 4670) as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please support me, support the National Police and please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:58:35]] For 248 Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Troyan. Welcome to the committee's decision. Next draft of the Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the National Police Act on the assignment of special titles (number 5006). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[16:59:14]] For 201 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u55	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the National Police Act on the assignment of special titles (registration No. 5006). The bill provides for amendments to articles 71 and 83 of the Ukrainian National Police Act with the aim of regulating the question of assigning other special names to the police, who are seconded or seconded to the State executive authorities, enterprises, institutions and organizations in accordance with the position taken. In particular, it is suggested that the President of Ukraine designates a border special title for posts that may be assigned to police officers and may be assigned to public authorities, institutions, organizations and police service. In particular, it is established that the assignment of the special special names of police seconded to police officers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the authorities of local self-government for the administration of the designated authorities to comply with the requirements provided for by this law, provided that a special term is assigned to a special term, provided that a police officer takes up his last position prior to his departure under article 83 of the Act. In so doing, the assignment of special appointments to police officers who have been left in the service of the police to state bodies, enterprises and organizations will be made subject to the submission of managers of designated business bodies, institutions, organizations or their authorised representatives who comply with the requirements provided for by this law, provided that the special title assigned to them corresponds to the border special title of the office to which the police officer holds the office in the public body, enterprise, institution, organization to which he is assigned. These are changes to part nine of article 83 of the Law. The conclusion of the GNEU. As a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The administration of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u56	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u57	He doesn't deny it, and he doesn't have any proposals for the bill. On the basis of the proposal made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill was based on the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u58	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kozemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u59	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to say that this is really a technical bill that regulates changes to articles 71, 83 of the National Police Act on the assignment of special titles. I'm not going to repeat myself, as Michael Petrovich Palamarchuk said, because he, as the committee's first deputy head, also the drafter of this bill, supports it. I just want to say that the assignment, namely the new novelty, the assignment of other special names of police, deployed and left in the service of the police to state bodies, enterprises, institutions, organizations, and organizations, will be carried out, and this is important, for the appointment of managers of the designated bodies of enterprises, institutions, organizations or their authorised representatives, and not directly of the leaders who work in the police of those who are assigned to organizations and institutions. Under the condition that the special title assigned corresponds to the boundary and special title assigned to the office, dot. It's, let's say, redrafting the law, it's bringing the rules of this law to, in fact, the challenges that exist today that relate to police officers working in institutions, organizations and deploying them to perform their functions. Thank you. Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the technical bill, can we support, or is there a need to discuss? On the ground, yes, just on the ground. Colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the National Police Act on the assignment of special titles (number 5006). I ask everyone to come into the hall and please support this bill on a basis, just on a basis. Please vote, colleagues, for the committee's decision on the basis. If you'll excuse me, we'll support the National Police. [[17:04:25]] For 244 Decision taken. Next bill, 3791. But I've come to the fore for a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Prashenko Block. But ready to replace both factions with a break from the rostrum. Please, three minutes, Maxim Burbak. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head, we ask you once again to put the vote on the order of the day order number 5350. Because there were not enough votes when we voted, but I would like to explain the point of that decision. This is the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Security and Defence Council regarding the listing of the sanctioning Yanukovich and his gang. We're almost a year away from implementing the Special Confiscation Act, because there are some ideas and some inaccuracies here, but we're introducing personal sanctions against Yanukovic and his gang. Secondly, we always go to our European colleagues, to our Western partners, not only to extend sanctions, but to extend them. Instead, we did not even succeed in bringing Yanukovich and his gang into the list of people who are subject to sanctions. So I ask you to put the vote again for inclusion in the agenda, and then we can discuss all the claims that, again, I'm sure will be in this room. Because I know there's his supporters here, his colleagues, and there's the Kremlin cans that were brought here using the Inter Channel. So, Mr. Head, please stand up and I'm sure I'm addressing all the members of the conscious, responsible deputies to support this. Thank you. 5350.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make two comments. One. The faction can take a meeting once – either in the morning or in the evening. And that's why the faction that took it in the morning can take it in the evening. This is about appeals to questions of the Rules. With regard to the vote. Indeed, we lacked only two votes during the vote. And indeed, this bill is actually a bill in the field, which is a reference to the RNB for the sanctions of Yanukovic and his environment, for the extension of the sanctions list. And I really think that we can put it to the vote again, just to put it into the agenda, colleagues, just to get it into the agenda. And I think we can mobilize the hall because we've had additional consultations, not all of them have been informed about what this bill is about. But after political consultations, it seems that there is complete unity in the room. This is the extension of the sanctions list to Yanukovich and his environment, colleagues, that's 30 seconds. And I am proposing once again to include in the agenda of the day session, only to include in the agenda of the day session, the draft Decision on Measures to Protect National Interests, National Security, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine, Combating Terrorist Activities (number 5350). Expansion of sanctions, extension of Yanukovich, inclusion only in the agenda of the session. Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. This is a decree made by the four heads of factions. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:08:38]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'll put it back on who didn't make it. I'm back on the factions, please turn it on. The questions are resonant, I see they're not there, I'm asking you to come into the hall, not come in, but come in, my friends. Colleagues, this is really the field order of the day. We require our Western partners to extend sanctions against Yanukovic and his environment, and we cannot make that decision on our own. Colleagues who cosponsor this bill are Igor Green, Oleg Lazko, Maxim Burbak, Oleg Barresuk. Supported by the committee, it is only proposed that the agenda of the session be placed in order. Just getting into the agenda of the day session, colleagues. I'm voting again, and I'm calling for your support. I'd like to make an offer to put the session in order. Colleagues, please support. Why? Colleagues! 5350, scheduled for the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote, Colleagues, inclusion in the agenda of the day session, 5350. Please, colleagues, we're voting! [[17:10:10]] For 216 By faction, include, according to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 83, "National Front" – 70, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 14, "Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 10, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the People" – 0. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is the draft Law 3791, the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts, to extend the validity of this Act to former employees of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:11:15]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kremeny Taras Dmitrovic. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u63	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, your attention is given to the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts to extend the validity of this Act to former employees of the internal affairs agencies of Ukraine. I want to prove to you that last year we passed a number of laws aimed both at creating the National Police and creating appropriate conditions for its development and reform. However, along with the unfortunate introduction of appropriate changes and additions to some Ukrainian laws on 7 November 2015 by pensioners and veterans of internal affairs bodies working in the National Police in the positions of civil servants, they have lost the opportunity to receive well-deserved pensions. Therefore, while restoring social justice, the Ukrainian Act (number 900-8) was adopted on 23 December 2015 to amend certain laws of Ukraine to guarantee the social protection of former employees of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine and members of their families, which took effect on 29 December 2015. In line with this law, since December 29, 2015, changes have been made to pay pensions to pensioners and veterans of internal affairs bodies, government officials, but from December 29 to 31, 2015. Clearly, this technical error has resulted in consequences. Thus, throughout the year, veterans of internal affairs that are held by government officials in the authorities of the National Police of Ukraine are not able to receive pensions. So I go to the hall, to support this law in the first reading, to support those veterans of internal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u64	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement Reviewed at its meeting on 3 February 2016 the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the application of the Act to former employees of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine. The project is of a technical nature and aims to restore guarantees for the social protection of former workers in the internal affairs offices of Ukraine. The bill proposes to include in the list of persons who do not have the rule of limitations on the payment of pensions or monthly life support during a special period, pensioners serving in military service or in positions in the National Police. I would like to remind you that as early as December 23, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law No. 900, which restored pensions to pensioners and veterans of internal affairs, government officials. But the next day, Ukraine's 911 pensioners, state officials working in the National Police, were again denied pension rights from January 1, 2016 because of the absence of the National Police among the lists of military intelligence listed in section 3, paragraph 3, once again, regarding the absence of the National Police, there is nothing more, just two words: "National Police." Therefore, the committee recommends acceptance as a whole, as a matter of law, because this is a technical correction of the mistakes made by the government in preparing the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have a bill on your hands. It's really just an addition to the words "The Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine" to the words "National Police." A technical thing that can only be arranged at the legislative level. So let's support the committee's decision, colleagues. It's really a technical adjustment that we just have to complement. And I'm asking you to support the committee's decision colleague as a whole. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts, to extend the validity of the Act to former employees of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine (number 3791). According to the committee's decision on the basis and in general, just two words. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:16:47]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're going to have a full discussion of the next draft of the Law, and it's a very intense discussion, but it's important. This is a draft law on search and search (number 4778). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Yes, for short, please support. [[17:17:28]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee who will be speaking both as the author and as the committee, and therefore four minutes of the minutes of the minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u67	Thank you, thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies, especially those who are really familiar with the operational and search activities and have once or twice in their lives been involved in operational and search activities. Your point is to consider this draft Law on Operational Search Activities (No. 4778), authored by the 12 National Deputies of the Committee on Legislative Protection. The need for and development of this bill was due to the fundamental changes in society and the state. To those who do not know and who have never served in the law enforcement agencies, I want to say that there is a law in place today and that there has been a law in the field on operational and search activities since 1992, which has not been morally outdated, it is already completely lagging behind all the money that has been adopted and into the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code, the creation of the National Police, the adoption of a bill on the Attorney General's Office and others. This inadequacy has particularly intensified over the last three years in connection with the acquisition of validity, as I have already listed, of the Criminal Procedure Code, of the National and Corruption Bureau Act, by the way, too. And we discussed this project with the NABU’s management before working on it, too. Experts from all colleges, universities of law schools, who are preparing today's intelligence specialists, make, make changes, comment, but support the bill as a matrix. Such a situation is based on the need for fundamental changes, which, by making changes to the law in force, seem to be of no use, and this makes it necessary for a new legislative act. Because to the old bill, the OCR Act. I'm sorry, 112 rights, changes, 112! So we don't have to make another 115 today, 113 today, or anything like that. We have to make a new law. This bill is made up of nine chapters. These chapters contain nothing, as some claim, that "the shadow of King Hamlet" or the NCSC. Some people are getting cold feet, sorry, black ravens and knocks, they say, of the knuckles that came in in 37 years. There's nothing to it. The bill is based on the same laws as in Italy, the German National Police, the Polish Police, the French Police. There are some changes that have to do with today's bill that we want to create a more public, more accessible opportunity for every Ukrainian citizen to look at an undisclosed system of operating and searching terminology. They're opening this bill and they're looking at what audio control is, what silent observation is, what is operational-search activity in general. And by opening this law. project, they get all the answers clearly. So the first chapter defines all the basic terms that are used in it. And the task of search-and-rescue has been solved. Today, in many books, movies that come, not only are made in Ukraine, and from abroad, I'm sorry, that law of 92 is so old that children even in Ukraine know more than the operational composition that is used in the 92nd Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u68	Thank you, dear fellows. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please, from Peter Dustenka's Block, Winnick Ivan Yuliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, in support of the idea of this bill as a whole, it is indeed necessary to amend the basic law governing the operational and search measures that are carried out by the bodies of the pretrial investigation and not only. We would like to point out that this project is severely limited in the ability to carry out search-and-research actions, specifically the Directorate-General for Intelligence of the Ministry of Defense. Of the operational and search measures envisaged by this project, only three will be able to carry out the service, the military personnel of the Directorate General of Intelligence, authorized to carry out the relevant activities of the Ministry of Defence. You know, today, when Ukraine suffers from Russian aggression, the General Intelligence Directorate is an institution that is very much involved in any counter-terrorism threat and measures for the security of our state. So I'm confident that the second reading should take into account the Ministry of Defence's observations and give the necessary opportunities to the Department of Defense's Chief Intelligence Directorate, otherwise it will be a matter of national security, not law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u70	Thank you. From Fatherland, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Passes the word to Krulkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u71	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The "Fatherland" faction will fully support in the first reading the bill presented by our colleague Mr. Kožemiakin. But, dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to that draft decision that we were trying to include in the order of the day five. This is about Bill 5350, which deals with the protection of national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity, in order to explain in more detail what this draft decree is about. It's about personal sanctions against Yanukovic and all his bends. Please tell the Post-Majdan Parliament that such a draft decree cannot even be included in the agenda? A very simple random analysis of how the vote took place shows that the previous decision had 244 votes in favour of the previous law, and then suddenly it became 217. Problem: Where did 27 votes disappear? And 27 votes went missing in the Peter Poroshenko Block, whose head of the faction was also signed under this draft decree. So I'm wondering, where are the surrogates? Where's Moscow's hand? Where are the people and deputies who don't vote to impose personal sanctions on Yanukovich and his entire scroll? There's Pshonka, there's Zacharychenko, there's all those who destroyed Ukraine. So let's really invent these shatuns, bring them out into the light and show who today is against protecting national security, against protecting national interests. Don't look for a black cat in a dark room, but look at you, watch the vote, and be statesmen, stop being Moscow's hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u72	From Self-Help, Vojcitsky Victoria passes the word. Deputy Semenich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u73	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! It's symbolic that we are now considering the Operational Search Act on this day when mass protests are taking place by people who are certainly entitled to such a protest. The consideration of this law is either a moment of truth or Ukraine will continue to develop as a democratic state, or we will continue to jump into a dictatorship and a police state. As long as the people are intimidated by the Shatuns and other scarecrows, there is a slugging usurpation of power through the adoption of such laws. What is being suggested. The investigator’s function is substantially expanded. From now on, we don't need a judge's decision to conduct a search party. This, according to the draft law, is done in order to prevent crime before it is committed, as well as to prevent future crimes. In practice, that means that any citizen can be searched if the internal affairs authorities have information that a crime is being planned in this apartment or in this office. Moreover, the law provides for inexplicable access to publicly available places, housing, or other property, listening, observation by means of technical means, and much more. Now your neighbor, who doesn't like your noisy children, or your dogs, or you can become a voluntary informant of such organs, is actually restoring the Soviet system of knockers. The subtlety of this bill is also found in elaborate and vague formulations. I quote: "Operational investigations may be carried out with information on offences which are not criminal, but which contribute to the resolution of crime by the availability of information on facts and circumstances that do not have evidence of criminal offences, but in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, they need to be verified." Look, it's not a draft law on search and search, it's a bill on a new NCAF. Because even the NCS in Kharkiv in 1927, 100 years ago, didn't even dream of that kind of authority. Three years ago in Maidan, people decided that human rights in this country are built on human rights, human rights is the foundation of Ukraine's future. It's the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u74	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u75	The self-help faction will definitely not vote on this bill and call on colleagues to abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Excuse me, colleagues. It was used in the offensive tone of Peter Dustenk's Block, and they have the right to a replica. And I'm giving Melniczuk one minute. And then Victor Pinzenik. Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I urge the previous speaker of the Fatherland faction and the entire Ukrainian people to examine what has been said. You, Your Honor, do not look for abracadabra in your calculations, for you never know how to count and turn to history. I'll tell you how to count. And we're going to start counting from the time the Fatherland faction didn't support Russia's aggression in relation to Georgia. It was your first hand in Moscow, as you now call it. Moscow's second hand was that you told us that the land should be sold, and now that the Prime Minister is no longer your leader, you're telling us that the land should not be sold. Let us take a look at the estimates of your votes today in the Hall when we literally voted half an hour ago to commemorate the memory of those who died under the Supreme Council. Well, well, my good boy from Fatherland, raise the vote and see how you voted for it as your leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u79	And how your leader voted for it, for those boys, to commemorate their memory of being killed for your safety here. And look, please, as the lady voted for, who was recently fought for by all of Ukraine and returned from Russian captivity, here's the hand of Moscow. And not your vote for the special confiscation, either, "Moscow's hand." I'll put more Moscow hands on your party than you can think of.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u80	The word is given to Victor Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u81	Dear National Deputies! I'm not going to touch that part about the search and search, I don't have any special warnings on that part. But I'm very concerned about the part about pension insurance. What are we talking about? This is the norm of article 24, which provides for one year of service at three years of age. Colleagues, today the corresponding category can come out in 23 years of service. So 8 years, under 30 years, you can retire. Well, let's encourage people where they need a salary, they have to pay higher on other terms, let's pay, not move it with pensions. I talked to colleagues who are the authors of the bill, they supported this proposal, and I thank them. I propose that this be removed in the first reading mode of the corresponding rule of article 24 and that the law be passed without this norm in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear friends, there are many who desire. I'll give it to you, ladies, Mr. Andrew, I'll give you my final word with your permission. Now there's a lot of speakers, and I think the law is important, and we're going to put the word "palamarchuk," and then "Levchenko," and then we're going to finish. Yeah? No, there's still Barna. And that concludes the discussion. Please, Palamarczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u83	I give the word to Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u84	Ah, Chumaku, you're together. Please, Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u85	Dear colleagues! Operational search activities are an integral part of the activities of any law enforcement agency and of the special service. I want to tell you that for today there is the Law on Operational Search Activities, which is working, which provides for virtually all of the measures that our colleague from Self-Help has been talking about. But what is the advantage of this law that the committee is now offering. It's more systematic. What's more, I don't agree with Mr. Winnick here, but here in this law are more detailed those measures that can be carried out by separate search and search units of special organs. And this is the perfectly justified position of legislators in this law. As I see here, there are some flaws that need to be cleaned up, and above all, there is a flaw that is given the same powers of operational search. Let me finish 20 seconds. Tax police and, at the same time, limited operational capabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u87	narrowed possibilities for DBD. So I think it's a very important law, it's systemic. It would be good if we considered it as a complete procedure, so we could discuss it. But I suggest you take it in the first reading and work on it further, and it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, Levchenko Yuri, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u89	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, the explanatory note of the law states that a bill has been drafted to bring ODA into line with European standards, synchronization of operational and procedural activities. And in fact, the bill has been developed very one-sidedly, solely in the interest of those who are directly involved in the search. You know, given the many shortcomings in the law and the fact that a part of the situation duplicates the position of the Criminal Procedure Code, and the other part directly contradicts them, I think, is a return to a period of procedural abuse away from European standards and can lead to the legalization of human rights. You know, very often we have. Then we go back to law-making because of mistakes. I'd just like to take a few moments in this bill with regard to these evaluation concepts that are being inserted here, which are totally out of legal certainty. Mr. Chairman, please give me 20 seconds, please. For example, it is written that access to housing is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u90	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u91	It is written that access to housing and other facilities, material objects, can be made directly by persons who are persons of search and rescue or by persons who are focused on the task. What kind of persons are assigned? I mean, it's legalization of aunts again. Then it is written that such access will be made available to other media. What are the other media, as prescribed? There's no such thing as an understanding. Then, for example, this notion of "there is no other way to achieve these goals."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u92	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, you are. Everyone has heard your opinion, and everyone understands your position. Dear colleagues, two more speeches and we move on to the decision-making process. That's why I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Barna, one minute. And Barezuk, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Turn on the microphone first, Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u93	The fundamental changes in society require synchronization of processive and operational activities. In addition to the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Code, the criminal justice procedure has, to some extent, undergone considerable conceptual changes. And for the development and effective introduction into the practice of activities, the practical activities of the Criminal Procedure Code have been introduced by a number of notable normative acts. But let's be honest and notice that their effectiveness was not enough. Appropriately, these gaps and inconsistencies in legislation have resulted in a considerable increase in the operational situation in the state, especially the improper activities of the police and the increase in crime and crime. So the issue of the adoption of this legislation is primarily a moral principle with regard to the proper provision of operational and search activities. And first of all, it needs to be operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u95	In order to return to operational units the right to apply their capabilities to make their work more effective. And I'm asking my colleagues from Self-Help. I want to point out that the official corruption you're talking about cannot be overcome by liberal means or methods that are inactive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u96	Thank you. Final address, Oleg Berezuk, please, one minute. And then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, the country, the people, need law enforcement agencies to protect them from criminals. And they will punish criminals. This bill allows persecution of those who do not even know that they are being persecuted and that they are under investigation. What's more, they may not even know it at this point, and then they'll know it in a few decades. It's a bill that the lawkeepers themselves call the "Devil Bill." We cannot accept such bills today. More than that, when such a law is to be passed for counterintelligence, it is right. And in the counter-intelligence of this, there's no one who's really going to persecute and normal people, including. The law is oppressive and has a genetic despotic nature. We do not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u98	Thank you. And the closing words of Andrew Kožemiakin. And let's move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u99	I understand that there is already a second insult from some of the authors of this bill. Colleagues, members of the committee, if you'll excuse me for standing first, signing, and you're still there. So to those who don't know and have never done a search and rescue thing at all, I'm going to let you in on one secret. Here's Naboo and NAZK working today just like you said, it'll work like you said. So you won't even know that you're being tested, they're going to adopt the law, they're going to listen to it, because they have a lot of authority. This bill just improves everything and makes it clear that we, MPs, in the third chapter, where we have, parliamentary control, intelligence control, any control we have. Because operational intelligence, intelligence, KC heads, police and everyone else, if you don't know, I'll tell you, it's the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready to make decisions, colleagues. Yes, the chairman of the committee will now announce the amendment that Pinzenik was talking about, and we will vote only on the basis of the simplest, and taking this amendment into account. Please, 30 seconds, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u101	I want to say that not only in the chapter on retirement and what you said, Mr. Victor, is really going to be, we're going to review the second reading necessarily. And also what Mr. Yuri said about chapter three, where there are really questions that need to be reviewed today, and I think that should be done. And the other thing is, please suggest we change it, it's a matrix, it's a pattern of a European pattern, and we're ready to discuss it today. Thank you. But I wouldn't recommend insulting a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on Search and Operation (No. 4778) with a bill issued by the head of the committee, Andrew Cosemyakin, on the basis of the committee's proposal, on the basis only of the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4778 – on operational and search activities, on the basis. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:40:20]] For 171 Colleagues, will we support the proposal to the committee for further work? Shall we support this one? Colleagues, I'm putting a second proposal on the committee to redraft the bill. A vote is under way, and the discussion is over. Draft Law 4778, to the committee for further work, colleagues. Let's support this proposal so that we don't lose the bill. Can I have your back, please? [[17:41:05]] For 199 Colleagues, I suggest, the last form we have is to return the subject of the legislative initiative to work. Let's focus so that we don't lose the bill, we support this proposal. Colleagues, the discussion was concluded. There's a vote coming. When I vote, I can't give my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting the final bid on the vote: to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please support, please vote. [[17:41:56]] For 221 Colleagues, I'm going to make this offer again. I think she might be able to get the amount she needs. I'm asking you to focus. I'm asking you to focus. This proposal is close to making a decision. Please come into the hall. And I'm proposing once again: to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft Operational Search Act. Please vote. Please. [[17:42:37]] For 222 No voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'll put it back together. If this proposal fails, the bill will be rejected. I offer to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:43:20]] For 223 The decision is not made. The draft Law 4778 has been rejected. Please, 30 seconds of Chumak, and we're moving on to the next draft of Law 4604. Please, 30 seconds Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I want to address all those who have not voted in favour of this bill. Today, there is a valid Act on Operational Search Activities, please take this law, this bill of the Law, compare and make a comparison, and then you'll make the right decision. Today, it is a mistake, so if you will excuse me, you must adopt a new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u104	My colleagues, I want to tell you about the logic of our next actions. Now we have draft Law 4604, then 2016, these are the laws that don't cause any discussion, and I ask that we just be able to talk to them quickly enough, and we have already come up with a decision by the Committee under the Order "To refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the governments of the member states of the European Union" on the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. There is already a committee decision and it is handed down. It would be good if we accepted him today, too, colleagues. I'm asking you, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, I'm just asking you to stay put. I think these bills, which are non-conflict, which are all supported, we can go through effectively and quickly, just asking for a large concentration in the hall. And I'm moving on to the next draft of the Law (No. 4604) amending the Code of Administrative Offences (No. 4604). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please, colleagues. [[17:45:25]] For 186 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovitch. But that's what we're doing here. We're continuing the block of law enforcement, colleagues. Mr. Igor, please. It's as thin as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u105	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the bill is designed to amend the Code of Administrative Offences by excluding article 196 of the Code of Criminal Training and, therefore, to amend articles 218 and 255, which define the subject matter of administrative misconduct and the officials of the authorities empowered to file protocols for such offences. It should also be noted that the rule of article 196 has not only lost its relevance, but also contravenes existing standards, the requirements of the article of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship, which states that no restrictions are imposed on the exercise of entrepreneurial activities in the field of physical culture and sports. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional costs from the State budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u106	Thank you. I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u107	Colleagues, I'm short. In fact, we are correcting old sins, as they say, Article 196 of a violation that sounds like: "The violation of the rules of karate teaching." Well, someone used to do and remember. That's why all those who once had a bearing on this, who are trained by children, by relatives, by brothers, by sisters, and by themselves as vice president of the Federation of Handicrafts, I urge you to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u108	Colleagues — Are They Desirable to Discuss? It's a technical tool. None. Technical error, tell me, which one? Please, Levchenko, tell us what is the technical error in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u109	In order not to have to redevelop the light bills that we accept, I note under the transcript that the bill proposes in paragraph 2, paragraph 1, part of the first article, 255 digits 196 to replace 195. It is not taken into account that, in accordance with the current wording of paragraph 2, paragraph 1 of Part One of Article 255 KUPAP, authorized by the officials of the internal affairs authorities, have the right to draw up reports on administrative offences provided for in Articles 189 to 196. So 196 should be replaced by 195-6, not 195, as proposed in the project. And I don't know if the authors understand from the voice what I just said, but I'm underlining that there's a technical error that's been prescribed. You are now, if you accept this option, you will, again then we will correct. So either we send it to the second reading, or now correct this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm, we're going to point out with technical law, and that's enough for the committee to be able to make technical amendments. That's why I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (for the removal of responsibility for violation of the rules of karate) (No.4604) on the basis and generally on the technical and legal rights that the committee will be able to make on the proposals of Yuri Lewchenk, who have been heard in such an editorial. I would like to vote in favour of the committee's proposal as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:49:18]] For 240 Decision taken. The next draft law is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No.2016). This is also a block of law enforcement. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. Please vote on the simplified procedure. [[17:49:53]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u111	Respectful colleagues, a study of the United Nations, have shown that sexual violence against children committed by children who are known and associated with them is particularly one of the most destructive forms of long - term sexual violence in the psychological world. The kids are growing up, they're growing up. they have very serious mental problems, health problems. That's why in 2012. In 2007, all the countries of the Council of Europe formed it as the Lansarotic Convention and signed it. Ukraine joined and ratified this Lansarotic convention in 2012. This is the first international agreement to address the issue of sexual violence against children at home, within or outside the family. The ratification states agree to criminally prosecute sexual activity with children younger than the age of sexual consent, but depending on the context in which such behavior takes place. As I went to the report, I asked my assistant to increase the information provided on this subject. Thus, the changes that I propose in the changes to the Criminal Code apply to this. "He raped and killed a two-year-old boy under Kiev's stepfather." "A drunk recidivist raped an eight-year-old girl in the presence of her mother," "a gang of pedophiles hid from children behind bars for 15 years." I think these headlines speak very seriously and eloquently for themselves. What changes I propose to the Criminal Code. First. These changes in the Criminal Code establish a clear minimum age for sexual adulthood, improve the responsibility of those who violate sexual freedom and integrity, honor, and dignity of children. The other one. Article 153 of the Criminal Code removes the inadequacy of unwarrantedly soft sanctions for violent gratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u112	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u113	For the violent pleasure of sexual passion, it is by unnatural means committed against a minor or a minor. Article 155 of the Criminal Code establishes a special subject of "teen years of age", since the idea of this standard is to protect a child from the influence of an adult who, by virtue of his or her age, is fully aware of the socially dangerous nature of such behaviour with regard to a child. Dear colleagues, our children need protection not only materially, not only morally, but primarily from sexual violence at home and outside the family. Please support the prescribed bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u114	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this Bill No. 2016 amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Exploitation. About the purpose of the bill, Mrs. Irina had just made a clear statement and said so. I only want to add that the bill proposes to amend articles 153, 155, 156 and 302 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, criminalizing sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16 who has been committed by an adult, thus establishing a clear minimum year. It is extended to subjects who may have sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity. There is increased responsibility for crimes involving the creation or maintenance of places of discord and prostitution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President-in-Office of Ukraine, from the rights of the child, Mr. Kuleb, wrote to the Head of the Supreme Council about the need to consider the bill. The committee, after examining and discussing the bill, believes that the Supreme Council should support it in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is indeed one of our laws of adaptation to European legislation that has general support. Are we willing to discuss whether we can be on a base, just on a basis? We can, right? Then, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Colleagues, just on a basis, please vote, please support, please vote. [[17:55:30.]] For 251 The law is passed, and the law is passed. I want the committee to work on the next, for the second reading. Dear colleagues, we now have two bills, 4032 and 4548, which are very important for us to consider today, and that is what the committee insists on. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. And these are two bills that are adjacent. Yes, Mr. Andrew? The next two bills. Please. I propose that we consider them in a simplified procedure, and that they be reported and discussed together, because these are circumstantial bills. Such an offer is supported, fellow workers. So, colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure of draft laws 4032 and 4548. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[17:56:46]] For-189 And I invite you first to the report of the national deputy, Berezu Borislav Yuhimovich. Please. Then Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, and then head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u117	The present conditions for detained persons in the detention facilities are not appropriate. This is, indeed, yes, and it needs to be corrected. But correction is needed in the right way, not in the way we try. Because no one cures the dead by cutting off their noses. Such maintenance conditions now demean the dignity of those who have not yet been found guilty of crimes. Individuals may spend years in detention centres without being convicted of an inadmissible sentence, given the constitutionally established presumption of innocence. The introduction into the legislation of an increase in the retention rate in custody in detention investigators is based on the need to ensure social justice, the practical implementation of the principle of presumption of innocence and the cessation of the negative practice of prolonged detention in investigators during the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct. But the introduction of this bill is actually due to the realization that the fact that Law 838 was adopted was a gross mistake and led to obvious negative consequences that are now becoming increasingly publicized in the media and leading to a corresponding social resonance. In particular, the adoption of the above - mentioned law in effect gave rise to a de facto reduction in the period of deprivation of liberty for a term during which the guilty person is in danger of being punished by persons who commit serious and particularly serious violent and other, most dangerous crimes. So we really made the mistake that I'm asking you to make right now. I understand that those who have now come out on a particularly serious and medium-sized scale of crime will no longer return to prison, but, Your Honor, I ask you to pay attention. I see you all don't care. I see you're walking around the hall, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u118	Thirty seconds, please complete the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u119	I want to talk to you. Each of us is a Ukrainian citizen, each of us is walking the streets of Ukraine, and none of you may be a deputy tomorrow. We must correct the mistake we have made. So let's now support this bill and make it so that people who.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u120	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, please, and then the head of the committee, Andrew Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u121	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, there has been a situation today that, after counting the day two after the previous imprisonment, more than 8,000 people have been released who are to be punished, 785 of them officially, committed a new crime. Yes, they committed 22 murders, 18 serious bodily injuries, 10 rapes, 405 thefts, 66 robberies. I mean, not everyone's been caught today. Here's a last example: from Umani, a recidivist who was punished and released recently killed a four-year-old child because of a robbery. And really, we've made a big, they say, mistake. And no one would object to the fact that this law, well maybe at the time, was relevant when we accepted it, but now we must remove sin from the soul, as they say. So this is a very simple law that I'm proposing is 4548. It refers to the fact that those who commit crimes, not serious and especially serious, but moderate and light, are left with a day or two; those who rape, murderers, robbers, other people who commit serious crimes are to take place day after day. And that's normal. So I would very much like to support everyone. It doesn't matter what my law is, or whether it's Mr. Bereza, but the situation needs to be rectified immediately so that the new recidivists don't go free and settle in Ukraine like, you know, some kind of zone or "cold summer 53 years" like in the movie. So I ask all my colleagues, regardless of their political affiliation, to uphold this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u122	Thank you. The chairman of the committee, Mr. Andriy Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, today there are two bills that have been considered by the Committee on Legislative Protection, which are proposed to amend part five of article 72 of the Criminal Code. You've just been introduced by the drafters. The first is you and me, the first to make changes to the Criminal Code in order to improve the court's terms of prior imprisonment, number 4032, and the second to 4548. The bill proposes that part five of article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be supplemented by paragraph seven, stating that this article provides that the right to pretrial imprisonment is not extended to persons convicted of serious or particularly serious crimes, or suspected of committing such crimes. The bill proposes to amend the current edition of part five of article 72, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 26, 15 under the so - called law, if you remember, Hope Savchenko. I was also the author of this bill with a group of comrades, and we still believe that this bill was correct, timely and necessary for the time when it was adopted. According to committee members, the majority of committee members today have a different operational situation, so some changes need to be made. The committee therefore supported both bills for the court’s consideration by a majority of votes. Please, the project, the committee invites you to define yourself as either the first or the second. There are no more bills on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to record two for two for one, two for the other, please. By "self-help" Babak Alona Valeriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u125	Please give Yegor Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u127	Self-help, of course, for bandits to be in jail, but very often bandits are in pursuit. And here in trying to fix one problem, it's important not to create another. My colleagues and I developed a draft law that allows me to count the day in two, but after six months. If he has not been charged for six months, a court hearing has not begun, then there may be major problems with the investigation and perhaps with the charge itself. You know, not one person of two, three, four years is in the WHO. We can't let that happen, so we're calling for this bill to be redrafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u128	Thank you. From the "Block of Peter Poroshenko" of Macedonia Yuri Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. We filed an alternative, but there's nothing on the committee yet. Because I believe that the release and granting of will to criminals who systematically commit serious and particularly serious crimes is a threat to all our citizens, so please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u130	Thank you. Please, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u131	Please give the floor to the national MP, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction has repeatedly claimed that the so-called "Savchenko Law" needs to be corrected because so many bandits have been released and some of them have committed crimes again. That is why we will support the amendment of the bill. But I would like to remind everyone that, if neither bill nor bill is passed today, there is a bill developed by the Cabinet of Ministers that will include all the best novels of these two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u134	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u135	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction voted in favour of the so-called Savchenko Act, after which the term of imprisonment is two days. I want to admit to all citizens, to vote our faction for this law -- it was a mistake. Unfortunately, we have made many mistakes in this Parliament. I want to apologize to the parents of the girls who have been raped by the perpetrators of this law. I want to apologize to the parents of the children who were killed by those who came out under this law. It's a big mistake. On the one hand, there are a lot of people sitting illegally and we have to solve this problem, but we cannot release murderers, rapists, rapists. Over thirty people were killed by criminals who had been released for the first time. And if we hadn't voted that law, they would have been in prison and more than thirty Ukrainians would have been alive. Twelve Ukrainian girls were raped by criminals who had been released for the first time. We need to correct this mistake today: murderers, rapists should be in prison, not rape Ukrainians and kill Ukrainians. In today's conditions, without the rule of law system, it's our fault to release criminals in the first place. We have it fixed right now: murderers and rapists should be in prison, not on the loose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u136	Thank you. And from Fatherland, the word is Hope Savechenko and the replica, and they called it Savechenko. Please turn on Hope Savechenko for two minutes. Let's move on to the decision-making room, please. Please, Mrs. Hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u137	The fact that national MPs recognize themselves as rams is our problem. The law, when voted, had to be worked out, not lynched, and then thrown all the dogs at it. There are 69,000 in prison, 6992 in the Savachenko Law, as you say. He said 187. The relapse is always, it's 10 percent if anyone doesn't come out. They wouldn't be out now, they'd be out later. Article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the law cannot be adopted for the deterioration of human rights. Now with these two laws, you're making human rights worse. This law can be used by prisoners, in fact, if they delay time. But to do this, it was necessary not to lynch, to start changing the Criminal Code, the KPC, and to make a normal judicial reform. You can take six months to investigate. This law was, first of all, to ensure that the investigation was not carried out forever and that it was not committed by the Mentov State itself. To repeat, you say, I'll explain. The story is those people who are the easiest people to do, if they've done one time, simply take out all the dogs, so they don't look for a responsible, really, criminal, the easiest thing in the area to find the guy who did, for example, I don't know, for some mugging easy and throw him a murder, rape, and everything else, to break his hands, and he'll go like a relapse. You don't defend yourself, or you don't understand what's right. You politically speculate and prove to people once again that you are rams, just one ram, the cooler horns and the other. Actually, they're all rams. I'm sorry that I haven't been able to work this law out in prison, and I don't have any legal education, which is probably in most of these people in this room, in order to bring something good to an end, not break it and not beat it out just because you're lazy and you're set up by that system. Welcome back. Once again, the people realized that you were going to the bottom.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm just explaining, colleagues, general logic. There hasn't been a performance since Peter Dustenk's Block, has there? Please, one minute, Peter Dust Block, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u139	I'm reporting to the goats that came through the global community in this Parliament. More than 60,000 amnesty and released rabbits from Russia are now being fought and killed by our soldiers. These recidivists, who were released for error and the euphoric vote for the man who was advocated by the whole world, are now returning and raping our children, killing our boys, robbing jewelry stores. So it's for the goats. You mobilized the hall, I urge everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I'll explain to you the rules. So these bills are on one topic, but they're not alternatives, because they've been filed for more than two weeks. And I want to remind you, we have a bill on the same subject that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was worked out by the Cabinet of Ministers. But he can't be considered until there's a solution to those two bills. If we support one of them, it's going to be the basis for a piece of work. If we don't support it, we'll open the way for a government bill that's already registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm going to put them to the vote, and the room is going to be defined. And the hall will be defined. I, two minutes left, colleagues, put to the vote the draft Act amending the Criminal Code 4032, 4032 as a basis. Who supports 4032 as a basis, please vote. Please vote. [[18:13:45]] For 155 No voices. Maybe it'll be the other one. The bill is rejected. Next draft of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (4548). Janko Anton Volodymyrovich author. It's also suggested as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[18:14:19]] For-143 It's not a decision, colleagues. The bill is rejected. And so we're opening the way for a government bill that's submitted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm obliged to propose more quickly to put the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a government bill, into order. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is us. Tomorrow morning, we are addressing the EU. I have the right to continue the session for only 15 minutes. In 10 seconds, this time is running out. Thank you for the active, fruitful and important day that we have demonstrated today, despite all efforts to destabilize Parliament. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone in the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
