ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your respectable colleagues to take their seats. Yesterday after the Conciliation Council, we agreed with you on a plan of action for this plenary week. Obviously one of the main issues of the agenda is finding a solution to the political crisis. I want to emphasize that there is a blueprint for a way out of this crisis. At 12 o’clock today, there will be a meeting of faction leaders who can potentially form a coalition. I think we're going to have to talk to all the factions that formed the European Ukraine coalition. We may be able to expand the coalition of three factions, as stated yesterday, to four or five. In fact, the work option is to create a new coalition of three factions. And I hope that this week we can all agree and move on. Well, the next question is, Your Honor. At 10:30 today, we will consider the resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine. So I would ask all the national MPs to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and decide on this issue. We also have defense issues. We have a question about the formation of working bodies in the State Bureau of Investigation, the National Asset Management Agency. There's a question of supporting small farms, which is very important, and we're going to be looking at it on Thursday. It's a question of a financial and economic plan. As well as resolving the problems of miners. In fact, last week in the framework and walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, together with the government, we have found solutions and we can vote on them. So please, your honors, we take our seats, we prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:03:23]] 327 deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In accordance with the U.S. Supreme Council regulations, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday to speak from faction leaders. from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please prepare to register. And I want to make an appropriate announcement, your honorary colleagues. In connection with the decision taken on 25 March 2016 in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Central Electoral Commission No. 91 of 28 March 2016, I report that Ukraine's national deputies, Tomenka Mikoli Volodymyrovich and Firsova Jegor Pavlovich, who were elected to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency district by the Party of "Block of Petr Poshenko", have come out of the deputy faction of "Block of Peter Prashenko". Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration, statements by factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please register. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, the Central Election Commission ordered the power of two national deputies, Mikola Tomenka and Yegor Firsov, on the basis of the decision of the assembly of the distinguished political force "Block of Petra Prashenka", which took place in secret on Saturday, and on Monday, the CTC has already taken a decision and taken mandates. I want to remind you, on September 18, last year, the Radical Party's assembly decided to suspend the mandate of Vitka's carcass, which has been bought out of our faction, and is now in the BP sector. Since September last year, the CBC has denied us the decision to have a "cartoon" that our esteemed colleagues at the BP have bought with a few, and he's sitting there now to deprive him of his mandate. Here are the double standards. I want to give you another fact. From August of last year, when our colleague, the Kingdom of Heaven, Igor Jeremeyev, CLK, still did not appoint elections in Volina in the district where Igor Jeremeyev was proudly representing it. These are the three standards that the CBC is demonstrating. Why is the CEC demonstrating these standards? Because it's illegal, because the term of approval of the CTC coincided in 2014, and they're still sitting, and the 9th year they're illegally exercising their powers. I have asked the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine to acknowledge the illegal inaction of the President, who, in accordance with the Constitution, would bring here, to the House of Parliament, the change, the release of members of the CLTC and the appointment of new ones. To this day, despite the fact that there is a court decision for six months, President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko does not fulfil his constitutional obligations and does not apply for the release of members of the CTC. Why? I'll tell you why. Because the CEC is carrying out illegal teams of the President's Administration, it is depriving them of illegal mandates, and those bought by the authorities are continuing to remain in office. I'll give you another example, this is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, whose six judges, Janukovic, were usurped, helped usurp power by cancelling the Constitution in 2010. To this day these judges are sitting in the Constitutional Court and are already carrying out the commands of today’s authorities. Yesterday, during a meeting with President Prashenko, the factions' leaders will confirm this, and I strongly demanded that the President: to immediately submit an application for the release of members of the CTC and the appointment of new members, and to release the selling judges of the Constitutional Court who raped the Constitution. Regrettably, the President has again overlooked these appeals. I believe that all that is going on in Ukraine today is the road to usurping the power of those who are now in power thanks to Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u3	Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to start with a short presentation published on the CIA website. In 2015, Ukraine became the leader of 225 countries with 49 percent inflation. This assessment is the summation of the government's work and the coalition that formed it, proof that the policies that are being implemented have nothing to do with the real life of Ukrainians. The ruling coalition has led the country to bankruptcy, and this has been felt by every citizen of Ukraine in his own pocket. Almost 100 years ago, there was a phrase that didn't lose its relevance today: "too narrow their circle, they're too far away from the people." For the second month, government portfolios are being traded. The coalition is trying to save itself by changing the Prime Minister and depriving himself of responsibility. In this situation, we consider it fair for the government to resign and for the Supreme Council to vote. While Parliament is still in place, we propose that at least one week work for people and implement the following ten points: adopt budget changes and index social benefits; abolish pensions, amend the Tax Code to support farmers; stop mine closures and give miners work; review excessive energy and utility tariffs; set the main priority of the Ukrainian economy: increase jobs, pay; consider and adopt a package of laws necessary for the implementation of the Minsk Treaties; and consider the programme for the socio-economic recovery of Donbas. And the last. The May 2 investigation of the tragedy in Odessa did not move away. We met relatives of those who had died in the House of Trades. They lost hope of a fair investigation into the death of their relatives. We will not ignore this crime, involve international organizations, and follow the course of the investigation. We urge the authorities in the shortest possible time to complete the investigation of this terrible tragedy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please give me some advice. We now have statements from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. A person I announced in accordance with the convention and the decision of the CEC lost his mandate as a member of parliament. How am I supposed to act in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u6	Vladimir Borisovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, there's a statement for a recess. Then I have, I have the right, yes, to replace the break for a three-minute performance. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u8	Colleagues, Ukrainian people! What really happened? If you think you've offended a few people's deputies and deprived them of their mandates, you're deeply mistaken. In fact, corrupt people are trying to bring parliament back to banal political slavery. Corruptionrs must have a pocket parliament and pocket-trained deputies in order to continue looting. The decision to convene the WFP, where a few, half a hundred delegates are closing and hiding from the press, are making decisions that are absolutely absurd. Just like the decision of the members of the Central Electoral Commission whose powers expired in 2014. I struggled uncompromisingly with all the horsemen, the marshes and the branches, and it is all the more political revenge for me. I am sure that today, a derogation from the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism is a departure from European integration policy, for European law is long gone, and it is being tried for parliamentarians. This story has shown yet another profound political problem: there are no real political parties in our political system, a dozen political gangs have been set up instead, the sole aim of which is to have the power to rob the country, to obtain preferences for court businessmen and to control law enforcement and financial flows. I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament will still have real political parties that represent the interests of the people. This will certainly never become European without it, and our citizens have long realized that the current regime is leading the country in the opposite direction from Europe. Therefore, the fight for Ukraine is just beginning. We'll be back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u9	Continue, colleagues, our work. Please allow me to say the People's Front. Maxim Burbak? Maxim Burbak, People's Front? Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u10	Good afternoon! Dear compatriots, the famous factions of the People's Front, I am authorized to state the following. What did we come out of today's plenary week? Of course, it was right now from this rostrum to talk about work in the districts, about what people expect us to do, what they want, what they rightly criticize us about. We could talk about the agenda of the Supreme Council, the bills aimed at keeping the Ukrainian soldier fat, dressed, armed and trained, discussing economic reforms, raising social standards. But instead, we have to talk about how we can overcome the artificial political crisis created by the initiative of certain political forces. This process, which kills the country’s time and capabilities, was imposed on Ukrainian society and our faction. Nevertheless, we realize that without solving the situation, the country is stricken with its arms and legs. We welcome our colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, who have finally heard the People's Front calls -- and have announced the name of their candidate for prime minister. But announcing a candidate to run for office is just a first step. So the second task that we're facing is to form a strong, effective coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not a situational union, whose short life in two or three months will once again undermine the work of parliament and government, but a responsible union of democratic forces. That's why the People's Front faction decided yesterday to initiate a meeting with the President, the Prime Minister, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the factions of democratic forces who are ready to join this new coalition. This should be a frank conversation, a lack of politics, and temporary convenience. Third. The new coalition must rely on an effective coalition agreement, and we are ready to work on its formation. Four. Finally, a full program of government action should be presented for the following year. Fifth. Ukraine needs to see a new cabinet of ministers. In order to maintain stability in the nation, the People's Front is ready to place its signatures under these documents and support that candidate for the post of Prime Minister proposed by the newly created coalition. In turn, we expect Peter Poshenko's Block to give signatures to members of its faction and to secure the promised signatures of the deputies at least one more faction to form a coalition in a constitutional way. We have repeatedly stated that we are ready to deal with a crisis, and we have repeatedly offered solutions. But I repeat, the new Cabinet of Ministers must have constant support for the parliamentary coalition to implement its plan of action. The first step should then be to form a democratic coalition capable of implementing the Coalition Agreement and supporting the new government's agenda of action. During our meeting with the President yesterday, we understood the need to hold future coalition meetings. And today, after voting for the President's resignation of the Henprocuror, which our faction will support unanimously, we suggest, Vladimir Borisovich, that we convene such an arrangement for 12 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u12	By the way, we welcome the decision of the Fatherland faction to return and implement the International Monetary Fund programme. We believe that this is a demonstration of support for today's government's agenda and support for the next government in the reforms agreed upon by the International Monetary Fund and international financial institutions. So let's finally turn this crisis page around, draw conclusions, and finally start working for our Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u13	The Rebirth Party, he was walking, a national MP. It's the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u14	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. As a major MP, I often go to my districts, and I don't hear problems and people's problems. But one of the most important to date is housing and utility fees. We, as senior MPs, when we move here to Parliament, especially those MPs who came from the village heads, from the villagers, I came here as a village head, and it was easy for me: in the village I made the road, in the village I built the school, and people vote for you. But when he came here, it turns out there's nothing we can do here, not solve any problems. I am speaking today from the MP's Rebirth Party, and I would like to support our 4218 ruling, which will really improve and reduce community services on the ground, because today people are on the verge of survival. That is, the decree states that the Rebirth Party proposes to introduce a moratorium on price increases by 2018, to carry out audits of all housing and utility prices and, if possible, to reduce them. Finally, introduce an energy efficiency programme in the JCC to make this energy efficiency really effective. And we all know that when we buy electricity, we're not going to solve this problem, it's not a program. Today, on the ground in villages, often in cities, we know where the equipment of still Soviet times is, which no one at that time spoke of any savings. But I think to this day, if it's all over and trust people on the ground in villages, in villages, in cities, to give them trust in local councils that we all advertise and say we have to give authority on the ground. So let's give them a hand, let's help them! And believe me, it won't make you wait. Once again, I ask the MP of the Rebirth Party to support our decree 4218. And you know, I don't think it'll make you wait, change in that. And for people, there will be at least confidence in tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, dear Lord, the Ukrainian people! As we analyze the day’s routine, we feel that our country is doing well. But we have to work on this sessional week. Isn't it the only team we need to create that will bring this country out of the abyss? Should we not work to create this team? National Unity Teams for Ukraine's future, that's what I'd call it. "When we see Washington with a new and righteous law," Taras Shevchenko asked. We're used to believing in vervains, messiahs, that someone will come to us and do all the work for us, for us Ukrainians. We have to tell the truth to our faces, and for the past year and a half, the government has shown us to be wrong. The Scriptures contain wise words that are very relevant to our situation today. "There is no prophet without honor, except in his own country and in his own house." We do not appreciate what we have in our own country, and we always look better in overseas lands. No foreigner will be as loyal to Ukraine as the Ukrainian himself. Today we hear a lot about negotiations, the creation of a new coalition, and the composition of a new government. From this rostrum, I want to warn the coalition against a strategic mistake that we've made once before. Don't take the positions of ministers — Western adjectives, which they don't have. The "will of the people" MPs are strongly opposed to joining the new composition of the government as ministers of any foreigner. They can help as counselors, even ministerial ministers. But there must be Ukrainians in positions where key decisions are made. The whole world is fighting for consumer markets, raw materials, resources. Who can assure me that the foreigners invited to the Ukrainian government will defend the interests of the Ukrainian producer, not of the foreign state, not of their own? Georgia was built, not by Yushchenko, but by Georgian Saakashvili. The shock therapy for reforms in Poland was conducted not by the Ukrainian Masol, but by the Polish Balcerovich. The investment in Slovakia was brought by the Slovak of Dzurind. This list of well - known and successful reformers can continue for a long time. And they are all united together. Qualitative reforms in countries are being carried out by the outs and outs of these countries. The Ukrainian dream is not designed by Americans, Georgians, Slovaks, Latvians, or others. We have to build our own country. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! The political crisis is so obvious that today the whole country next to television is sitting with popcorn and watching, yet there is a conscience in politicians, and what will this whole era end? And I can tell you that all the culinary negotiations that are being held today are closing in on the fact that the two biggest factions -- the People's Front and the Peter Prashenka Block -- are being switched places in the Presidium. "Peter Prashenko's Block" from the Presidium of the Supreme Council will go to the presidency of the government. And the People's Front from the presidency of the government will come to the presidency of the Supreme Council. That's actually what this replacement is going to look like. The old ridiculous anecdote is mentioned when a concentration camp said there would be a change in underwear today, and the first barracks would change undergarments with the second. That's about what the coalition's reformatting looks like today. And so the key theme is, if we want to keep this House, and it almost sounds like Parliament has to keep it, even though I don't share that opinion, if it's rotten, it's better to change it. Well, if anyone thinks that we should keep Parliament, then we all need to create 10-15 ultimatum requirements for any new coalition formation that affects people's lives. First and key. We need to note that all of the country's business associations have gathered together for the first time in Ukraine's history and have made demands on the government, the demands on Parliament and the President, where they are clearly structured, what needs to be done in the state. And so the first condition is to meet those first ultimative requirements. Second thing to do. We need to immediately take all the steps that raise agriculture, continue the moratorium on land, allow farming to develop, return the tax system to them, and better fix taxes on a hectare of land, support farming, allow people to form an inheritance and budget several billion to support farming. We need to take the third block, that's social issues. Cancel the pension tax and index pensions, wages, because otherwise the economy will never develop, there are no buyers. Next. We need to do everything we can to ensure that our families are not killed or killed by tariffs. And if we see that these conditions are met and that the proposed staffing changes do not declare once again the unity of the oligarchy with politicians, we need to think with you about how to preserve this Parliament only if that makes sense. Our requirements are stated on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u20	in a joint meeting with Peter Prashenko, President, Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, leaders of the factions of the former coalition. And we're going to be standing on these requirements fundamentally. You do something for people as an advance -- then we create something, you do nothing for people -- then everyone goes to the polls. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u21	Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Responsibility is a key principle that can and should be used to cure today's deep political crisis. Today, the presence or absence of this very phenomenon – political responsibility – depends on the fate of a 45 million-dollar country. Battles on the front, peasants, and workers, civil activists, and our foreign allies demand that political chaos, personal and group ambitions, be brought to an end for the fifth week in a row. The "death virus" of internal strife, which once together destroyed Ukrainian statehood, must be overcome this time. Peter Poshenko's Block welcomes the decision of Fatherland to restore the European Ukraine coalition. Peter Poshenko's Block also supports the proposal of our Allies of the People's Front to hold a general coalition meeting at 12 o'clock today to consider the issue of the new Prime Minister and the new government. I think it's a responsible and courageous step of political power. We believe that after the introduction by the President of the corresponding constitutional proposal, the new Prime Minister and the new government have an immediate parliament. The sick country can't wait, and we need to break the back of an oligarchic and party-motivated business, which has taken over state monopolies. We need to give the village a hand immediately. We need to clean up the Auggie stables at the customs office immediately and simplify the tax administration. We need to review the validity of the tariffs immediately. Real social assistance needs to be restored immediately to the poor and refugees of Crimea and the occupied portion of Donbas. And above all, the restoration of the Ukrainian economy needs to begin immediately. Only a wager for its own production can lead a country out of misery and poverty. I'm sure today is the crucial moment that will accentuate who loves Ukraine, who loves Ukraine, who loves Ukraine? I hope that an updated coalition can work for the benefit of our country and our people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u23	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u24	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the noble peoples of Ukraine! From the fire of the revolution and from the fire of war instead of hope comes the ominous image of Sphinx, the Sphinx of the oligaric state system. This oligarchic state system, it's producing poverty, it's producing poverty, it's producing insecurity, it's producing disease. Because it doesn't serve people, it serves those who use the country's state budget for their own wealth, it's an oligarchic-state machine. That's the plan. Make money on people, profits. That's the plan. Use money to buy seats in the next Parliament and cement this Sphinx in this room, in this country, and this is where all the preparations are being made. Black people, Volin, Curve Rig with elections are pilot projects that are as successful as buying seats in parliament. The poverty produced by these people breeds demand, generates demand for 500 dollars for those who did not intend to go to the polls. It's megatechnology. sociology and approaches to working with people who are not rich. This is a crime in front of mankind, not just in front of Ukraine. So our proposals are very simple. The real, actual oligarchic majority has to take responsibility and lead this government that it operates and this Supreme Council against 15 years of age, and people need to know who is responsible. The other one. In order for the country to have at least a few years of stable development, we have to accept the electoral policy: this is the Act on Proportional Elections with Open Lists. They will need to be prepared both by political organizations and by charismatic personalities. The other one. Today, Hendowski was to receive the second Order for Firsov and the Creature Rig. Because no one who violated a valid law in Ukraine is punished. And the last. I hope that this room today will make the third part: it will release the Attorney General. But you see, it's already a symbol, because it's this Attorney General who violated the Ukrainian legislation that you're adopting in this room and allowed 100 percent of the old personnel to resume their jobs in the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u25	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u26	So this change today is also the face of the sinister Sphinx, which unfortunately is. It comes out of the flames of revolution and war, and out of it is the hope and quality of people living in our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u27	Dear fellow members of the national MPs, let's move on to the debate. The speeches are over, let's move on to the agenda. As I have announced last plenary week, we are now considering a draft decree granting approval to the President of Ukraine, Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich, of the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. In accordance with legislation, this was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The rules of procedure on this subject are as follows. A statement by a representative of the President of Ukraine, up to 3 minutes, a speech by the profile committee, up to 2 minutes, from the factions, two minutes from the factions. And also three performances two minutes away from the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please invite you to report on the decision to grant permission for the release of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Mr. Stepan Ivanovich Kubiwa, representative of the President of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite all your colleagues to the Supreme Council Hall, and we are discussing the issue of the resignation of the Attorney General. A letter was received from the Attorney General to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address the issue without his participation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 106, paragraph 11, and article 122, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine appoints and resigns the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On February 22, 2016, the Head of State introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree authorising President Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich of Ukraine to be released from office of Attorney General of Ukraine (registration No. 4122). Viktor Mikolaiovich personally applied for his release. In view of the above, I ask that you decide on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tabled by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u30	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 16 March this year, discussed the draft Decree (No. 4122) on the granting of approval for the release by President of Ukraine of Shokin Volodymyr Mikolaiovich of the post of Attorney-General of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to authorize the appointment and discharge of the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a proposal to grant approval for the release of Shokin Volodymyr Mikolaiovich from the post of Attorney General. There's a statement of your own, and here's a copy of it, Mr. Shockin, about your release. As a result of the discussion of the project and in view of paragraph 25 of the first part of article 85, part one of article 122 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Decision granting exemption from office by the President of Ukraine, Attorney General Shokin Volodymyr Mikolajovic, as a basis and as a whole. 10 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register with factions and groups for two minutes, from factions and groups. Self-help faction, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u32	On the night of Sunday, a man came out with 408 assault rifles and 90,000 rounds of ammunition to shoot people in Maidan. A man came out who suspected the organization of the murders by means of so-called aunts on those terrible days. This is the symbol, this is the result, this is the finale of Victor Shokin's work as Attorney General. He didn't investigate any murder cases, no terrorism, he didn't investigate any corruption cases, both before and after Eromaydan, in high-level offices. In fact, he was put up for it. This is what he was set up to do: cover up top corruption and cover up the affairs of Eromaydan. The case of the diamond prosecutors, which was an opportunity to change the Attorney General's Office, which was a chance to break a circular message in all the law enforcement agencies, was not simply buried: under the leadership of Shockin today, the last person who fought with the Attorney General's Office, David Saquarelidze, was released. The Self-Help faction, of course, will vote in favour of consenting to the expulsion of Victor Shokin. We voted against his appointment. And today we want every journalist, every citizen, to mention the names of the parliamentarians and the President of Ukraine who made this sabotage possible, which made it possible to cover up corruption and this cover-up for the killings of Maidan for many months.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u33	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u34	As the opposition party, Self-Help is asking not to multiply these mistakes -- and the next Attorney General to choose solely through a competition to be an independent person, not another friend of the President, who will cover up top corruption both to and after Euromaiden.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u35	Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u36	Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, we all understand that, of course, we should be expressing our mistrust to the Attorney General today, but we have a statement of his voluntary resignation, which he himself acknowledges that he is not dealing with this job, asking him to forfeit the job of Attorney General. Of course, we have to support this decision because we see that the prosecutor's office is ineffective. The People's Front faction will unanimously vote in favour of prosecutor Shokin's resignation. But what I want to say is that we can get this circle closed again if we don't conduct the appointment procedure with open-ended transparent competitions. We need an effective prosecutor's office, we need a prosecutor's office to fight corruption, we need a prosecutor's office to protect Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, we see that the mechanism envisaged today by the Constitution is not effective, it's the third Attorney General we're resigning because he's not doing his job. This means that something needs to be changed systematically. An open, transparent competition, people need to understand who is going to this position, people need to understand that this person is a professional, that he is able to carry out his duties effectively, then he will have confidence in the Attorney General, then he will have an effective job as a prosecutor. Only an open competition after the release of Henprocuror Shokin and the release is due to take place immediately, today, right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u37	Mustafa Najem, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is the Attorney-General who let Mr. Clovis get out of the country. This is the Attorney General who didn't submit to the Supreme Council for the removal of Mr. Boyk's mandate, he has this application, he just didn't sign it. This is the Attorney General who didn't dare investigate the diamond prosecutors. This is the same Attorney General who did not dare to investigate Mr. Ahmetov's issue, who was developing a plan for "Creature" against the President and against the country. This is the same Attorney General who did not dare investigate Karpenk’s case against Igor Kolomoysky. And this prosecutor was a disgrace to the prosecution at all. And I hope that the next Attorney General to be appointed by the President will not be the same. Unfortunately, we have already witnessed twice that the General Prosecutor’s Office’s staff transfers were weak. We heard yesterday that this is already a condition for international financial assistance in the country. $1 billion costs this man's position to the country, all of us. We're proposing from the Eurooptimists that this, this submission in the future should be on a competitive basis, in the future, the Attorney-General should be appointed after a public discussion. We propose Mr. Sergey Gorbatuk, who has proved his case, that he is indeed a professional prosecutor who can investigate these cases. But in fact, this morning we already know that Mr. Shockin was the last one to release Mr. Sacrarelidze. Even if there were grounds for persecution, Mr. Shockin had done nothing shamefully for a year. I hope for Saakashvili's team that's a signal to who he's with and what he's against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u39	Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has made a firm decision to vote in favour of Shokin's resignation. But you have to ask a few questions. First of all, where am I, Shockin? I think everyone in this room wants to ask him a lot of questions about his activities. And the resignation in this form, unfortunately, leaves a lot of secrets. Who, in fact, were the people who gave instructions to the Attorney General’s Office to cover the oligarchs, to cover corruption. Unfortunately, when we clean up Shockin, we risk getting into a situation where all the dogs hang on to it. But not one Shockin, if we allow it, has been involved in all these bad things. Let's understand the fact that the name is absolutely obvious to everyone. The Attorney General's name for today is Dustenko. And we have to do everything we can to make sure that this last name changes eventually, so that there are systemic changes in the prosecution's office, not changing the names. Sadly, this is already the third name with which we forgive all sins. That's not fair. Dear colleagues, we've heard a few times that the question is repeated, let's have an open competition. Open the Constitution, read who appoints the prosecutor in what order. If we want to open a transparent competition, let's change the Constitution! If we want our nation to become a real parliamentary republic, the Attorney General must be appointed to Parliament instead of asking and worshiping the President! So once again, let's work. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of Shokin's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u41	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. From the children's home, from the boarding school where I was raised, I have this trait -- I hate people who get laid. I'm looking at the way they're speaking today and they're breaking up against Shockin and looking at the results of the vote. You voted for him and supported him when the Radical Party faction and the Self-Help faction voted against Shockin's appointment. Because it was obvious that Shakin’s assignment was wrong. Because the person who built the corruption system of the prosecutor’s office cannot reform it. I remember running around the hall for almost a year, including those who are now breaking up against Shokin to sign for Shokin’s resignation! After he escaped from Ukraine last June. And to this day, we haven't raised 150 votes to consider this issue and send Shockin back last year. Because you covered it! And today you're getting it! That's how only the weak and the pygmies you are get the lie. And now, essentially. Shockin's assignment was an error. But no less would be a mistake if the President re-elected the successor of Shockin. Various questions are discussed. But it doesn't really change anything. There will be no reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there will be no reform of the courts as long as the Prosecutor is dependent on the President. Every president wants to run the Attorney General, every president wants to run the courts. That is why I, along with other deputies, registered a bill on the election of the Attorney-General for public participation in a transparent competition following the example of the Head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Only the President, independent of political influence, alone the Attorney General, independent of the political influence of the President and the Parliament, will be able to reform. And that's the kind of prosecutor we need. Everything else is a struggle for power and control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u43	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! As I consider the question of Shokin's resignation today, I would like, in addition to the critical remarks that have been made here, nevertheless, to express my thanks to Viktor Mikolaiovich for being the first prosecutor to dare to reform the prosecutor's office. Yeah, he's the one who changed the structure, yeah, he's the one who went to open regional prosecutors' competitions. But his biggest problem and his biggest disaster was the failure of the reform of the local prosecutor’s office. My colleagues, if we're being honest, we have to say that this failure took place because Shockin, who cut the prosecutor's office by 5,000, nevertheless, did not receive salary increases from the budget, and for 2,000 dollars a month the lawyers did not go to the prosecutors. This has become a problem. But it is not only the Attorney General who is responsible for it, but those who have formed the budget and us who have voted for it. Similarly, it is fair to say that dozens of resonating cases went to court in Shockin. And what the most resonant case of the inhuman who gave arms to the aunts was that he was released, not by the prosecutor, but by the court, a court that we, parliamentarians, have not yet reformed. So our faction will vote in favour of Victor Mikolaiovich Shokin's resignation, he wrote a statement, but he just said to my colleague Lazko: "To get the man who wrote the application in an irresponsible manner. It's wrong to take your part of the responsibility." We are all to blame for the fact that the prosecution did not become an institution of justice and legality in the country. And this diagnosis requires us to vote in favour of the resignation of Viktor Mikolaiovich Shokin, who tried but failed to make this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u45	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, three speeches from deputies, or are we going to a vote? Three speeches from the deputies, please. Sign up, three performances of two minutes and we'll vote. Please. Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich, Radical Party. Passes the word Parasuku. Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u46	I thank the Radical faction for taking the floor. What am I trying to say? You know, in this country, every trouble has a name. We go to the Supreme Council website and we see 318 people admit to the situation that is now in the country. When we released Jarem and appointed Shockin, we went to the hall and asked him not to do so because in a year or a half, we would say that we failed. Look what the D.A. turned into. To an organ that deals with political disputes. Was Moses accused? What did they lead to? It's all right, just the applications. They showed some notes that someone was giving money to someone. What did they lead to? Nothing. Who was in charge? And she was giving away Bank. That's why we have to take all the responsibility, those who then pressed the pros button. And now to Yuri Vitaliovich, the great reformer of Ukraine. I remember when he came out and he said, "You'll be all young lawyers tomorrow, working in the DA's office, because we're adopting a law that lets you go to work." You know that didn't happen because they, this one from the post-Radians political elite, only feed you the headlines that they're reforming. Only when you get out of the street is that not at all. So, as you go to the elections, you will understand very well who you are voting for, and then you will live in that country for which you have made your conscious choice. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u47	Sergei Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We understand that today we will resign Shockin, but I understand today that we cannot appoint a new Attorney General. For of today’s performances, it will become clear that the first deputy will be the performers and nothing will actually change. Because this Parliament today is unable to appoint the Attorney General who should be in the country. I can't give instructions or demand or tell the President how to choose the Attorney General to appear on the Supreme Council for our country, but I can advise. First of all, this person should be a professional. Because those things that are not under investigation and are awaiting society, first of all, maydan’s affairs, cannot control and instruct a person who has neither taken any criminal case into his own hands nor investigated it. Second, it's a person who needs to come to this office and clear politics from the Attorney General's Office. And third, it's to clean up the business from the Attorney General's Office. And last of all, it's to plant three friends. Just what and whose friends are the big questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u49	Welcome to Ivanovich Goodenko, Peter Dustenka's Block, please. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u50	I will certainly vote in favour of the prosecutor's resignation, but my suggestion is, it's easier to release the prosecutor or the head of the administration, or another person. My proposal, first to remove the job, then to investigate, and then to decide whether to release this person or to play. Because if a person in a year or in two years just resigns, he will live better than our entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I'd like everyone to take their seats. We're moving to a vote. Please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Proposal for approval of the draft Decree (registration number 4122) on the granting of approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Šokin Viktor Mikolaiovich of the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Ready? Draft Decree (registration number 4122) granting approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Šokin Viktor Mikolaiovich of the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Draft Decision as a whole, please vote. Vote. Please vote everyone. [[11:01:18]] For 289 Actor's been approved. Parliament has agreed to the release of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on. 4069: Draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. The committee project was released on February 16. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this draft Order by a reduced procedure. Please be sure. [[11:02:05]] For 208 The decision has been made with respect to the reduced procedure. I'd like to remind my colleagues that there will be a three faction coalition meeting in this room at 12 o'clock in the morning: the Peter Poroshenko Block, the People's Front and the Fatherland. Please, Your Honor, allow me to welcome you to the words of Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your point is very important for the quality and professional work of the new law enforcement body, the State Bureau of Investigation, which is the question of identifying the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the DBD. Draft decision No 4069. I would like to remind you that parts of the first articles 11 and 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation provide a competitive order for the appointment of the Director of the DBR of its deputies, the Directors of the Territorial Authorities and the Head of the Central Units. The competition is organised and conducted by a commission to conduct a competition for the position of Director of the DBD. These include three persons appointed by the President of Ukraine, three persons appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the subject of which is the organization and activities of the judicial investigation bodies, and three persons designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 January 2016 to review the letter of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the formation of the composition of the Commission for the conduct of the competition, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement three times at its meetings considered the question of the appointment of a candidate from the Supreme Council to a corresponding competitive commission. In view of the suggestions made, the committee adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that there be a commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation such persons as Colonel General Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovic, a national deputy who is very well aware of the operational and search activities, Lieutenant General Bucharyev Vladislav Viktorovich, a national deputy, and one of the commanders, of the Maydan officers, also a respected man, Dedey Eugene Sergiyovich. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two for, two against. Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support this decision unanimously, because today it is very important for us all to demonstrate that there are changes in the country that we are able to make as a parliament the decisions that society is waiting for. And today we can do it all together with you, there are no questions about party membership. There must be justice in the country, and those officials and actors who have failed the task of society and who have lost their trust in society must go without the periphery around them, so that we don't think about it personally. So I'm asking you all to back up right now, to resign the Attorney General, and so that we can pick a new person -- principle and professional as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy Shepherd, Taras Shepherd. Please, National Deputy Costenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this issue, which is very important to our nation. We will now elect individuals to be appointed to the competition commission to be appointed the governing body of the State Bureau of Investigation. This body will be one of the basic organs of the law enforcement system. As legislators, we stipulated that a commission would consist of nine persons: three appointed by the President, three appointed by the government (and they had already done their job), and three appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the committee. What qualifications did we prescribe in the law for the individuals in question? I want to read them to you, it's very important. "Members of the competition commission may be persons who have an irreprehensible business reputation, higher legal education, higher professional and moral qualities, social authority." I want to point out to you that, as legislators in this text, we have prescribed this way an opportunity to maximize the number of persons who may be appointed by the Supreme Council, the President and the Government to this commission. What did the committee do? The committee determined that only members of the committee could be appointed to the committee, narrowed it down to, think of it, only members of the Supreme Council, who are members of the Committee of Law and who have a higher legal education. Only 10 persons, some 10 persons, were identified in this country. So we want to point out to you that the Self-Help faction is not going to support this decision. We suggest we send it back to the committee. The committee should decide on the maximum expansion of the data of persons with legal education is decent and professional. There are not only 10 people in the state, there are many more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote. How do you see it? Positive. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats. Draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin reported on the draft decision. Please, Your Honor, take your places to vote in the entire draft decree. Ready? Colleagues, please 4069 as a whole, draft Election Order, identifying the Supreme Council of Ukraine representatives as part of a commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. In general, we vote 4069, please vote. [[11:10:19]] For 235 Actor's been approved. Draft Decision on the appointment, designation of candidates for a competitive commission for the appointment of the Head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets derived from Corruption and Other Crimes. Reported the chairman of the committee, the head of the Yegor Sobolev Committee. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft regulation. Vote. Short-term review of the ruling, short-term review of the ruling. [[11:11:07]] For 178. The decision has been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u58	Our Committee of the Supreme Council against Corruption proposes to delegate from Parliament the right to choose the leadership of a new agency for the administration of arrested property to public activists who have a good reputation, a good experience of resisting corruption and have no suspicion of dependence or involvement with the political forces. The first name we recommend is Daria Kalenyuk, a man who many know. The anti-corruption center, which even Victor Shokin was marked by the discovery of criminal conduct against them. The second person we recommend, Jaroslav Jurchisin, an activist of the Reanimation Package of Reforms, who is also known by many colleagues in parliament. And the third person is the Kanevsky Globe, the Center for Political Studies and Analysis. He is a recognized expert in the analysis of corruption in the distribution of local budgets. All three of us listened. They were supported by all the members of the committee. A truly professional independent public activist. We ask the Parliament to delegate to them the right to select high-quality managers, independent directors of the Agency, to manage the property that has been arrested, who will be able to bring about an order in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two for, two against. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, our faction fully supports these honourable colleagues in such important positions that we really choose an independent management agency to manage assets that have been created by corruption. At the same time, I'd like to speak to a colleague from a faction whose representatives have just been speaking from the Supreme Council's rostrum. You know, very carefully with the entire Parliament we've heard your speeches on the situation in Bloody Rose. And claims that it was as if these disgraceful election results were in Bloody Rose. And I would like to point out that our faction fully supported the vote on the election in Bloody Rose, and they didn't put our candidate on the stand so that your political power could show it there. And here we have just heard that, as if all the inhabitants of the Horn of Curve had been bought. We want to apologize for those words to the people of the Horn of the Curve. Because it's actually a great and honest city where there are wonderful and honest people who are much more worthy, much more decent, much more professional, much more anti-corruption than those who put up a candidate who had no chance of winning. There was a show that wouldn't let the other members of the coalition put on a single candidate. And if you'll excuse me, they've blown the city to the regionals. And that's entirely your responsibility. And we apologize to the people of the Horn for you! That you haven't even been able to find words of apology today for what you've done in Parliament, for how you've disgraced yourself in the place you've put here! And yet today you have accused the inhabitants of the Horn of Curves who seem to have been sold to the regionals! But you sold it to the regionals by putting up such a disgraceful candidate!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u61	Leonid Yemen, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u62	Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. See, creating this institution, this was a requirement for our European integration into the visa waiver for Ukraine. But when Europeans wanted this agency to work, they wanted it to be effective, to be honest, to be free of corruption. That is why this competitive commission is being created, which our faction fully supports. That is why we vote in full for the names offered, wish them luck, strength, and endurance. For all of us, this body to work honestly, and Ukraine was finally given visa-free treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. We're done speaking from factions and groups. I propose to proceed to the vote. Is there no objection? Please take your seats. Draft Decision on the appointment of candidates to a competitive commission for the appointment of the Head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes. The project was launched on February 15, 2016. Reported the chairman of the Yegor Sobolev committee and discussed just by the National Deputies. There is a proposal for 4053 to be adopted as a whole. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Please take your seats. We're voting 4053 as a whole. 4053 as a whole. Ready? Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:17:32]] For 244 Actor's been approved. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of the National Deputies, in line with the question of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable national MPs, on 28 March 2016, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputies of Ukraine on 26 October 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Brigadier Alexander Mihajlovich and Biloczerkov Dmitr Alexanderovich, who were included in the election list of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u64	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u65	Congratulations, my dear fellow, on making an oath. Please take your seats. I invite you to take an oath to the rostrum of the Ukrainian national deputy, Biloczerkovec Dmitry Alexanderovich is invited. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u66	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to provide for the benefits of the country, the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Crimea! Hail Sevastopol!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u67	Congratulations, dear colleague. Please, I swear. An oath, please pass it on. Congratulations, dear colleague. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions of Oleg Laska and the Self-Help faction to announce the break, but it is requested to be replaced by a speech. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u68	Irina, the representatives of Peter Prashenko's Block, to be honest, it's very hard to hear from you. I want to say a few numbers. Of course, Yuri Wilkul won a huge election in Bloody Rose on Sunday. In the first elections that took place in the fall, 89,000 votes in the first round and 89,000 votes in the second round. On Sunday, he won 210,000 votes, 121 thousand more than he did in the fall election. How did this happen? The representatives of the Opposition Block know the best about it. One hundred and sixty thousand people were officially granted 500 dollars of material aid through the Social Security Departments, which was allocated for taxpayers’ money. 80 million dollars, tax payers’ money, were allocated to provide material aid in the name of Yuri Vilkul. "Resistance," the Ukrainian Electoral Committee, all without exception, the candidates said it was a bribe. Law enforcement, don't you see? No, it's not. Neither the police nor the Attorney General nor the election boards will see that. If Irina Heratschenko doesn't see it, if she's being slapped by some of her colleagues, it's scary. How terrible the first victory of Sergey Berezenko in the elections in Chernig was after Euromeda. Only then did they hide, then there were contracts, then there were other cars driving in secret. Today all of this was revealed. We only have two questions. First. Is he going to be given the Ohio new Order for Curved Rig and for Firsov with Tomenko? And the second question. Do you really think that people are going to put up with this? Don't you understand where you're moving yourself and the whole state?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, for inclusion in the daily draft Law 4048d, prepared by the committee and submitted. Victor Halasyuk. In fact, the law, the order of the day, 4048.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that allows for the elimination of the problem that exists today in ATO territory, in sub-controlled areas where, in fact, normal activities and executive committees and utilities are not impossible today. This bill deals with the issue of registration so that registration and a number of technical issues can take place. We suggest we put it in the agenda, there will be a discussion in two readings. We've created a joint working group with the co-authors. So there are two similar bills, we're comparing positions. On the second reading, there will be a fully consolidated position. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. It's a day-to-day inclusion, and then we'll start looking at it. Dear colleagues, please do not discuss the inclusion of the matter in the agenda. The committee manager reported on the substance of the question, and let's put it in the agenda, when we look at it, we'll discuss the substance of the bill. Dear colleagues, 4048d, ready to vote? 4048d, ready to vote? Please be included in the agenda of the day session. Include all other items in the agenda of the day session. Please, colleagues, 4048d. Vote, enrollment in the agenda. 4048d, Victor Halasyuk has just reported the essence of the law. [[11:25:26]] For 242 Dear colleagues, I ask you to check if there are any alternative laws, they will be considered all together. Let's move on, dear fellows. Social security and culture issues, first-reading laws. 3203: Draft Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" on how to determine the salary to calculate the pension. National Deputy Yuri Suhevich. Dear colleagues, before making a motion to vote on this issue, I will make an announcement. In accordance with the Rules of Article 60 on the entry of Brigadier Alexander Mihajlovich and Bilocerkov Dmitr Alexanderovich into the party's deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenko". There's an offer, my dear fellows, a draft law to be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Short-term procedure. [[11:26:36]] For 178. The decision has been made. Please, National Deputy Yuri Suhevich. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! First of all, I want to thank the profile committee, Mrs. Dennis's, and personally to her for supporting this bill so much, and Mrs. Denisov insisted on agreeing councils that it be included as soon as possible. The point is that this bill is not new. We already voted in favour of him, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on January 14th of last year. It was the Women's Allowance Act, which reached the age of 55 and is 30 years of age and has no job, to retire. But the second point was actually this bill, which is now being proposed. The bill was then vetoed by the President, he had a warning about the first point about women, but he had no warnings about the bill. Then more than 250 deputies voted in favour of the bill. What's the matter? All the people who worked until December 31, 2015 had the right to retire to pay their wages by the year 2000, in the five years they chose. After that, they were denied that right. What's going on now? Now it turns out that if a person filed by December 31st and the other did not make it and filed after December 31, 2015, the difference in pension may be more than twice. Even worse is the situation of those who have not worked at all since 2000. Then, if they retire, you can imagine, and those who retire today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u73	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u74	The difference could be three times. So we're not introducing anything new, it was a rule, and we just want people to continue to have the right to submit as before, it's for their earnings five years before 2000. I ask you to support this bill as a whole, because it has already been voted on and amended by the committee that will be announced under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our colleague Yuri Romanović Shuhevich had his birthday yesterday, let's welcome him. Good health to you, Yuri Romanovich! [[Applause]] Flowers in the studio. Please, Yuri Romanovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, thank you very much. I actually had my birthday yesterday. As one of our parliamentary leaders said, one in two, because I have a wife in one day. And all those who have said their greetings to me yesterday and today, and who greets me today, thank you all very much for me and my wife. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u77	Hello, Yuri Romanovich! Dear colleagues, I invite Sergey Euseiovich Drauk to the report. Please, head of the Committee on Social Policy subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u78	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed the bill at its meeting on January 27, this year. The members of the committee supported the author's initiative, according to which, in order to calculate the pension on a permanent basis alongside the salary for the period after 1 July 2000, additionally take into account the benefit of any 60 calendar months of insurance in a row, irrespective of breaks after 30 June 2000. I will point out that this rule existed until 1 January 2016 and granted the right to those persons who, after 2000 had not had the opportunity to have a decent job and to earn a high salary, to use the salary for the period until 1 July 2000 and thus to increase the level of pensions. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, only in 2015 50 per cent of pensioners -- about 180 of them -- retired with a salary of 60 months before 1 July 2000. Taking into account the low level of wages and the difficult situation in the labour market, the proposed changes that will enable citizens to improve their pensions and preserve the guarantees regarding wage calculation deserve support. Let me draw attention to the fact that it is now March 29th, which is why it is necessary to ensure that the pension is recalculated to those pensioners who have already been appointed since January 1, 2016, as noted in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Therefore, under the transcript, I propose that the chapter “The Final Positions” should be supplemented by paragraph 2 of this text: “The provisions of this law extend to persons to whom pensions are assigned, as listed between 1 January 2016 and the date of entry into force of this law. Paragraph 2, End position, respectively, is to be considered paragraph 3. Please also record in the transcript the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u79	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u80	Please also note in the transcript, "The Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out technical and legal drafting of the bill taking into account the requirements of standard design technology." In view of the above, I ask the National Deputies to support Bill 3203 with the addition I have made, and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please two in favor, two in favor. Please sign up. Please, Lensky. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last January, Parliament, on the initiative of members of the Radical Party, voted an important law that allowed women 55 years of age to retire on the condition that they were 30 years of age. Unfortunately, President Poroshenko vetoed the bill and brought it back to Parliament. Since then, over a year ago, this bill has not yet been submitted to Parliament Hall to be able to overcome the President's veto and allow Ukrainian women to retire The Radical Party faction insists that the law be passed to the Hall, that we overcome the President's veto and allow women 55 years of age to retire for 30 years. Because today there's a paradox where a person can't retire at 55 years of age and under 60 years, five years of age in fact, he can't get anywhere, he can't get a pension, he can't get a normal mother. The bill proposed by a member of the Radical Party, Yuri Shuhevich, eliminates injustice when people actually get twice their pension, three times their pension, just because they earn less legislation that pursues the goal of selecting pensioners. We also insist that our draft law on the abolition of pensions be passed to Parliament, primarily those who have copious pensions and are forced to work only because they cannot survive this pension, and even what they have earned, today they are taking away opportunities, just as they deprive farmers, farm workers of the opportunity to have circulation costs, so that there is money for solitude, for fuel-oil materials, to be able to plant crops and harvest crops. That's why the faction of the Radical Party is in opposition to today's power, because the socio-economic course of power, it's disgraceful and it's leading the country to disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u83	People's MP River, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u84	Guys, they're gone! The People's Front faction will necessarily support this bill 3203. And we, I appeal to all those present in the Chamber of Deputies to support. In the end, justice must prevail. Moreover, such a person is prominent as Suhevich introduced the bill. He will think a thousand times before speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u85	Please, Your Honor. Sergey Mikolaiovich Kaplin, faction of Peter Prashenko, Poltavsk district. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u86	We join the greetings of colleagues with Mr. Suhevich's birthday, and we are grateful for the bill. I confirm that the Committee on Social Policy, Pension Insurance, the honor of the first deputy of whose head I am able to be, has done everything possible to ensure that this bill appears in the hall. However, this bill, like a number of others who have been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not seem to fully address the problems of our respected pensioners. We should always remember that all factories, factories, looted colonies, roads destroyed and used by ministers of today’s government built by our dear pensioners. And we owe a great debt to these beautiful people who had the will and the opportunity to give our lives to preserve our country and what is left of the national economy. I am deeply convinced that the new government and the new prime minister, Vladimir Borisovich, must make the issue of social policy a key issue and a key theme of their activities. You don't have to fool the Ukrainian people that there's no money in the budget and the economy to pay off our pensioners. We will insist on a fundamental audit of social policy, and we will be closely monitoring the activities of the minister of profile with the unions. And I take it you're a professional vice-premier. And let's make sure our world's best retirees don't have the lowest pension, but have a decent pension. And in order for the Council and the government to repay them those debts that have been due for 25 years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your places to vote. The discussion is over. We have the conclusion of an expert, scientific and expert office, where it says that they support the draft law in the first reading. In the first reading, do we accept it? In general, taking into account the committee's proposals? Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please take your seats. 3203 as a base and as a whole. Ready? Dear colleagues, on the basis and generally in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Legal and Technical Rights and the decision of the Committee. Please vote. [[11:41:46]] For 281 The law's been passed. 1553: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage (for the preservation of cultural heritage monuments on the United Nations World Heritage List on Education, Science and Culture. National Deputy Igor Vasjunik. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. I'd like to make up my mind. Short-term procedure. [[11:42:23]] For 180. Decision approved, 180 votes. Please, Igor Vasilovich Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u88	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You have before you a bill of 1553 amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage (UNESCO). Without exaggeration, we can say that corruption has caused us to lose the unique cultural objects that Ukraine is so proud of and that have already become our worldwide visitor. On slides, you can see the destruction of our UNESCO monuments in Lviv. And such monuments of UNESCO and are being destroyed in all the cities of our Ukraine. This problem is very well known to both the experts of Lviv and the experts of Kiev, who have struggled for years with illegal constructions, reconstructions in UNESCO sites, especially in the case of Sofia Kyivsky, Kiev-Pecher laureate and the historical composition of the city of Lviv. Ukraine has already received several warnings from the UNESCO Committee that certain objects may be excluded from its list because of misuse of these structures and renovations. In the bill, we took into account all the necessary recommendations of the 37th session of the UNESCO Committee in 2014 on the creation of bodies for the management of monuments and their development plan. This is important because last year, at the 39th session of UNESCO, held in Bonn, Germany, experts from the committee responded highly to the unprofessional and populist report of Ukraine on the preservation of UNESCO’s monuments. Taking into account that the UNESCO Committee requires the creation of memory management bodies and, unfortunately, the negative experience of corrupt officials, we have actually offered a mechanism of restraint and opposition to the management of UNESCO’s monuments. It is not the official who approves, for example, what to do with the 15th - century stone in Lviv, but the supervisory board of this monument, which will be made up of local authorities and experts. And only after their final agreement will the Ministry of Culture grant final permission. In addition, the bill is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u89	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u90	In addition, the bill proposes to complement the existing law by defining the concept of "memory of global meaning", the concept of "buffer zone", and also by establishing the category "memory of global significance". This bill, honourable colleagues, is an initiative, not of politicians, but of the public and experts. We discussed it further at a round table in Lviv, where representatives of all UNESCO cities gathered. There are further constructive proposals, so despite the Committee's decision to adopt this bill as a whole. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading and to finalize all necessary amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Mikola Knieżicki. Victor Yelensky. Please, National Deputy Victor Yelensky of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u92	Fellow dignitaries, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, considered Bill 1553, submitted by the People’s Deputies of Knieżicky, Matios, and Vasjunik. On June 3, 2015, he concluded and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. We have come from the fact that UNESCO’s monuments are unimaginable phenomena, and we have come from the fact that they are in a very difficult situation. And there were a lot of serious debates around the bill itself, and there were different points of view, and now we agree to the comments of the drafters of the bill, particularly John Vasjunik, and ask the room to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u93	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. National MP Sevrukov, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. There is also a UNESCO monument in Chernobyl, the National University of Chernobyl, and there are constant problems with both the construction and the work in the university itself, and this law solves many issues, so please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u95	Hey, tough guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u96	You're better than
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u97	Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention to the security regulations. I would just like to point out one thing that is important to all of us who live in historic cities. For decades, Ukraine’s government budget through the budget programmes of the Ministry of Culture has not funded a single piece of restoration, rehabilitation, and memorial work in the city of Lviv. Moreover, the city of Lviv, one of UNESCO’s largest real - life objects, has been trying to finance restoration work on UNESCO’s local budget for the past few years, with millions being allocated. This requires the consent of the Ministry of Culture, which cannot be obtained for months. In addition, these photographs and slides, which were shown by a distinguished reporter, were given to all these objects of agreement by the Ministry of Culture. In addition to everything else, I would like to say that monumental and protective legislation does not provide special practice for UNESCO objects in the world and in Europe. This means that national legislation for the protection of national local monuments should be as favourable as possible. There are no authorized bodies and oversight councils in any country of Europe for each UNESCO object. How can we deal with those UNESCO objects located in the territories of the two nations? Under what legislation should it be protected? Our faction will not vote in favour of this bill, but monumental and protective legislation needs substantial work and renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u99	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u100	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Our faction will certainly vote in favour of the bill. And we also need to remind ourselves that, in addition to the fact that we are probably voting now in general, we need to go to the Cabinet of Ministers to provide funds for the financing of the supervisory councils, as they will exercise control over all the activities that will take place in UNESCO's memory and buffer zones. The reporters have already said that there is an object such as the University of Chernobyl in the territory of Chernobyl, and I think that it would be possible to withdraw all those problems. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko of the non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u102	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Actually, in my district, actually, there's "Sofia Kyivska." You know, society, by trying to do the very right thing, as we often do, unfortunately, is in this cabinet in the Supreme Council and in others as well, and especially in this one, there are non-labours in the bill, which then lead to completely opposite consequences. Here you have it written down, in fact, that the appropriate body that will oversee the monument of a global heritage can decide whether to permit or not to permit the construction, and your bill does not conform to the standards of building legislation, that is, a separate city of building legislation, and that is a separate norm. And if a paid court decides whether or not something can be built in a site around such a monument, it may refer to this norm and say that the appropriate authority has given permission and building legislation and all the requirements of urban legislation here to nothing. And you know, we're too sorry about that right now, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u103	Ah, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u104	Regrettably, this happens all the time when courts refer to standards that they are comfortable with, not that that are logical or right for the country, for society. So, please, before accepting this in the second reading, directly, we need to harmonize directly with the standards of urban legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u105	No, there isn't. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 1553. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Please. Ready to vote, Your Honor, 1553 as a basis? Please take your seats. On the basis of the vote, please support me on the basis of the vote. [[11:54:24]] For 219 I see you haven't made it, but you need to be more careful, dear colleagues. Please, there's an offer, there's an offer to go back to 1,553 and look at it again in the first reading. Please be more considerate, distinguished colleagues! Ready to vote for the return of 1553? On return, let's vote back to 1553. Please be supportive. We'll go back and we'll take it, we'll talk. Please support the return. [[11:55:10]] For 239. Thank you. Vote on the ground, please support, colleagues. Protection of cultural heritage is a question, but I think between the first and the second readings we can work it out. Let's support, colleagues, vote for base 1553. Please support, on a base. [[11:55:36]] For 249 The law was passed on as a basis. Thank you. We keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the next issue under the Rules is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage (2129a). And I have a request to the deputies that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure 2129a, we vote. [[11:56:18]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to see the report by Yelen Viktor Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage (to grant subjects an underwater cultural heritage of Marine Memorial status). I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the waters of Ukraine, to the precious monuments: sunken ships, ancient ones, from the 20th century, the 20th century. There are 18 of these ships in the waters of Ukraine, sunk ships with the largest number of people, such as the shipping of Armenia, which carried 7,000 wounded. They've all sunk. There are other ships, there are art artifacts. And all these cultural phenomena need protection. What is it? It's a very simple bill. It is about giving such monuments the status of the Sea Memorial. These monuments are to be placed in a worldwide lotion. They are prohibited without special permission from archaeological research, and they are also prohibited from doing the same again without permission from excursions. I think so. And we are confident that the adoption of this bill will contribute greatly to the preservation of these precious things. And we're in agreement with the expert environment, the historians, as well as the underwater archaeologists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u108	Victor Eugeneovich, how much time do you have? Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u109	They were able to translate from Crimea the priceless cultural heritage of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u110	Thank you. To the report. And the Yelen Viktor Evgenovich will also report from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u111	Very short. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u112	One second, I'm sorry, I'm going to continue with the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u113	So the committee reviewed the bill and unanimously supported it. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're talking. Are there people who want to talk? Yes, yes. Please sign up: two for, two for against, please. Vitaly Semenovich, Petra Poshenko's Block. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill must be supported unequivocally because the protection of our historical heritage, the protection of historical monuments, is a very important moment, a moment in the history of our nation. Not only should we support the protection of the historical heritage that lies on the seabed, it is important, but we need to pay attention to what is actually being robbed of what is in the earth. The so-called "black archaeologists" have already devastated all of Ukraine, and no one is actually fighting them today, the same is true of underwater objects. So this legislation should be tough enough and it should stop this looting of our historical values. That's why the bill needs to be voted on, that's a fact. And accept it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, the River Andriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u117	The People's Front faction unanimously supports this bill. And we turn to other factions, to all deputies to support, vote, to adopt this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m0.u118	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. There will be a vote. I'm asking MPs to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. The committee therefore recommends the adoption of the bill as a basis. And I'm putting the committee to a vote. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, 2129ad, on the basis of Please vote, please support, colleagues. On the basis of this, please vote. [[12:02:40]] For 221 Dear colleagues, I ask you to be careful and work in Parliament. I'm asking my fellow deputies to take their seats. We will now return if there are votes and vote. Please, colleagues who have left, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I propose to return to the 2129ad vote. Please support the return to the vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be careful and vote. Vote! [[12:03:32]] For 223 Two votes, colleagues. We didn't make it? Then be careful, colleagues! Please come in, take your jobs. So I'm going to go back to Bill 2129a. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[12:04:10]] For 232 Decision taken. And now I'm back on the line. I'm basing Bill 2129a on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Please vote for 2129a. Vote. [[12:04:38]] For 236 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters! Dear colleagues! I still have a message to read that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, literally just now. I'll read it completely. "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! According to 83 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian National Deputies, which form part of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka, confirm the unanimous decision of the deputy faction to withdraw from the coalition of MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. Adopted on 1 September 2015. But they claim to withdraw their signatures under the treaty to join the coalition." And signatures: Ljasko, Lozova, Šuhević, Popov, Mosiyczuk, Galasjuk, Lensky, Silantiev, Koseljeva, Artemenko, Kuprienko, Kirichenko, Skuratovsky, Linko, Ammelchenko, Fishing, Vuk, Korchinska, Chižmar. So this is already sound information. I'm handing it over to the Supreme Council Secretariat for registration. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we've received a statement from three factions about a break after our break at 12.40, which is due to begin, in fact, that will not allow us to work fully. At 12:15 a coalition meeting is scheduled to begin here in the hall. And in order not to interrupt our work after 12 hours, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o’clock, we meet here in the hall to continue our work, not easy, but necessary for the country. Thank you. And congratulations on your important decisions. I'll see you later.
