ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we're going to need 150 people in order to be able to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Let me just wait a minute. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we're about to enter. Come to the workplace, there will be a registration for the evening session. So, colleagues, while the MPs are going, I want to let you know, explain the logic of our actions. I'm asking for your attention. Dear colleagues, so at the moment the committee will bring all the necessary documents, we will consider extending the moratorium to the ground. This is the requirement of all the heads of factions. A few days ago, under the walls of the Supreme Council, I met with his representatives, and I also promised that we would immediately put the Supreme Council under review. As far as I know, the committee took place, we're waiting for the committee to bring the papers. The committee has also taken place under bill 5050, which is helping to register all our religious communities, and this is the Council of Churches' request to the Supreme Council. Both of these bills will be put in place as soon as there are papers. Now, colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have a bill in my hands to repeal the voting results for the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (2966-d). This bill has been registered, and in fact, our important, mutual decision cannot take effect until we consider it. According to the Rules, it is not necessary to include it in the order of the day; it should be placed as soon as it appears in the hall. Can I put it now? I can. To get our commission to work. So that our law of great reform can be signed by the President. Colleagues, colleagues, do not need a special vote. I have to put it on as soon as it gets to me. So, colleagues, as long as they're carrying the committee papers. I'm going to put you to a vote right now, and I'm going to ask you just one thing to shorten the procedure, colleagues, so I'm going to ask you. So that the National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and utilities, we can sign and it can enter into force. Do you copy, colleagues? So let's go to Project Order 2966-d. Now. Yes, yes, I'm sorry. Now, let's do the registration first, and then we'll move on. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. [[16:08:56]] 356 for. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's move on to 2966. And as our legal department explained to me, it doesn't need to vote short, it's done automatically. Colleagues, automatic. So it's going to follow a simplified procedure, please, it's going to be a short question, but we have to look at it. I invite you to report to the author of the bill, Ukrainian national deputy Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, last plenary Parliament passed the draft Law on the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Market Regulation. I want to remind Ukrainians that the existence of an independent energy regulator independent of power, independent of monopolies, independent of oligarchs, is a key prerequisite for creating objective, honest and uplifting tariffs for Ukrainian citizens. Regrettably, in the version that voted the NCREKP Act, it creates a power-dependent National Commission and as a result, every Ukrainian in his own pocket will pay for dragon tariffs on electricity, utilities, and energy corruption. I want to remind you that today, the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services and Energy Market, which, unfortunately, is created in violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, is functioning. This commission is headed by a completely unprofessional manager called the Wolf, and in fact this Wolf in sheep's clothing, over the last two years, as he heads this in an unconstitutional way, a formed commission, because of an increase in looting tariffs, he robs Ukrainian citizens. That's why the members of the Radical Party -- myself, Oleg Kuprienko, our other colleagues -- have appealed to the court for annulment of the decision of the National Commission on the regulation of the public services market to increase the tariffs on utilities, the hot and cold water that was raised from July 1st this year. The next trial will take place tomorrow. And we urge all Ukrainians to come to trial and support the radical party's team's fight against looting tariffs. And now I propose to Parliament to reject this bill to stop robbing Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u3	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u4	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The committee reviewed the draft Decree (registration 2966-d) by the National Deputies Láško Oleg Valeriyovich and Kupryenka Oleg Vasilovich on the tape. Draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Voting for the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services. The draft regulation proposes that the results of the vote be repealed for a draft law which the authors consider to have been in breach of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the draft decree was pointed out by the committee. The draft Law (registration 2966-d) was twice considered at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council on July 14 and September 22 and in a second reading, and was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 250 national deputies voted in favour. According to part one and fourth of article 124 of the Rules for rereading, the bill is submitted by the main committee in the form of a comparative table. And the second reading is done again by the second reading procedure. As seen in the September 22th transcript of the plenary session, the consideration of the bill took place exactly in order to consider the bills in the second reading, namely, the proposals and amendments, their discussion and appropriate voting. During the consideration of the project, comments were made on the content of the proposals and amendments. Regarding the breach of the alert procedure, particularly the author of the draft decision, Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko, also made comments on the content of the bill. Furthermore, under Part Eight of the 48th Rules, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine should be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Onufrik Bogdan Semenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u6	Thank you. Please pass the word to my colleague, Pottery Alexia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, it's very interesting for us to be invited here tomorrow to go to court against unfair tariffs, and at this time one of the pillars of the Radical Party of Igor Museiczuk sewed up a hat with lead, put on glasses and flew to Dubai. I understand that he's doing a very serious tariff-fighting job there right now, because it's warm, and he can bring us any know-how to Ukraine, how we can warm up Ukrainians without any tariffs, no gas at all. It's all serious. I welcome the efforts of our colleagues. And I think we should thank my colleague Igor Mosiychuk, who is now just sitting around in the Supreme Council and working for the state in Dubai and Sharja. Seriously, it's stately, it's a real MP! Hooray!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u8	Podlisetic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that this vote will not lead to a positive outcome, because it was put out in that room, at a time when there aren't very many votes, but I wanted to say something else. I'd like to mention how we voted on the NCRE KP Act and what was the deal that we had at the time that was coming out of the rostrum. There was an agreement on a two-right vote, namely, the first full-rotation amendment that would ensure an absolute change in the entire composition of the commission for six months and then, with a positive result, I repeat, by positive result, we could vote in favour of creating that nomination commission that was provided for by law. The nominee commission, which is provided for by law, which was eventually voted, is, in fact, drawn to the influence of the President of Ukraine. Since the President of Ukraine actually appoints two members, two members are appointed by the Supreme Council, one by the Cabinet of Ministers. So we're still going to have this NCRECR body that's going to have a lot of influence. will be influenced by the President of Ukraine. But what happened was, it just showed that the agreement and the political arrangements mattered little enough, and if the goals were to be regarded as the highest fraction, it was achieved. So I think that everyone should vote as they see fit, but in any case, we have to understand that the President is responsible for all the tariffs that are being set up today. I'd like to take the opportunity to ask the President to release the Wolf, because he's still completely in control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u10	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u11	I would like to ask again, not as a requirement, but as a request to the President to consider Mr. Vuk's activities as Head of the NCRE in the last year of his activities, to analyze and release him because of his unprofessional activities or to take responsibility for his activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u12	Thank you. Kugel Alexander gives the word Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u13	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction will support the abolition of the vote for this bill. Because creating this "independent" organ is a fiction. We worked with this bill for a year, but his vote was tainted by amendments that gave the President unconstitutional powers. And the faction. Fatherland will sue them in the Constitutional Court. Because the Constitution has a comprehensive list of the powers given to the President, and the President has no right to appoint members there. So it's going to be six months before there's going to be a rotation of one board member, twelve to the other, eighteen to the next. I mean, we really are this commission. And this commission, what it does is it doubles the tariffs for the population, there's no reason for it, there's no calculation, and it calls it market tariffs when we don't even have a gas market, so much a monopoly is called Naftogaz. So here, the whole responsibility for this promotion is on a faction that is subordinated to the President. The Fatherland faction supports this decision in a variety of ways, and we urge Mr. Wolf and the other members of the commission to resign voluntarily until the people have taken them out of there for what they are doing. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! A very interesting picture is seen in the plenary room. These are representatives of some factions that were part of a coalition that voted in favour of a number of bills agreed to by the IMF, and now they say it's the fault of the BPT faction. This is your common fault because you voted first for all the bills in the IMF agreement. When you received these first tranches, you didn't think about the tariff rise, you knew it, you knew it. And the representatives of Fatherland, Self-Help and the Radical Party -- you all knew about it and voted in favour of a series of these bills. And now you're transferring this guilt to other factions. You're responsible for this in common: both the BP, and the People's Front, and you, all the factions. And to say that you are now so democratic and for the people, you don't have to. Everyone remembers the bills you voted for and the decisions you made. Now, concerning the substance of the bill. Unfortunately, the practice of violating the Rules has become very common. The rules are being violated all the time, on a daily basis. The bill's re-voting is the norm. No one even takes note of this: neither the chairman nor the Governing Body nor the regulatory committee. In general, I would say that half of these laws, which the Opposition Block faction is trying to charge in the Constitutional Court, should be repealed in this way because they are adopted with gross violation of the Rules. We are calling for the implementation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the citizens. And what they see for themselves is a gross violation of the Rules. Those decisions that need to be inserted now in the hall are pushed out of several ballots. This has to be stopped. The Rules must be followed, and there will be no such situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to regulations and procedures, each faction has the right to speak. Whoever hasn't done it, raise your hand. Please, Dombrowski, one minute. Turn on the microphone. Those of you who have not yet been part of the factions, raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I would like to explain in a calm manner that those national MPs who will now vote in favour of this ruling will vote in favour of leaving things the way they are, as everyone today criticises. To leave NCRE in the same condition as it is, with the same personnel that we are putting forward claims, and to leave all, one hundred percent of the authority in the hands of the President of Ukraine. The law does not provide for this; we need to move forward. So I urge you not to vote, not to support, or to preserve the wrong situation that we have today in relation to NCRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u18	Thank you. Society, I want to remind you: Replication is given when the name is given. You can explain in detail. When the name is given, there is a replica. Every time I give, every time. Sometimes 30 seconds for which Sergey Lechchenko is offended. But when the name is given. Dear colleagues, if there are no more factions, the discussion is over, colleagues. I want you. And by factions, that's two for, two for against, that's what it is. Only those factions that didn't fall into the list of four, they take extra, colleagues. Fellows, I emphasize to you once again: it is given when two to two; and which factions do not fall, it is given to them, which do not fall, fellows. We can move on to making a decision. And, fellows, I would like to stress to you that without this ruling, there can be no signed law -- one of the most important laws that we've adopted this fall -- is the National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities. I mean, to support this law, if it's not signed, you don't have to vote for it, not vote for it. Anyone who thinks they can't sign it has to vote in favour. I'd like to make it very clear that the MPs don't get confused in time. Colleagues, please come into the decision-making room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show me, show me this rule. Show me this rule of the Rules. Let me see. I don't see any document to confirm that. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Voting Results for the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services (No. 2966-d). [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to you after the vote. There's a vote coming! Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. He who upholds the law does not vote. Please vote. [[16:25:37]] For-90 The decision is not made. Order 2966d dismissed. I'll give you one minute. I'll give you one minute to give Julia Timoshenko a speech. Please. The decree is rejected. Please, one minute, Sergey Sobolev. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dudenkov lied, as the people of Yanukovich always do. It was their faction that gave 29 votes for the illegal NCREKP to be created. What's more, if you see the factions right now, they're not voting for the decision again, because it's convenient for the energy barons that control this faction, and they're actually putting the knees of the population of Ukraine. It's no wonder that a strange alliance of so-called majority and the Party of Regions are implementing laws that destroy the tax system that destroy the energy security system that destroys the entire state. "You're going the right way, comrades." As soon as she gets you to where she's going, we'll see it very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you once again, Decree 2966-d has been rejected. This opens the way for me, and I'm going to sign the law today. And I'm sure the President will sign it in the very next few days, and our law will take effect. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we are now going to draft Law 5050, which we voted for, which is the committee's decision. And I remind you, we're waiting for the committee to decide on the moratorium. As soon as he does, I'll put him up right away. They've asked for another 10 minutes, and we're about to be able to consider this bill. So let's go to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code" (to clarify certain provisions on non-profit taxation) (5050). To us and to me, as the Head of Parliament, there was a call from the Council of Churches that we should vote on this bill and, more importantly, the President appointed it as an urgent one. And so I'm asking you to look at it right now and I ask you to support the procedure for reviewing it by means of a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure, please vote. Please, my colleagues, we're voting. [[16:28:18]] For 175 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ungurian Pavel Jakimovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u21	Praise Jesus Christ. Dear colleagues, this is a sufficiently technical bill aimed at making technical changes to the Tax Code, but they are extremely important for the operation of the great work of charity, charity and volunteering, the assistance of chaplainism, which is now being carried out by various religious organizations in Ukraine, both Christians of various religions and Muslims, to whom our brothers are also the Crimean Tatars, as well as by the Jewish communities represented in Ukraine. The point is that the Tax Code contains a small error that deprives religious organizations of any religion of the status of non-profit when they do charity to both members of their communities, religious communities and other people who need it. Actually, we're correcting this enough technical error. If we don't fix it, by January 1st of next year, 17th of the year, the fiscal authorities have the right to deprive any Christian, Jewish, Muslim organization of the status of non-profit, and they'll just tax it, even though it never was, and it's unprecedented. We consulted the Committee on Tax, Customs Policy. I would now ask that the final version of the work that was done in the break of our work on the committee be kept professionally informed by Nina Petrovna Jujanina. I ask you very much to support this technical amendment to the Tax Code, which will make our charity work even more systematic in Ukraine. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u22	30 seconds, please. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u23	So, given the above, given that all the factions supported the introduction of the bill and its voting on the basis and in general. Thank you, thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u24	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna asked for a little more time, so I'll give her permission to read the committee's decision, and I'll add two more minutes. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u25	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! We are all well aware of the standards we have adopted regarding the status of a nonprofit organization. What is the basic requirement of today’s Tax Code? This is to ensure that the income of a non-profit organization is used exclusively to finance expenses for the maintenance of such a non-profit organization, the realization of the goal and the direction of activities defined by its instruments. And they did not consider that in religious organizations it is still a large - scale activity that is the provision of humanitarian, charitable assistance to its adherents. Therefore, it was the authors of the bill that solved two problems in their draft law. Allowing nonprofit organization status to religious organizations, including charity and humanitarian aid, and mercy. And the second problem with religious organizations is that we obliged all non-profit organizations that set up documents that do not meet the rules of the current Tax Code, re-register these documents and submit them to the tax authority by 1 January 2017. It has been clarified that all our religious organizations can reregister their statutes only by agreeing with local authorities. There's very, very little scope for such a re-entry. A couple of statutes a week. Thus, religious organizations fail to meet the set deadlines. Thus, the drafters tried to solve two problems. Add charity and mercy to religious institutions and extend them the possibility of reregistering documents for another year. So at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted as a basis and, in general, as a law only in the form that I am about to read to you and that might be distributed to you in the hall so that you can see it in a comparative table, in what items and what we added. That is, article 133 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Who is the taxpayer and definition 133.4.1: "The non-profit enterprise, institution and organization are enterprises, institutions and organizations that meet these requirements at the same time." To this sub-paragraph, we add one sentence: "For the purposes of this paragraph, it is not considered to be an income distribution, income, expenditure financing as defined in sub-paragraph 133. 4.2 of this paragraph." Subparagraph 133. 4.2 we're adding this definition to religious organizations, this is the second sentence of sub-paragraph 133. 4.2. The incomes of religious nonprofit organizations are also used to carry out unprofitable charitable activities provided by law for religious organizations, including humanitarian aid, charitable activities, and mercy. And finally. In "Transitional Positions" of chapter XX, subsection 4, "The Personality of Income Taxation" in paragraph 35, add the sentence of the following content. "Temporaryly by 1 January 2018, there can be no reason to exclude non-profit religious organizations from the Register of Non-profit Institutions and non-compliance organizations with the requirements for establishing documents set out in sub-paragraph 133.4.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u26	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u27	"Article 133.4 of this Code." All of it. Two main points that solve the problem of religious organizations are religious organizations. In such an edition of the committee's decision, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u28	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please. Jedakov Jaroslav Yuriovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u29	Please pass the word to a colleague of Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I would certainly like to thank the professional committee that met during the break and, by providing the quorum, did a very big job. I would like to say again that, in fact, all the people who visit temples do so as volunteers, like the chaplains, the ATO soldiers, the needy, the disabled, the orphans. And actually, the norm of the Tax Code, which makes it impossible to define this activity as non-profit, has to be technically altered. And we can continue to be able to re-register the statute by 1 January 2018. In fact, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine, who defined this bill as urgent, and to thank all the leaders of the factions who signed a letter to the Head of Parliament to consider it today, because the authorities of the local self-government, the bodies of the Ministry of Culture, are actually failing to register these statutes, and that we do not have one second to stop the charitable, charitable, humanitarian work in the country of request. The People's Front faction will unanimously support it as a foundation and as a whole. And we're asking you to support us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u31	Thank you very much. Please, Ostrikova Tetjana Georgievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u32	Honorable colleagues, of course, must support the church and religious organizations. To provide them with the very opportunity to carry out an activity that, well, is the core of their activities, is charity, charity and mercy. What's the point of this bill that's happening right now? The pilgrims form a church, they are members of this religious organization. One of them got sick, the church got together, the neighbors raised money, and they want to give it to a parishioner for medical care. If they do so according to a valid version of the Tax Code, this is recognized by the distribution of the income of such an organization and thus loses its nonprofit status. As a result, religious organizations are excluded by tax authorities from the register of nonprofit organizations because they do not match that sign. What are we doing? In fact, we do not allow ourselves to be distributed in any way to the churches and religious organizations of their profits. We are simply saying that the incomes of religious nonprofit organizations can be used to engage in unprofitable charitable activities provided by law for religious organizations. It's humanitarian aid, it's charity and mercy, it's all prescribed in the relevant profile law. So the argument that it could create some kind of tax hole there and so on, they can't stand any criticism. Therefore, Your Honor, Self-Help will support, and I ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u33	Please, Evlakh's Anatoly Sergiyyovich of the Peter Dustenka Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u34	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, please pass the word to Oksani Prodan. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u35	Please, Mrs. Oksana Prodan. Oksani's microphone. Sold. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to vote in favour of this bill, because the actual tax code actually forces religious organizations, like all nonprofits, to change registration in the register. Religious organizations in Ukraine today, 35,000, physically unable to re-register, because they have to apply primarily to district government administrations where people cannot physically provide for re-registration. When we vote with you on the project, I'm sure all of you will support these changes, religious organizations will be able to stay unprofitable, not pay income taxes as they are today, January 1st of next year, and be able to provide their fellow believers with charity. Please all support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u37	Please, Dudenkov from the Opposition Block. Miroshenko, please. Myrrhichenko, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I would like to address representatives of all factions, and I would like to inform you that this bill is the result of addressing us as the people's advocates of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, which unites all religions and all religious organizations in Ukraine. We have an interfractional merger that has actually prepared this bill, and in fact, I'll tell you that this bill is meant to correct our mistake with you. Because it is obvious as an axiom that churches are not profitable organizations. And what we just didn't count when we changed into the Tax Code, we're correcting with you now. The only thing I personally have is some warnings. This will be whether the administration of justice will work conscientiously, which will be amended to the statutes. This will not create a selective principle. And the second. We can't make it. whether we can make all the changes by 1 January 2018. But in general, I'm asking you very much, because today we have examples, when we vote with the entire hall, I very much and very much ask you to support this bill and actually fulfill your duty to all the citizens who attend churches of different religions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u39	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. No, please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u40	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill is an example of how we can't work on legislation. When our "Fatherland" faction warned you what you do with the Tax Code, when you even tax the churches. How could this be done? We personally addressed Prime Minister Yatsenuk with these warnings. No, that was when the decision was to be made, and the situation was immediately brought to light. Churches have always performed the most difficult tasks in the most difficult times for countries and nations: they have created lodgings, free meals. And if it's taxed, it's already the tip of cynicism. That is why our faction supports the initiative of the Council of Churches so that this will never happen again. And I think these are going to be examples of how laws can't be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u41	Thank you. There hasn't been a radical party yet, Lozov, one minute and we're going to the vote. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. The last speech is the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u42	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. It was very painful to see when the day’s agenda was set aside for the Christian conservative country where it was. who became a good home for people of all religions, and there are both Orthodox and Greek Catholics and Roman Catholics and Jews and Muslims in this room. It is very embarrassing for those deputies who have been kept in the daytime order, and these deputies appeal to the values of Maidan. On the night of November 29 - 30, when the special squads of the students were dispersed, when the blood was shed, where did the people flee to hide, where did they find shelter? In Michael's Golden Mountain Monastery. For our people, the Church has always been a second home, always a protection. And glory to Ukraine and glory to Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I've had a number of appeals from the deputies so we can take it as a basis. It's going to be an important signal and a sign. And I think we'll take it in two weeks at a time. Is that right? No, no, no, no, no, no. So please prepare for the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna, please, one minute. Nina Petrovna. Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u44	Andry Volodymyrovich, we worked on the text of the law, the draft law. It's already on the Supreme Council website. The committee's decision was on the basis and generally as a law, taking into account the same text that I read from the rostrum. Because if we talk about second reading, all the churches have already received reports from the State Fiscal Service that they are being expelled from the register. We're not taking that question off, it's relevant right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u45	Nina Petrovna, I'm coming out that if we give a sign right now, everyone will understand, and no more letters will go to church communities. If we do it on a base, it's clear to everyone that we're going to solve this issue. It's just that I'm afraid we're at risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, right? Colleagues, I'll lay the groundwork first. First. Who supports making the decision as a basis. Please. Please vote on who supports this decision as a basis. [[16:46:49]] For 287 287 on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! There are a number of people in the room who are opposed to us being accepted in general right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's exchange thoughts. Please, Baby, one minute, Timoshenko, one minute. And who else? And the sale is one minute. Please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u46	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, respected colleagues, voted 287 deputies not to tax aid to the church. If there are people who deny it, the Rules provide for an ad hoc procedure. You put to the vote: step away from the procedure of second reading and vote in general. If Parliament supports, we put it in general and we vote in general. We follow the procedure, we follow the law -- and we do a good thing for the church by supporting the Ukrainian Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko, one minute. And then the sale is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I think we just have to pay attention to the tragic mistake made by the Yatsenuk government when they introduced church finances. And what I'm saying is that you can't let that happen and you can't leave it. And we ask that we put it all together now. Churches can't be persecuted by tax today, they can't be humiliated like this. Remember that the Ukrainian Church today helps the front sometimes more than some, sorry, politicians. And that's what we have to take into account. You don't have to delay. In this room, the lobbying laws are voted on in general, and no one is listening to who is in the opposite room. Now it's about churches, and we're looking for someone who raises his hand against voting in general. Put the vote on the table as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u49	Thank you. Last one, please, Igor Green, one minute. The last act, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u50	Mr. Head! Deputies! Let us not be afraid to sin before the Rules. This is not the greatest sin we can ever commit. Let us vote today as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u51	Thank you, colleagues. Can I put it to a vote? From the front. Who else from the front? Ivanchuk, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u52	Dear Mr. Head, stop this speculation. So when was it for the government or the Prime Minister to adopt laws? Well, we do have a Constitution. The Supreme Council adopts laws. Stop manipulating people's minds! The People's Front supports this law and requires the ad hoc procedure, without ad hoc voting this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u53	Thank you, colleagues. I put it all together. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the clarification of certain provisions on non-profit taxation) (5050) according to the Committee's decision as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:28]] For 281 The law is passed. Decision taken. I welcome the authors and welcome the MPs who prepared this bill, and these are all the heads of the factions who voted. The Society, five minutes from now, will be the decision of the Moratorium Committee, five minutes from now, and we now have two short - and - a - second readings on the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no committee yet. I don't have a document on my hands yet, colleagues. So we're going in the daytime. The next one in the second reading is. 2297, 3467. I want to point out, colleagues, that we have a minimum number of rights, and after those two bills, I've already been promised a decision by the Moratorium Committee. So two bills that are next in order of the day, and we're going to go into their consideration. The first is 2297. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to create favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages. It's a second reading, it doesn't need another procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u54	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, at its meeting on June 15, 2016, reviewed the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to create favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages (number 2297). The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its second reading, approve the bill as a whole, taking into account the proposals and observations made by the Ukrainian national deputies. The bill provides the necessary grounds for sending charitable telecommunications messages, such as enabling conditions for doing so for both the benefactors and the communicators. Your point is a comparative table for the second reading, the committee rejected proposals under 5, 6, 10, 14, 16, 19, 32, 37, 38, of which number 6 was proposed by the Lensky MP, the rest of the Levchenk MP, the proposal was rejected for the reason that another draft law, which was not included by the author, was adopted in the first reading under the transcript. In general, as you recall, it was a draft of the national deputy of Vojciekhiv, the national deputy of Ostrikov, and then two bills were passed, worked together. A very important bill, supported by everyone, please support you as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u55	No, we'll go through the repairs, there's not many, we'll go through it. Please, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u56	Thank you. So we're going after the repairs. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Don't insist. Amendment 6 of the Lensky People's Deputy. Is he insisting? No, it's not. I see yours. We'll go through the revisions later. Amendment 10 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Are you insisting? Please insist. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u57	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to say that I don't insist on any of my amendments, because in fact the remarks were taken into account. The only thing I'd really like to say here is that what I'm asking for is not just a reporter, all of us, to move away from the practice of being completely wrong -- reading the bills under the transcript in the first reading, but working normally between the first reading and the second reading, then there will be no questions that something in the first reading has actually been read, and then there's no reason to make these amendments. So I very much ask you all to work in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u58	Let's agree. And as Mr. Levchenko said he didn't insist on any of his amendments, so he doesn't insist on the 14th, 16th, 19th amendments. Then Lewchenko doesn't insist on the 32nd, doesn't insist on the 37th, doesn't insist on the 38th. And at this, the amendments of the People’s Deputy Levchenk and others have been completed. May I have your word, 30 seconds, National Deputy of Fatherland Krulko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, it is an extremely important bill. I'm a co-author of the amended bill. 3 My revisions, which are prepared for second reading, are taken into account editorially. At the same time, I will not insist on their vote. I think that this project that the committee has prepared must be supported. And actually give millions of Ukrainians the opportunity without tax to count their funds for charity, which will allow them to actually raise funds for the treatment of those with cancers, to raise funds for the needs that Ukrainian local communities need and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u60	Please don't insist, Mr. John. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. We can move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, please, please, please make a decision right now. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. So can we move on to making a decision? We can. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to create favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages. Number 2297 in second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support an important social bill. Vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[16:56:41]] For 299 Decision taken. Hello! Colleagues, the next is, in fact, his extension, the bill. There's no right at all. We are moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable telecommunications messages) No. 3467. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We have a very short bill. Because there were no amendments to the second reading. Everything remained in the same order as it was. In fact, three points of exemption are reduced by the taxpayer's tax liability, our operators, the provider of the telecommunications service provider when the subscriber refuses to pay the overpaid but not received telecommunications services, are allowed to calculate part of the amount of the prepayment as a donation in the execution of the charitable telecommunication message at the request of the subscriber. This law is systematically related to the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to create favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages (registration No. 2297). This, uh, no more amendments. So please support the line that is given to you. And we ask that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct its technical and legal work. Including taking note of the comments given if they come from you. If not, then in the same way as the text given to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u62	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. All the amendments were taken into account. Therefore, there is no discussion; we can move on to making a decision. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We're about to vote. This is actually a continuation of the previous law. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable telecommunications messages) (3467) in the second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:59:39]] For 290 Decision taken. So Law 2297 and Law 3467 were adopted. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the authors. I know what a busy job it was, and I know how important it was for us to adopt this bill today. Colleagues, there has already been a decision by the committee to consider drafts relating to the extension of the moratorium on land sales. There's already a committee decision. The committee head is ready to report. I want to remind you that we have put in order the daily bill 4727, the bill 5123 and 5123-1. I want to apologize that there was another bill of 1071, which was not technically passed to me, but I will certainly allow the author of the bill to speak during the discussion so that there are no warnings on this issue. And as far as I know, author 4727 Oleg Valeriovich Lazko wants to make a message about his bill. I'm asking him to turn on the microphone for three minutes. If it's taken, we'll get right to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u63	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u64	Okay, then let's go to the first draft, which was introduced first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u65	What procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u66	Short. Now. The first was Bill 4727 of the People’s Deputy Láška. There's a suggestion that we consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:01:24]] For-174 Hence, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko is invited to the floor, a reduced procedure. Please be as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you to colleagues, leaders of factions and national deputies who have finally decided that in Parliament today we will adopt the Act on the Extension of the Moratorium for the Sale of Agricultural Land. Those who propose to sell land in Ukraine are people who don't know Ukrainian history, people who don't like peasants, people who don't realize Ukrainian futures. Like the United Arab Emirates, for example, the Lord gave oil to the Ukrainians, so God gave the land to the Ukrainians. But oil today is gone, tomorrow is gone, and the earth is an eternal commodity. Not the goods, the land should be held forever by the Ukrainians. It's not a product, it's what they want to make of it. The land is what belongs to the Ukrainians and should belong from the beginning, because it has to be sold, not land, but produce from this land. I registered a bill on May 30 this year on the extension of the five-year moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. But in order to make a compromise, so that we can adopt a law here, so that we can continue the moratorium on land sales, we're taking down 4727 and asking the hall to support a joint agreement with all the faction leaders, Bill 5123-1, which continues the moratorium for 1 year. Unfortunately, it's only 1 year, but it's better to continue the moratorium than to have nothing at all and have a vacchanal from the new year. The next step the government has to take is to support farming, it's to develop the village, it's to return the young to the village, it's to develop the infrastructure, it's to develop the animal and plant industries that have lost. And one thing to remember is that the land must belong to the Ukrainians, and Ukrainian peasants must be masters on their own land. Please vote in favour of banning the sale of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do I rightly understand that now under the Rules we have to consider alternative drafts as well? I invite you to the report of the authors of alternative bills. Now they're just going to give it to me because it's only been set up at 2:00 a.m., and thank you very much. Alternative Bill 5123: Draft Law on Amendments to Chapter X of the Land Code on the Protection of National Interests and Food Security of the State by extending the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land and the prevention of its hidden sale under emfitevsis contracts. The reporter is Mrs. Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, this bill was introduced on September 15, 2016, this is a bill to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land by 2022 for five years. In addition, this bill also raises the issue of a moratorium on emphithesis in order to cover up another major affair that is made with land, is the sale of land, it's a separate story and it has to be literally banned now and there is emphitheussis. What is it? Emfitevzis means that land that is lent to the tenants without agreement with the masters of the pies, without any agreement with them can be leased for 50 years, can be placed in a bank, which means that if they have not returned the loan, the owners of the pies lose their land, without the permission of the owner of the land, the third person can be given the opportunity to invest any engineering in this territory, to build anything. So it's essentially a non-sale selection of land in the joints, it's called emphytevsis. And I want to tell you that Bill 5123, not only does it prolong the moratorium on land sales, it further prohibits for five years and emphitheus. This is something that differs from that bill that will be considered and that is now in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u70	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u71	No, wait, we didn't have that cut-off procedure. We didn't have a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I specifically asked you a question in the hall because we voted. Now, one second. We voted when we reported to Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko, the bills of two alternatives, and we voted that all three were going on a shorter procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I want to let you know. Attention, colleagues! Bill 4727 was put under review. The author suggested that it be removed. We have this proposal to vote and then move on to the next bill. That's why we're here. Julia Volodymyrna, we will consider, spoke in the discussion. We're going to vote now. Colleagues, we didn't finish our decision on 4727, we didn't finish his consideration. Excuse me, please. We have to finish his consideration and then move on to the next one. You're in, right? So, colleagues, is there a need to speak 4727, or are we going to vote? I am voting on the proposal that the author made to withdraw the bill. To withdraw Bill 4727 from the vote. I ask this proposal of the author to support and I ask that we vote so that we can go to the following bills: 5123 and 5123-1. I'm asking you to back me up. Please come into the hall and support the proposal, colleagues. Please vote in favour of withdrawing 4727. Please vote. Colleagues, please support the proposal, please vote. [[17:08:51]] For 269 The bill has been removed. Now we're going to Bill 5123 and Alternative 5123-1, colleagues. And I'm proposing a brief discussion of it. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Short-term procedure, please. [[17:09:24]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to report on this bill by the author of the Bill, Julia Volodymirovna Timoshenko, 5123. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u74	And so version 2.0. Can you not repeat what she said before? Say it again, please, for fuck's sake. Okay. Dear friends, I just want to tell you that the bill proposed by the "Paternity" faction is different from the bill that will now be voted on. It's different because we're offering a moratorium on selling land for five years. A moratorium on the application of such a procedure as emphyteussis, such as a procedure that is worse than selling land for five years — two years. And we suggest that those peasants who want to sell land for today, they cannot be made fortifications of this land, so that the state through a special institution can buy land into them and then release it into the second circle. It's about renting. I would also like to inform you that these questions about the moratorium are being considered today because there is a wave of farming, peasants, farmers living in agricultural courtyards who have simply rebelled against selling land immediately, as the government of Groysman has recommended. People are against it categorically. They're all in the agricultural land farming system today, and they're afraid to sell this land to farmers who've been processing it for decades, they're just going to take it away. And that's why I want to thank all the agrarians: because they've risen up, they've offered to hold a referendum, and if they don't, they'll come to the President, the government and parliament, that's why today they've managed to have this moratorium put in place. Both the President and the Prime Minister and the ruling majority were simply afraid of the people. And that's why I urge everyone to vote in favour of our bill. If the hand doesn't lift.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u75	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u76	If the hand doesn't raise its hand to vote in favour of this right law, then we propose to vote in favour of any one that the moratorium continues for even a year. But we have to stop this completely wrong strategic path for the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u77	Thank you. The alternative bill is 5123-1. Its authors are Igor Green, Berezuk, Burbak, Oleg Lazko, Moskalenko. The committee identified a reporter from a group of authors -- that's actually five heads of factions -- as defined by the Lalach Committee, right? Please come to the microphone. The chairman of the committee is Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u78	Everyone tells of an investor coming to the village, not an investor coming to the village, but a robber from a large road who takes the land free of charge, leaving them with bars, their children, and grandchildren. What you need for a village is cheap loans. What is needed for the village is the country's quality, emphasis, agricultural technology, sown material and fuel-oil material. What it takes for the village is a social sphere for young people to be born in the village. If the authorities tell us that we need to sell the land, let's go with the land, tell it straight, and sell the peasants, and sell Ukraine. Therefore, it is not necessary to trade in land, but it is necessary to trade products, such as in Israel, where land is not sold, but three times a year that produce is sold because there are cheap credit resources and, above all, there is an opportunity to sell its goods. And when our peasants grow produce and then they can't go anywhere with it, when this year we have 60 million tons of early grain crops, and there's no price, and the peasants are buying for three copies of that crop that they can't even cover the costs that they had for growing crops, when today you can't access big commercial networks with your products, when peasants are deprived of the ability to heal, teach their grandchildren, it's a policy aimed at destroying the village. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to support a joint, faction-compliant bill. Unfortunately, it's only a moratorium for a year, not five years. But it's better than nothing. Because if we hadn't reached it as a result of the long-standing consultations with the President, with the leaders of the parliamentary factions, if we hadn't reached a common, agreed position, there would have been no bill, and there would have been a vacchanalia since the new year. So thank you all for supporting the radical party's position on continuation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u79	The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Today, October 6, 2016, the Committee held three bills on the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land: Bill 4727 on amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code (for a moratorium on the sale of land or other forms of alienation) (Lysko, National Deputy); Bill 5123 on amendments to Chapter XX of the Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Land Code (for the protection of national interests and food security of the State by continuing the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land and the prevention of their hidden sale under the agreements of emphiteussis) (author of the National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna) and the alternative bill 5123-1 on the introduction of the chapter XX "Extra Positions" of the Agricultural Code of Constance (fortance of Other Peoples of the Lands) (fortance of the People's Republic of Croatia) and the Alternative Bill 5123-1 on the implementation of the Chapter XX "Extraves" of the Land (fortances) of the Land of Ukraine (fortance). Bill 4727 was removed from consideration by his author, national deputy Oleg Lášk. Thus, the committee considered two bills, 5123 and 5123-1. Bill 5123 provides for two key positions: the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2022 and the establishment of an exclusive right of the State to buy land. Bill 5123-1 provides for the postponement of the moratorium for one year until 1 January 2018, which will be sufficient for Parliament to complete the work on land reform. After considering and discussing these bills, the committee made the following decision. Bill 5123 by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko rejects Bill 5123-1 to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u81	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u82	Support as a foundation and as a whole as a law. I'd like a colleague to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u83	Thank you very much. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. I will give my word to all those who wish to speak, my fellow workers. I know how important and sensitive this question is. Please record. I was walking Vassil Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u84	I give you my word to Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u85	Oleg Kulinich, MP's Rebirth Group. Dear colleagues, the Earth Code clearly states that the moratorium is in effect before the Act on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Assignment becomes effective. This law is not registered in Parliament, it is not there, so it is probably more likely that we will vote on 100 percent of the political decision. As far as the land market is concerned, more than that, it's not a matter of time, because, first of all, there are no votes in Parliament right now, and the basic thing is that small and medium-sized farmers, who are supposed to be full players in this market, are not ready for today, because there is no normal state support. And it's the government that needs to think about it in order to keep this program going, not for one year, but every year. And in order to support the loss of credit, we supported the acquisition of agricultural equipment for farmers. Then the middle, small farmer could become a full player and compete with large holdings. So we should not make political decisions year after year to continue the moratorium for a year, because the continuation of the moratorium every year is just the basis for both raiding and for other things that are completely unrelated to the needs of the village. And there's probably no fear right now that the moratorium will be lifted because it's going to work, because it's not going to work, because the Land Circumstances Act doesn't work.".. So I would advise all the MP factions, the leaders of all the MP factions and groups to focus on writing a clear road map, on land legislation, where it's clear who should be a market player: whether it's foreign or residents of our country, how much land should be concentrated in one hand. And the main thing is to determine how the land is consolidated. And when we write that down, then we're not going to talk about the moratorium at all, because this necessity is going to go away. And I'd also like to address an important question that I think is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u86	30 seconds, complete. 30 seconds, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u87	An extremely important land issue is the transfer of land outside the local communities. We're talking about this for the second year, dear colleagues. We have to give a clear answer, whether we're for decentralization or for centralization. If we are in favour of decentralization, we must vote on Law 4355 and pass on the right to use the land to the local communities. And then it's a clear answer that we're really behind decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u88	Thank you. From Self-Help, Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u89	Pass the word to John Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, the moratorium can be spoken politically loudly, but it can be said silently, but it will not change the truth, unfortunately. And the truth is, we have the next one. God and fate give us 34 hectares of black people, 28 percent of the world’s stockpiles in Ukraine. And that is, indeed, the most valuable asset that our State has. But there is another truth. We have 7 million citizens who have become landowners. Of these, 1 million citizens have already died and have not exercised their right to property, this is their constitutional right. Today, 400,000 hectares have no legal receivers, that is, people do not inherit. And 40 per cent of the people who have become heirs do not live in rural areas. And it's so objective, really. And here we can ask the people who have died, and they are for the market or not for the market. And that's the toughest question. I'd still like to, yes, there is another truth. That, to date, the land market is a leaching land. About 4 to 4.5 million hectares are under control to date. The Self-Help faction will therefore vote in favour of the continuation of the moratorium. Unfortunately, we don't have to be proud of that. Because as we extend the moratorium, you and I don't change anything that we've done before. Without changing the rules of the game without changing the legislative framework, we do not change anything. And this trend, these numbers that I've been calling you, unfortunately, will continue. The situation will not improve. We therefore support this bill, which has consolidated the Hall in order to extend the moratorium for one year. Provided that we can all work together in the next six months with a package of bills, together with the Government, which will allow us to do all that was said before by all the predecessors, all the speakers. First of all, it is to give our people, Ukrainian owners an alternative and the right to choose and equal opportunities with other participants. So give them money, give them projects, give them support and technology, everything you called.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u91	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u92	And provide long-term funding. And those family farms that we legalized with you now need to be filled with substance. And yes, family farm, that's what we have to fight for together. That's what today will give, yes, and jobs. And don't forget, 80 percent of the vegetables and fruits we still produce in the private sector. That is why we, the only main reason why we are voting for the prolongation, provided that we, together with you, will produce the necessary bills to support the Ukrainian owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u93	Thank you very much. Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u94	Please pass the word to John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! You know, I'm on the Supreme Council for the first time, but I'm still as much cynicism as we do when some national MPs speak, I've never seen that before. You see, the leader of the Fatherland faction is on the air, telling us that she's struggling not to steal the land, not to sell it, they're blaming everyone, but not themselves. Look, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of June 17, 2009, signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll just say, she signed, she did! [[Applause]] Black is written in white: to establish a full market for land, especially agriculture, by 2020. It's still posted on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. So I call, you know, in the people say, "Don't confuse us into three pines, and don't lead this people astray, don't lead by the hands of the forest." Take now to vote with us for our proper bill, which also supports the "Block of Petra Poshenko" written this bill, and the Radical Party of Lachka, and the People's Front, and all the normal adequate factions in this Parliament. Because we are, indeed, not walking, not pharaohs, but doing our work for the benefit of the people in Ukraine. So you came forward today and said that it was a strategic mistake in some faction. Correct your strategic error – vote with us and you will be happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u96	Colleagues, several names were named. I'll give you my word. Let's go to the factions first, and then I'll give you my word. Please, Litwin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, "The Will of the People". I'll give it to you later, ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down because it is clear that a second bill will be passed. And it's not a political compromise here, it's just an agreement with the International Monetary Fund to inject amnesia for one year. But I'm afraid, dear colleagues, that once this decision is made, there will be other sub-nordinary bills on the right to land. And this compromise will be implemented. So you don't have to protect the people like that, but you have to look at the real things and say: first, let's vote for a year, but let's write in the Final Positions of this law that we do inventory of the land to which it belongs, because I don't want agrarian monopolies who took thousands of hectares of land, they don't pay people anything, and they give people that God will put them to sleep. You don't understand anymore, understand. The other one. Who owns 40,000 unasked pies (this is 2 million acres [2 million ha]! - who puts money in the offshore. So let us protect ourselves and talk about objective things. And the third moment. And people say, if I have an act of ownership of the land, why do you forbid me to sell it? So let's run the earth cadastres, put the market price on the ground, create a state bank, and a man has to go and hand over this land, get the money to be buried human. Let's talk about serious things seriously, not like we're here smiling about this problem. Let's vote with great disgust for this law, but let's make the right decisions that I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll give the factions to everyone first and then the lines and then the words, okay? So, Maxim Burbak, People's Front, please. Two minutes, the factions will all be the same for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we are discussing a very important issue. And what I'm saying is that the position of the People's Front is that we will support the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land under Bill 5123-1. We are definitely not in a position to have an active position in land affairs, but we want a truly broad, honest public discussion. Not a paid rally, not an ad through the Prokrem3 rooster "Inter," but, really, a public discussion. I'm a national deputy from 204 counties, this is Kelmenacki, Sokiryanski, Hotinsky Districts of the Cherniewec Region, where the main income from people is from farming. There are many hardworking agrarians who have Christian values. Don't lie to them. Because we've been reading the Cabinet of Ministers since 2009, where it's stated that the purpose of the programme is to establish a full market for land, especially agriculture, to create the conditions for lending landowners to land. Let us, then, exercise Christian values. Bill 5050 was now in the vote. Don't lie to people! They're smart. No one's selling the land, no one's giving it up. We need to discuss this. Don't fool people's heads. And answer for your tragic mistakes, for these moratoriums on land, for these IMF memorandums of discovery and for these gas agreements in 2009. For this, you will be responsible for these tragic mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u100	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Germany, then the Rebirth, Bondar. Please, yes, there will be a Beresuk. Two minutes, same to all factions for two minutes. Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the problem today is in fact already the sale of land, the latent sale of land. And this is the example of those sitting in the hall who know, go to the Vinni district, which is unknown in Ukraine, that 200 families, 200 families, I repeat, own 90 per cent of the land, land of agricultural origin. That's the problem, we're kind of shy about it. We're talking about a moratorium. What is a moratorium? It's very normal here to call it "beneficial privatization". From the legal point of view, it is latent privatization, hidden from the people. That is why the Opposition Block initiated a bill, not a moratorium, but a bill banning the sale of agricultural land. And that's an up-to-date question. What are we talking about moratoriums every year? We have the entire population of Ukraine on the hook. That's okay. What is a moratorium? It's not a ban. Read article 13-14 of the Constitution. The Ukrainian people own the land. Who's asking him how to handle it? We're preparing the market, Yatzenuk went to Poltava, says the farmer has the right to buy them. They cannot and do not have the right because the land belongs to the people under the Constitution. And we need to introduce into the Earth Code a rule that protects our citizens as landowners. That is why, once again, I will repeat that the current bill banning the sale of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u102	Thank you. Colleagues! I'll give it, ladies, I won't forget. [[B in m in s a l in]] You haven't had a performance yet? Okay, Fatherland, three minutes and a lineup, and a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u103	Okay, two minutes from Fatherland, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u104	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to thank Volodymira Litvina, who revealed the essence of the Timoshenko bill. If you read, that's the point. But frankly, do you know how different we are from Europeans? Romania is 3,800 farmers. Poland is 2 million farmers, Italy is a million farmers. 18 billion gives Poland a monetary return. Of these, 2.5 million families, almost 10,000. 10 million people in agriculture. Brazil is a million 200 family farms, not just created ones, but a nation that is constantly supporting, like this plant, 12 million employees. What about us? 14.2 billion foreign exchange, 200 largest companies. Of these, two thirds are transnational groups. Only one third are our latifundists. It's 50 people all the time, every month they get rich. 19.9 billion dollars a year to pay off VAT. And that's your answer. This is an answer to every person with the money to buy this land. Guys, don't be silly. Today you are, indeed, making a political decision with you. But there will be ground-to-ground teams tomorrow. No one with you raised the question of limiting the number of land in one legal person. Nobody asks about family farms, by the way, thanks to Self-Help. Didn't you and I pass the law? Isn't the Dust Block blocking taxes today? Didn't the Dust Block have a program to stimulate and develop family farms? Where are your programs? My laws have been passed. We gave you the site. Give programs and develop family farming. Then we'll go back to the market sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are many willing speakers. I'm just asking you right now to let us. Don't make any noise. I want us to sort out our general discussion. Colleagues, look, we've got about 10-15 speakers. We still have important bills to go on. Let's just agree on how we work. They demand, first of all, a minute away. One minute at a time. Now I'm going to list who raised their hand and figure out what we're getting out of. So, from Rebirth, Bondar, from the Will of the People, Moscalenko, in a minute. Who? Labazuk from. Two. Shinkovic from BPP. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, Beresuk, Self-Help hasn't been on the phone yet. Beresuk. Colleagues, I'm just... Colleagues, pay attention! Go ahead. There's about 20 hands in the hall. We have to follow some principle. Colleagues, we're not going to make a decision. There are factions that have no words like "self-help." There's two lines I have to give. Then, colleagues, I say a complete list. From The Will of the People, Labazuk, from Rebirth, Moscow, from Self-Help (2 minutes) to Oleg Berezuk, Laska (minutes) from Replica. Haven't you had a performance yet? Two factions have not yet occurred. Then, colleagues, now. Now, colleagues, the lineup, Julia Timoshenko. Then the Radical Party, then the Self-Help. Attention! Yeah, Timoshenko's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u106	Dear friends, I'm almost convinced that our bill, which really answers all the questions: and the development of farm households, and the five-year moratorium, certainly takes into account the worst form of land-based treatment -- it's lease-free and it's not clear how. I don't think our law will find support either because it will allow people to sell their pies to the state. I don't think they just want to sort things out. I am grateful that our opponents handed out my decision, which government I was in charge of, in 2009. I want the Groysman government to learn how to work. The program has been adopted for 11 years, and for 11 years all the priorities of the agricultural land have been outlined. And 11 years later, when the farms are up, then the introduction is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u107	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u108	a very specific, limited market for land. That's how it's supposed to work. I thank you for handing over the deputies, please. I urge you to vote in favour of our law. If not, our faction supports a moratorium, a one - year extension.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I have a situation to sort out in the hall. Dozens of those who want to speak, I have to sort them out. We still have factions that didn't have a word. I want to remind you how the discussion is going on. There's two for, two for against. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Which factions did not fall into the list, adding the word that did not fall, colleagues. Isn't that right? Is that fair? That's how we're going this way. We have two factions left without a word. It's a faction of the Radical Party and a faction of Self-Help. [[B in m in s a l in]] The word "self-help" itself? Please, Baby, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u110	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Take a look at the heated discussions that are taking place in the hall around the question of the moratorium, around the issue of the earth. I am glad that thanks to our efforts -- my distinguished colleague, Yulia Timoshenko, the leaders of the other factions -- we have brought this matter to the hall. Let the whole country see how important the issue of the earth is. We're here to discuss the bill, look at the writings we're breaking! Can you imagine what would happen in the country when the land began to be sold under current conditions? You're saying that the moratorium is for latifundists, and the sale of land is to depopulate the peasants. Because when you throw a huge amount of land into the market, it means that it doesn't have any value, and you just take it and give it up for a penny. You're talking about selling land. What about 10 million hectares of land that don't operate anywhere, that are processed, but they don't pay taxes? Therefore, it is not the land that the authorities have to sell, but the land’s inventory. So they can be processed legally. Here's your revenue for the State Budget. What does this discussion show in the hall? It points to one thing: whether or not to be Ukraine. We're for industry. We're for science. We're in IT technology. But one simple thing to remember is that Ukraine begins with a village. The Lord has given us this land. And we have no right to sell it and waste it. You mentioned that someone wanted to sell the land. We suggest that he sells to the state. And the state of auction at the highest price rents, not sells to Chinese or Arabs, because only Ukrainians should be masters of this land. And this discussion once again shows that we have to continue the moratorium and then adopt laws to make the Ukrainian peasant the real master of our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much for weight. All the factions, the groups took turns. Colleagues, let's vote, colleagues, I'm really asking you, we're going to lose an important decision. We still have it. You've already made a speech. Colleagues, attention, are co-authors, Oleg Berezuk co-author. I ask one minute and prepare to make a decision. If you'll all come into the hall, in a minute we'll move on to making a decision. The singer, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u112	Dear Mr. Head, there's a beautiful Ukrainian saying, "When you're getting laid, the poor people have their teeth pounding." There have been dozens and hundreds of such talks in this room for 25 years, and even those people have been saying for 10 years what they are saying today. The Ukrainian land is truly sacred and must be owned by man, but this man who works on this earth or is a food well must be rich, and this hall has done nothing to make this man rich. And that's why we only support the moratorium because Ukrainian peasants are not in equal conditions with those oligarchs who are using Ukrainian land today. And in order for him to be in equal conditions, you and I in this room have to adopt a law that should allow those small farms to return, so that they can buy combines, so that they can buy fertilizer, so that they can teach their children agronomy, so that they can teach their children to be zootechnics. We're today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u113	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u114	We have to adopt a law that will allow peasants today to have the money to develop, and only then, probably in 3-5 or 7 years can we talk about the land market. "You're squirming, and the poor people are cracking."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'll be the first to put forward the committee's proposal for consideration. This is a committee proposal: to adopt as a whole draft of Law 5123-1. And that's going to be the first offer. If it doesn't pass, we'll go to 5123. Please be prepared, colleagues, please come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending Chapter 10, the Transitional Positions of Ukraine's Land Code on the Protection of National Interests and Food Security of the State by continuing the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land and preventing its hidden sale under contracts. Number 5123-1, authors of 5 factions: Green, Burbak, Beresuk, Baby. Jaroslav Moskalenko. Whoever supports this bill as a basis and as a whole, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:44:47]] For 297 Decision taken, colleagues. By factions, please turn on the factions, show them. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 70, "Opposition Block" – 24, "self-help" – 19, "Fathership" – 16, "Radical Party – 18, "Party of Rebirth" – 13, "Will of the People" – 12, colleagues. I think we were able to unite the hall, make an important decision. I want to thank the factions for the joint initiative that brought the hall together. But, colleagues, I want to let you know that we have two important government bills that are really important. I'm asking everyone to focus so that we can look at them. I know there's not much time left. Please do not leave the hall and work hard. The first one is, the next one in the daytime, the colleague, the next one, is 4630. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the management of state-owned enterprises producing securities, documents and forms that require the use of special elements of protection, 4630. And the next one is about road funds. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:46:19]] For-195 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Capinus Eugenia Valeriyovich. Please, Eugene Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u116	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I would like to present to you a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the management of state-owned enterprises that produce securities, documents and forms that require the use of special elements of protection. I would like to point out that today's legislation establishes the exclusive right to produce forms of securities and documents that confirm the person of other documents protected by special signs, exclusively by the National Bank of Ukraine. Thus, the National Bank has its non-performing functions and functions that are not typical of it. In this regard, it was necessary to identify the only executive body to control the enterprises to produce the appropriate forms. Accordingly, the bill proposes to amend Ukraine's legislation accordingly, which will allow for the strengthening of powers for the management of state-owned enterprises producing the above-mentioned forms by the government through the central executive authority, which implements the state policy in the field of organization and control of the production of such forms. The adoption of the law will enable the authority to be established for the management of state-owned enterprises producing the aforementioned forms by government through the appropriate central executive authority. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u117	Thank you, colleagues. I invite you to the report. Is there a need in the report? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please record two for, two against, and please be very concise, colleagues, very concise. Please, Urban Alexander Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u118	Please give the floor to the national deputy Musak Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, this bill certainly needs to be supported, because it is actually technical, and it changes the National Bank of Ukraine to essentially the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, I would like to hear the voice of the mind on a bill that we have just voted on about a bill on a moratorium on selling land. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council has continued the moratorium on land sales on the 14th time. During this time. If there's any argument as to why the moratorium should continue, they're all the same. The first argument is that the land will be bought by large latifundists. I want to start with what, in fact, when the moratorium was introduced, there were no big agroholdings, they just started when there was a moratorium. The second position is that foreigners will also buy Ukrainian land. Yeah, well, respectable colleagues, actually, and now foreigners can buy land, because we have big companies, they're categorized in international markets. Absolutely any human -- whether Chinese or Japanese or Saudi or Qatari -- can buy shares from a Ukrainian company and essentially buy Ukrainian land. Moreover, virtually every average farmer, he records his property through offshores in one way or another. In fact, it's as if it's still Ukrainian. Foreigners are already taking part in the market in one way or another. And the third term. In fact, most of Ukraine’s history, the land was private property, private property not only with the Soviet Union. And in the Soviet Union, we didn't issue passports to peasants, and now we're essentially not letting peasants take advantage of their legal rights, which they've always had. So when we go to the constructive, we actually have to send a signal to the market that we're going to open up the land market in three years and three years from now it's just going to be a full, full market. And in this time, actually, do a test sale in each area of 50 to 100 hectares, form.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u120	Thank you. The river Andriy Alexanderovich, please. Colleagues, I ask you to be very brief. The river Andriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u121	The People's Front supports this bill 4630, and I'm asking the Ministry of Finance to give the bank money to the people. Look at how many people are standing on the street and we can't hear them, we can't see them, but they're going to walk here until we give up the money. We support this bill, 4630. And I'm asking my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u122	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Look, now we're going to vote, we've got two bills -- a road fund -- to improve the road investment mechanism. This is one of our most important ways of doing government work. That's why I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to stay in the hall. They're simple, they're just based on the next two bills. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall so we can see them, colleagues. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. First we put 4630, then we put those two. Colleagues, please come into the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing state-owned enterprises number 4630 on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please support my colleagues, we vote, please support. [[17:52:36]] For 236 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Colleagues, two bills of impeccables, I ask you very much to be there so that they can pass right now and invite another colleague into the hall. First, they're adjacent. The first 4014th draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Finance for Road Economy of Ukraine on improving the financing mechanism for the road sector. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[17:53:18]] For-189 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Korczyk Vitali Andryovich, very concisely, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u123	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, your attention is given to the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for Ukraine on improving the financing mechanism for the road sector (registration number 4414a, 15 July 2016). Among the authors of the bill are the majority of the heads of factions and groups, and only 73 national deputies. Before I go to explain the substance of the bill, let me introduce you, ladies and gentlemen, to some facts. Today, none of us have any illusions about the condition of Ukrainian highways. Existing automobiles do not meet modern technical requirements by nearly half. As a result, in the last seven years, road damage and deformities have increased by 50 percent. In recent years the level of road financing was 34 percent, and in general about 14 percent, of the minimum need. It was to solve the problems of financing, maintenance, repair, reconstruction and road construction, and the bill. It envisions changes to the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources in the creation of the State Fund in the form of a special fund for the state budget of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this legislative act provides for specific sources of funding for the road fund and its objectives. The cost of the fund will be automatically distributed on public and local roads, corresponding to 62 percent and 35 percent, and three percent on road safety. In particular, I would like to point out that the creation of a state fund is part of a legislative reform plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u124	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, please support the adoption of this bill. This will finally allow for the financing of construction work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u126	Thank you. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is invited to the co-report, and again, please be brief. Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u127	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Seventy-five national deputies were signed under the bill, and a whole series of nationalists are fit to be coauthors. I ask everyone to support this important bill, the most important issue. 35 percent of the subsidy will be channelled from the fund, from the road fund to the local authorities to the district level. And the district councils themselves, the district deputies will determine where and which of the first roads of local importance need to be repaired. The committee took a decision on the recommendations of the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 4014a of 24.06.2016 as a basis. Please support, and I don't want to waste any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u128	Thank you. Colleagues, no, who cares about two for, two against. Very concise, two for, two for against, please, colleagues. Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u129	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I address all deputies. This is a very important bill. We have to be able to finally fund the capital repairs and build 97 percent of our roads, the total length is 170,000 kilometers, all of which need to be repaired. And that's going to make it possible to eventually get the funding back to the capital road repairs. Last year, I want to remind you that the Yatsenuk government has provided more than 19 billion dollars to finance capital road repairs. This has not been the case in the last five years. Let's make it possible to finance roads from the general fund where the entire excise on imported petroleum products will go. And there's more. I can tell you that as my former minister of infrastructure, it wasn't even in my head, because at the time I had to save the budget, create an army, and send the money there. Finally, it's time to finally send money to build the main arteries of our country, the road. Please support all this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u131	Thank you. Aleksy’s River
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u132	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I give you the word Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u133	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I want to remind myself that for my little, short management history and experience -- and this is 10 years or so -- we had different models of financing the road economy. We saw times when the transport tax was going to the local budgets. We saw a period when we put a transport tax on a liter of fuel and, through a subsidy, we sent from the state budget to each territorial community for a subsidy. However, for two years now, the road industry in the subsidy has zero. So obviously we are today, the "Paternity" faction supports this bill. We had a working group set up at the Ministry, and I took part in it. They talked about what they were supposed to do not hand-distribute, how it was two years in a row, and now it's a very bad practice for both the government, and to do that, to make a bill that would become a law that would give differentiation to every territorial community, between every population, the possibility of repairing roads, both state-owned and municipal roads. Among other things, this bill provides for a very important issue that we have begun to discuss in this Parliament. It's movement safety. Because with one hand we make roads that kill our citizens. If we do not anticipate the security of movement, our citizens are likely to die. 12 people in statistics in Ukraine die on our roads in the daytime. So, Mr. President, pay attention to this. The Fatherland faction, the Radical Party faction, the Self-Help faction, amends to keep the movement from being safe. The proposed distribution was 3 percent and at least 5 percent. And in general, we vote the law as such. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u134	Thank you. Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please. I'm sorry, I'm going to be in session for 15 minutes. I'm going on with my right. Everyone, please remain seated. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u135	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head. Ukrainian roads are in a terrible state, recently published a worldwide road rating, and Ukraine ranked 134 among 138 countries. In countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Mozambique, and Ukraine, the roads are better than Ukraine. Last year, 4,000 people were killed on Ukraine’s roads and an estimated 1 million registered cars were about 500, and I stress that this is five times more than in the European Union. As far as this bill is concerned. We have great doubts that today’s authorities will be able to ensure that these funds will indeed go to the restoration of Ukrainian roads. But we also have to pay particular attention to roads in eastern Ukraine. These roads, they've never been in good shape, but in the last two and a half years, when heavy military equipment passes through them, tanks pass, you can't look at these roads without tears, not what you drive on them. In general, Ukraine needs quality, modern, and safe roads. And that's why the faction of the Opposition Block will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u136	Thank you, colleagues. There will be a closing statement in a minute, and we'll move on to the decision-making process, so I'd like everyone to come into the room. The next lady. Now, dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich is passing on the word to Victor Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously there's no point in having a discussion here about the fact that the budget can't have targeted funds with a purpose of coming and using, because the budget is a basket. And it is impossible to implement priority policies when individual types of income and expenditure are fixed by one another. It's a nonsensence for the budget. But I'll tell you something else. You have a draft State Budget Act for 2017 on your hands. I'd like to advise you that the government there provides for a special fund, but there's a slightly different procedure for its formation. And by adopting this law, I want to advise you that you're taking 30 billion dollars out of the general budget fund, the funds that are already attached to the draft budget by defence, education, medicine and so on. I want to advise you twice that by adopting this law, you will have to look for 30 billion cuts in other articles because they are already distributed by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please enter the hall, take your seats, and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please. So a bill that supports all the factions in Parliament. The minister came as a representative of the government and asked everyone to support him, and the bill was just a basis, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for Ukraine on Improving Road Finance Mechanisms, No. 4014a on the basis of colleagues on the basis. Please vote, please support, on the basis. Please vote. [[18:05:28]] For-286 Decision taken, colleagues. We still have 10 minutes, another plus 4015a. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine to improve the financing of the road sector. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. Please be supportive. [[18:06:01]] For 212 Decision taken. Please report to People's Deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovic. Report, Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. We are in a great hurry, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to be able to vote. We look forward to your understanding of this. Please be brief. Guys, don't break up for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u139	Dear colleagues! This bill is in conjunction with the previous Law 4014a. We are now voting on Bill 4015a. Please be supportive. The budget committee's decision is to support it as a basis. And I'm asking you to back me up. One more, Mr. Head. To put the two bills to the vote so that they can be prepared for the second reading after the reduced procedure. Thank you all for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m1.u140	Thank you. Colleagues who are willing to speak on it, can I bet? None. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Draft Law on Road Finance Sources of Ukraine on Improving the Road Finance Facility No. 4015a based on the Committee's proposals. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[18:07:42]] For 275 Decision taken. Yes, colleagues, the request of two bills for a reduced procedure for the second reading. Who supports the simplified procedure for the second reading of 4014a. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Nope. Who supports the review of the reduced procedure until the second reading of 4014a and 4015a, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote and support. [[18:08:23]] For 229 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're both short-circuited for second reading, both of which I called in a transcript. My colleagues, we had a very difficult emotional day, but at the same time, we had a very productive day. Thank you all for understanding, for the work you've done. And the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed, colleagues. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. I'd like to invite all my colleagues to the conference room tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. to continue our work.
