ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Time spent for a break is over. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work and the factions' secretaries of the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please. Ivanchuk Volodymyrovich, please come to the desk of the Presidium. I'd like a colleague of the deputies to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and we'll begin our work in a minute. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have to make an announcement to those who have come to the Presidency from the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But first of all, please ask your respectable colleagues to take up their jobs and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Please turn on the registration system and please register the deputies. Please register. [[16:09:29]] 336 national deputies registered. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Like I said, first of all, I'm going to read the ad. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I would like to report the arrival of the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Leonidina, as part of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška. [[Applause]] Statement by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich of the People's Deputy of Derkac. "I report that, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the MP group "The Will of the People." "Andrey the Ripper." Next. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Podobraznjak Vadim Ivanovich into the National Front. Welcome to Vadim Ivanovich. [[Applause]] May I have your attention, please? I'll read the announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the MP's faction of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenka" at its meeting on 11 December 2015 has decided to exclude from the faction of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Barn Oleg Stepanović. Next. According to the statement, I am reporting a change in the name of the interfractional parliamentary association "The Voice of the Community". From now on, this association has the All - Ukrainian Dialogue. A statement from the Ukrainian National MP, co-chaired by the interfractional parliamentary association "All-Ukrainian Dialogue" Sergey Taruta. So all the announcements that have come to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are announced and we are moving on to the agenda. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 2168. Guys, girls, let's consult with you. I propose to consider the next bill, and then to vote on both. And there and there the reporter is Ivanchuk, and for us, five to ten minutes is when the MPs will be able to enter the hall. Is there support, or is there agreement? I come out of a reasonable logic so that the bill can be adopted, not failed because of lack of discipline. Supportable, colleagues? Supported. So the next bill, 2168a, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition (to enhance the effectiveness of the system of control over economic concentrations) is a second reading and I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich, to the report. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u2	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy considered at its meeting on December 9, 2168, a bill submitted by the People's Chamber of the Birds for second reading. I would like to say that there were 21 amendments to the bill to the legislative initiative, virtually all included in part or in substance. For your consideration, the bill is proposed, and the table on the right is given to you by the committee. I would like to say that the bill increases the thresholds for obtaining the permission of the Antimonopoly Committee. And there is also a new novelty that applies. more flexible, fast and simplified procedures for obtaining a prior authorisation are introduced. The bill also provides for an average increase of 5 times in fees for applications for allowing concentration and concerted action. This is intended to compensate for the costs of considering applications that have not changed since 2002. It's scientific. The chief legal office was in the process of a bill with one such, I think, a major amendment. Law enforcement insists that the bill has the term "beneficiary owner". It will have to be taken into account in the final text of the bill in the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act, absolutely correct. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. That is why the committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u3	I told you. I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, not many amendments. We have to walk on them. So 1st amendment, Kugel, does it insist? Don't insist. Two o'clock, Lensky. Don't insist. 3rd Janicki. Don't insist. 7th, Sold. Don't insist. 9th, Dove. Don't insist. 10th, Lensky. Don't insist. 12th, Sold. Don't insist. 20th, Bird. Don't insist. 21st, Martinjak, don't insist. Thus, colleagues, almost all the amendments that were included by the committee, are taken into account. And I understand that we can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, no warning. There's a common position. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report that a vote is about to take place, and I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'll set up the alarm first. A signal vote to see how high the potential is in the hall, how strong the performance of our deputies is at a crucial time for the country. I'm asking you to come in and take up jobs. And I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition (No.2168a). Signal vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[16:19:07]] For 197 I see some deputies haven't made it. Colleagues, please come into the hall, please take your jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] I report that we are considering Bill 2168a, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition (to improve the effectiveness of the system of control over economic concentrations). I ask the honourable colleagues to enter the hall, to take up jobs, and to carry out their constitutional duty by voting. Colleagues, please come into the hall, let's go in one group and enter the hall. Dear colleagues in faction, please invite a colleague to the hall, here are our jobs. I'm voting again on the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition (No. 2168a). The vote, please vote, please vote, please vote. [[16:20:51]] For 214 Colleagues, there is full support for this bill's hall, all factions, just lack of discipline, lack of discipline. I ask you to invite colleagues and those who hear me to come to the hall, please. We've already started work. Invite your colleagues into the hall. I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we'll move on. Colleagues, please come into the hall from the towers and take your jobs, please. As long as the MPs enter the hall, Deputy Ptašnik. Turn on the microphone. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, you and I are talking so much about deregulation in this room, and it's strange to me why we're not investigating the vote right now. It's a bill that specifically applies to deregulation because it deprives small companies of the need to go to the Antimonopoly Committee for concentration permits when their activities do not in any way affect competition in the market. This bill, provided for by our Association Agreement, the Coalition Agreement, is the basis and requirement for the IMF's next tranche. We've already had a really long discussion with you. Please focus and vote, support, because this deprives companies of doing unnecessary things and ruining the committee. Let the Antimonopoly Committee deal with monopolies and investigations, not with small concentration issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u6	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have a hundred percent presence on the air, and there everyone is able to participate and everyone is able to express their position when it comes to reforms, the fight against monopolies. Sadly, there are problems with discipline when it comes to fulfilling our responsibility in the hall. And somehow most of the people who are most often on the air talking about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and saying how ineffective it is. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Now I'm going to put the vote again. I am revoting: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Economic Competition (No. 2168a). Please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[16:23:51]] For 238. The hall is ready for productive work. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition (No. 2168a) on second reading and in general. Please vote, vote. [[16:24:29]] For 248 Decision taken. And, fellow Members, I, with your permission, as we agreed, we were not enough deputies in the hall until the break. Colleagues, don't go out, colleagues. I beg you not to go out, but to enter the hall. 2431 -- there were no votes in the room, so I'm going to put the vote again. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. We've discussed it, we'll vote, if there are no votes, we'll consider other proposals. So I am voting on the draft Law (2431) to amend the legislation on the protection of economic competition regarding the determination by the Antimonopoly Committee of the size of fines for violations of economic competition legislation as amended by the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich, for the transcript. Please vote, please support, colleagues, in second reading and in general, vote. [[16:26:03]] For-174 Thank you. There are no votes under the bill. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues. One minute, please, Alexandra Kugel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u7	In any case, this bill can't be abandoned like that, it's very important. Most importantly, what I'm suggesting is that what happened here is to vote on the second reading now and to give the commission that the committee, together with the Antimonopoly Committee in the body of the law, would include the method of calculating the order in which they would refuse to impose fines and then it would be the norm of direct action, there would be no corruption component. Please vote on this second reading assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u8	Committee head Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please state the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u9	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask, we can approve as Mrs. Kugel says on second reading again, but we can simply postpone consideration of the matter in order to consult factions on that term. If there are no votes for us to adopt this bill with the amendments that have been agreed upon, in my opinion, with factions, no votes, then let's go as Mrs. Alexander says, to read again, and on the committee we'll change the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u10	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to make a second reading proposal, and I'm asking you to take your jobs so that we don't lose your bill, please prepare for the vote. Signal vote, I'll make a signal vote. And I'm voting on Bill 2431 for re-reading -- joint position, committee, and deputies. Please support the second reading of 2431. Please vote on your colleagues, vote on your vote, vote on your vote. [[16:28:34]] For 228 Thank you. This proposal has support in the hall, and I therefore put to the vote the second reading of the bill (2431) amending the legislation on the protection of economic competition to determine the size of fines for violations of economic competition legislation by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Another reading. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:29:15]] For 241 Decision taken. I suggest that the sooner we prepare, the sooner we can resubmit this important and timely bill to the Supreme Council. Next draft law (No. 2254) amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the social protection of children and support families with children. This is also a second reading. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u11	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee decided to set up a working group to prepare the bill for second reading, which included the authors of alternative bills, representatives of a number of public authorities. As a result of the fine work, all issues were dealt with, first and foremost a consensus was found with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will strengthen the social protection of children under difficult living conditions, including in the area of combat and armed conflict or internally displaced persons. Drafting a bill, which is proposed for adoption in a second reading and in general, defines the responsibilities of local executives and local self - government authorities to protect the rights of displaced children. A new form of rearing children under difficult living conditions has been introduced in a foster home that is suited to a better European experience. In all, 77 amendments and proposals were made to the bill from the legislators. The committee proposes to include 40 amendments, 19 amendments to reject and partially take 18 amendments into account. At the same time, on January 13, this year, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons, which amend the same articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons as our bill. For the purpose of aligning the bill with the current drafting of the bill, an additional comparative table has been presented by the committee, and is now distributed to you in the hall, which provides editorial details for the drafting of the bill, prepared for the second reading and corresponding to pages 20 and 34 of the basic table. Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. The first amendment to the supplementary table corresponds to 28 amendments to the master table and the last 17 amendments to the supplementary table correspond to 41 amendments to the master table. Please support a bill designed to protect our children and accept it on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u12	Thank you very much. So, your honorary colleagues, there's been a lot of amendments, and we're going to have to go through all these amendments and hear the MPs' opinion. Therefore, the representative of the Committee, Mikola Romanovic, please remain in the rostrum to comment on the amendments for which the vote will be stressed. Most of the amendments are taken into account, almost all the amendments are included, I see in the bill. 14th, Ship, overruled. Does the Arrow insist on voting? Don't insist. 15th, Pawel. Is Pauline Urged? No, it doesn't. The committee seems to have worked well, since in fact all the amendments are taken into account. Colleagues, all the amendments that were made by the people’s deputies to the committee, were taken into account. This reflects the quality and quality of the committee’s work. Only one amendment insists on John Krulko. The position he's going to make is consistent with the committee. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to John Krulkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u13	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill. But I'd like us to make one very important amendment, now that we agree with the committee, that will actually solve the problem of pay and work for foster parents. Paragraph 7 of article 252 of the Family Code should be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The patronage educator is assigned to the employment contract to the budgetary institution of social protection of the population by definition of the local public administration or the local council”. With this amendment, the bill is proposed to vote in general, and this is a very good bill that really protects what is happening in crisis situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Mikola Romanovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u15	The committee agrees with this amendment to Deputy Krulka and we agree. And please take her into account when voting under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u16	Thank you. One more minute, please, Chamberlain. Please. Yes, I said turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! I'm very much asking the entire session room to support this bill for the fourth time, but unfortunately, it's only the first time in the second reading of the vote. This is a very necessary bill to protect the social rights of our children. I ask all factions to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There will now be a vote for an important bill, I ask you to go into the hall and take jobs, it's not conflict, it's supported by all factions, all we need is discipline in the hall and the responsibility of the Ukrainian people's deputies. First of all, I'm going to put on a largely signal vote, and I'm going to ask you to prepare for the vote. Thus, a signal vote in favour of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Enhancing Child Welfare and Support for Families with Children (No. 2254). Please take part in the vote, please vote. Please give me a signal vote. [[16:37:19]] For 249 High potential. And I ask everyone to prepare for a decisive vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children (No. 2254) on second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:38:00]] For 254 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, the rapporteur of Veličkovic Mikola Romanović and all the authors of the amendments. Welcome. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this way, we have passed all the bills that we have foreshadowed in our second reading. Most of them were accepted, and that was a success. Now let's move on to the next chapter. So from the second reading, let's go back to the first reading. The next chapter of our agenda -- I ask the deputies to prepare for work -- is our next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Is there a Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich? Is there, yes, in the hall? Bill 3312 and there is a request for us to consider the bill in short procedure -- 3312. I'm asking you to support the study of the educational bill by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[16:40:51]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich of Spiowakowski, a reporter on this subject. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u19	I would like to introduce Bill 3312, which should set the last point in the Rudimentary Soviet system, when the graduates of the colleges were to work as slaves after the summit. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that many issues have been resolved through the Higher Education Act, but this standard for students in medical universities, it remains. So I would like to support this bill, which will solve the whole problem of changing the behavior of the main subjects, these are students, these are universities, and these are the cities where these students will work. Because we need to understand that slavery makes it impossible for our students to resolve the issue of distribution. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, to vote for it, and to put the last dot in the history of the Soviet system that supported the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u20	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Education and Science has considered the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act (Employment of Graduates) to number 3312 and asks to be accepted as a basis. Thus, we uphold the fundamental standard of free choice of employment, which is the same inherent natural right of man as the right to life, or the right to freedom, or the right to inviolability. However, in this bill -- and this is stated in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office -- there are a number of legal norms that we need to further develop, as well as certain mechanisms and safeguards, how we can solve the human resources problem in those places, for example, in the field obstetrics in the villages, in small population areas where we need medical personnel. Whether this should be an incentive and a supplement for these young workers who will work there, or whether it should be some contractual terms of work, these insurers should also be included in the bill. So we ask you to vote for this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Will we support the committee? We're voting, aren't we? Then I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a need to speak. One man, then we give one man our word. Please, Igor Shurma, one minute. I'm asking you, raise your hand, I'll tell you. Excuse me. Please stop, there is a need to discuss the hall. And I'm asking you to sign two for, two against. Colleagues, please register. Thank you. Destroyer, please turn on the microphone. Destroyer doesn't realize his legal right to speak, and that's why I'm handing over the word to Lunchenko Valeriyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u24	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look very carefully at this bill, because today we really need to create a level playing field for graduates of higher medical schools and thus encourage them on the one hand to find a better place to work, and on the other hand to encourage local self-government authorities to create the necessary conditions to do their work. We know very well that for many medical graduates, the first job is like a sort of cabala, where there is no place to live, where there is no decent pay, where there is no proper conditions for medical activity. So the position of our faction to support this bill and extend its hand to support our future doctors, reliable medical specialists in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u26	Please pass the word to your colleague Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u27	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. The bill proposes to amend the Higher Education Act. More recently, back in 2014, we or our predecessors, the national deputies, passed a very beautiful law that regulates the relationship in the field of higher education. However, we never gave up the feudal principle that requires compulsory work by those graduates who have completed higher education at the expense of either the state budget or the local budgets. I mean, even after the adoption of the law, there was something about the exclusive right of graduates of higher health schools to work their way from the Ministry. Regrettably, as a result, the insured young doctors stayed in the capital city, where they had wealth. But at the same time, we're also talking about that if you change this standard, because there are graduates who have housing, they can go to district hospitals, they can come to the village, but they're somehow sent to other cities. The point is also that we have to bring standards to the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 43 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that the exclusive right to work, the opportunity to earn a living by the work he freely chooses or freely accepts. If we want to live in a civilized European country, we need to abide by the rules of the laws, especially the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, we have many references from graduates who graduate from higher education institutions in the health care system and who cannot go to work where they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u28	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u29	where they have the opportunity not to rent an apartment or anything, but they have their own opportunities and housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u30	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Deputy Gusak Vladimir Georgievovich, I understand, is passing on Shurmi Igor. Please turn on Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u31	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, it is always very important that a bill should appear at the right time in society. The adoption of today’s bill also balances the human resources problem and the human resources policy that is currently in the health care system. What are we talking about? Today, the state spends money on student training. The government has information to direct experts to. If people today want to choose their own profession and want to go to work where they want to go, they have to pay for it themselves. If the state invests resources in a young specialist, at least he should go to work where he needs to. Today, people who do not have a bearing on practical health care are telling us this standard. Did you know that today 30 percent of the jobs in the countryside are vacant? You go to people today and tell them, you know, we give young professionals the right not to go to you. They'll all want to be surgeons, neurosurgeons, obstetrician gynecologists tomorrow, they'll all want to work in cities. And there's going to be talk about creating conditions for them. This bill cannot be adopted in isolation from the system of reforming the entire health system. It's just not in time today, because those vacant positions in the district centers, in the villages, not only those that apply to doctors, but also to the middle and junior medical staff, are going to make it impossible for those people to help. There will be no one, and there will never be anywhere at work, because conditions are different from urban and district conditions. Therefore, this bill cannot be adopted today until it is gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u32	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u33	Thus, the bill cannot even be adopted as a basis until the Ministry proposes a reform of the health system, including education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion and we can proceed to the vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm going to set up a signal to check the room's mobility. So a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (number 3312) as a basis. Signal vote. Please vote 3313, please. [[16:52:30.]] For 203 Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and I see that not everyone has been able to vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote. Please come into the hall. Once again, I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Please give the signal vote, please vote 3312. We're voting on our colleagues, please. [[16:53:38]] For 212 It's better now, dear fellows. I can't tell if there's a warning or just a lack of discipline. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall. As the MPs come in, please turn on Deputy Jarinitch's microphone for a moment to explain the position of the Ministry. And I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Microphone is Deputy Jarinich, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I am certainly asking for the support of Bill 3312 for the cancellation of forced labour. I would like to remind you that this form of cooperation, in paws, graduates and the state, remains in the medical field alone. In order to maintain our human potential, we need to do what we need to do, not by force, but by creating the necessary conditions. I am also informed that I have collected 45 signatures of the National Deputies under the Constitutional Court on the conformity of the Constitution 902 of the CMU, which in fact approved compulsory work by medical graduates. And finally, I want to say that I know that the MoH of Ukraine has a common position with us and that our joint task is now, once we've adopted this bill, to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u36	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, on the basis of the bill, have concluded the discussion. I'll put it to the vote again. I stress once again, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. And I'm re-voting the bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act 3312 as a basis. Signal vote. Please take part in the vote, please vote. Please. [[16:56:04]] For 215
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u37	The factions. Dear colleagues, let's consult, I think it's still important in the first reading to adopt this law and continue to work on it. Please give me a minute. Listen to the author, one minute, Spiowakovsky, please. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u38	Dear friends! He who desires to leave slavery is the one who wants to leave slavery, who is now voting against it. Think about it. If a doctor is forced to drive there, or if he is forced to leave at $300, does he sign and leave? What are you doing? Are you fighting corruption? So fight corruption, be kind, give people the opportunity to get what they want. They work for you through taxes, they drive and work. You can't! Ukraine, a European state, you leave the rule that makes it possible to establish slavery that came from Soviet power. We will see who wants to leave slavery to the students of Ukraine. Let every student look at these deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! Please, let's stop. It was the author’s closing statement. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us determine by vote. Please take your seats. 3312. The issue is the adoption of this law as a basis. Ready to vote? Let's do it again, based on the signal vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:58:32]] For 216 Dear colleagues! So here's the proposition: let's re-read it. Alexander Volodymyrovich, for the first time again, you're going to prepare him again, you're going to discuss him and you're going to make the right decision, okay? Come on, fellows, in. We're going back. For one more time? Let's do it again! Colleagues, please repeat first, please re-train the committee. Please vote. Signal, repeat first, please support, vote. Send the committee to read again, prepare, let's support. Please, colleagues, please back up. Please support: one more time. [[16:59:34]] For 241 Thank you, the decision has been made. I'm asking: please work closely with your colleagues, I see many have questions. Colleagues, please, so that we can come to the Supreme Council Hall in agreement, so that we don't repeat the same arguments in terms of pros or cons. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we had one draft law, and I'd like to ask everyone to stay in their seats, 2461, for special services, if you remember, those that came with the President's proposals. There is a proposal to enact this law as a whole, taking into account the President's proposals, which is complete. A president who is fully in line with the decision of the committee. This is about special services, not increasing their numbers, but leaving numbers at the level of last year. So it's a completely objective reality that I think we can support. Is there no objection? Colleagues! 2461 – taking into account the President's proposals. On a special note, there were not enough voices at the morning meeting. Ready? Please, 2461 with the President's proposals in line with the Committee's decision on numbers. This amendment refers to the number of reservations. I'm asking you to support me. We're voting 2461. Vote please, colleagues. Vote alert, please. Wait a minute, let's take a look at this. Vote alert, please. [[17:01:44]] For 233 Let's do it again. We vote in favour of this law according to my proposal, which I have announced under the transcript. Vote, please. With the President's proposals. 2461. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:02:05]] For 244 The law's been passed. The previous law was not a signal vote that we sent for the rereading of the first reading. Do I get it right? Let's do it again. That wasn't a signal. Colleagues, 3312, about education. Let's talk again about higher education. For the re-reading of the committee, we just voted it out. To re-read the committee's first reading. But let me make it clear that this is not a signal vote. We'll back it up again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Correction. The offer was, again, the first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! But it was a signal vote. It's time to repeat. Please. Return to the committee for re-reading, 3312. Vote. One more time, to the committee. Vote. Because that was a signal vote. Please be supportive. All of it. Again. [[17:03:22]] For 241 Almost the same result. Thank you, Your Honor. We approved the President's proposal. Now, dear fellows, we have the law of 3,700. We voted for him in the first half of the day. It is signed by five faction leaders. There's an offer by the faction leaders, the drafters, to put it in the agenda now for the decision-making process, 3700. [[B in m in s a l in]] To be signed by this law. The authors are Yuri Lucenko, Berezuk Oleg, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, Burbak Maxim, Kuprienko and Lasko, 3,700. Ready? Ready, colleagues? 3700, inclusion in the agenda of the day session and decision-making. Vote? Please, 3700 votes. [[17:04:58]] For 201 None. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a bill of the Law (registration number 3388) that's the law we voted for (restraint) energy fund. We also considered it, discussed it, and there were not enough voices in the signal vote. I would like to invite you now to the report of Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich. Do we have Gordjeev, Andrew Gordjeev? 3388 - Draft Law on Change (for the Stability (Reserve) Energy Fund) He was discussed, this bill. Listen carefully. Please, Gordyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, this bill has already been reported in this room, and the point is that the government is asking us to support its initiative to create an energy stabilization fund. This is about $700 million that the World Bank will provide to the government of Ukraine for the purchase of natural gas, but it's not in Russia, it's in Europe called reverse gas. In order for this to happen, we need to issue State guarantees. So this is about getting the bill now to approve our government's agreement to buy gas through state guarantees in Europe, not in the aggressor countries in Russia. The Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 3388 to the Supreme Council to adopt and entrust the Committee on Budget Issues with the task of redrafting the bill for the second reading under the reduced procedure. However, if there are no objections to national MPs, the bill can be supported in general as a law, provided that the proposed new code is limited to 1 January 2017, precisely with such a treatise that this stabilisation fund and these State guarantees will operate by the end of this year. I think it'll be fair and timely, because today we have to solve this. If we accept two readings, the spring will come. Thank you all for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, you've heard that the creation of a stability fund, guarantees to the World Bank so that we can buy, advance the purchase of gas for Ukraine. So these are completely transparent procedures. There is a proposal to adopt this law now as a basis, as discussed earlier, and to further develop it for second reading. I'm asking everyone. Based on the base. On the basis and in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] With a link to January 1, 2017, it is understandable. Victor Michael Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u42	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, first of all, I want to say that the good refinement that Andrew Gordjeev said about the time-frame limit for one year. Secondly, this law has nothing to do with the second reading: either we accept it or we don't accept it. This is about guarantees already in place in the 2016 budget. So we need to determine whether we accept or not to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think one more argument has been added that we can consider this issue, because including these guarantees are provided by the State Budget Act 2016. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a basis and as a whole with the amendment announced by Andrew Gordjeev, which is a temporary restriction. These are the World Bank guarantees that are budgeted to buy gas abroad but in the West. Please support, Your Honor, 3388 as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of Andrija Gordjeev. Let's make a signal vote so we don't lose the law. Please support me, colleagues, please. 700. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Buy gas, have to fund first. Please be supportive. This is the purchase of gas from Europe. [[17:09:43]] For-200 Dear colleagues, 200 votes. I just think we might have enough possibilities. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give me a minute, Oleg Lazko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, is about the country's energy security, so that we don't depend on Russia for gas in order to be able to buy much cheaper gas in European countries. And so this law allows us to get, even closer to the goal, to be energy independent of Russia, especially in today's conditions. So I am addressing all the members of the Parliament of Patriots who are concerned about Ukraine's energy independence, about its independence from the Russian aggressor. We must vote on this law. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put him to the vote again. A key law in the country's energy security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize the point. We're in the West buying gas for Ukraine, and in order to buy it, we have to pay the money. The World Bank gives us the guarantees that are provided by the 16th year budget project, which we're counting on for this gas, that's all. So this is a very important question. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, colleagues. Signal 3388, please vote and please support, colleagues, please vote with the amendment of Gordjeev. Vote, please, on the basis and in general, please support, vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:11:42]] For 229 Thank you. And now on the basis of the whole offer of Gordjeev. Vote please, colleagues. We're not leaving, we're voting. Please support 3388. We vote on the basis and generally with the proposal of Gordjeev. Please be supportive. [[17:12:03]] For 221 Fellows, let's go back to the debate. Is there a misunderstanding? Let's go back to this question -- 3388. Vote, Your Honor, for the return of 3388. Please be supportive. Please support the return. [[17:12:37]] For 233 It's 233 -- we're back -- we're talking about the basis and the whole adoption of this law, where the World Bank can give us guarantees for 700 million gas purchases in the West. I stress that this is a 2016 budgeted technical decision, but important. Please be supportive. Vote? 3388 as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of Gordjeev. Let's back up, colleagues, please. Vote. [[17:13:22]] For 228 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 2319a, 2319a-d is the question of privatization. We also considered that everyone was ready to vote for him. 2319a. First deputy head of the holding fund, please. Inform and then Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u46	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For the 10th time, a bill is being tabled to amend the privatisation approach in 2016. During the stormy discussions, there were many suggestions and comments from the MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and its leadership extended its hand of assistance. There's a revised bill of 2319 a state budget, it's made up of four novels. The first novel. This is to prohibit the involvement in privatization of companies that have a bearing on the aggressor country. The other one. The requirement for full disclosure of participants in privatization processes. Third. Failure to dissipate stock packages in the privatization process by purchasing a standard for the mandatory sale of 50 percent on stock exchanges. And finally. For strategically important enterprises, it is possible to privatize with the participation of advisers. Counselors take part in competitive principles according to a procedure determined by the government. Period. A request for support. This bill brings us up to the international standards of privatization. Finally. Today, the head of the State Property Fund has a birthday. Please, let's give him a present. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u47	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Please, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u48	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, a moment of your attention. I would like to inform you that the committee has decided to take into account all the proposals made by the national MPs that were made during the discussion of the bill. We worked on this bill through amendments and clarifications and registered 2319a-d, an updated parliamentary bill on the committee. It clarified the position regarding the non-privatisation of buyers from the aggressor country. From which aggressor country, legal, natural persons associated with whom sanctions have been applied. It's improved in the amended bill on disclosure of customer information that can be controlled by the final beneficiary, the owner-controller who has a bearing on the country of the aggressor, or is subject to certain sanctions. Questions were also being developed regarding the involvement of the privatisation process in the competitive guidelines of advisors in preparing for the sale of a package of shares of any privatization object. As the National Deputies have proposed, they have left the law that is now in force -- the Law on Privatization of State Property and the Act on Participation in Competitive Principles of Counselors to Prepare for Privatization and Selling Only Objects of Group "H" as People's Deputies Wanted. For the purpose of the budget economy, it is envisaged that payments of services may be made on the basis of a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, both at the expense of the state budget and at the expense of international organizations or other sources not prohibited by legislation. In order to avoid lower prices for privatization objects, rules on mandatory offers for sale on stock markets of a 5 - 10 - percent stock shareholding company package were excluded. The Committee on Economic Policy is asking you to support a working one, just with the letter "d", the bill on the committee, in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u49	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. My colleagues, I want to remind you that when we looked at this draft law and announced it, more specifically, we discussed it, all the factions of the coalition, including, voted in favour of this draft law, virtually everyone. So there is now a proposal to go back to voting for this bill. Have all the questions been settled there, as I understand it, in the law? Please take all your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u50	Dear fellow national MPs! Now the government is offering us some changes to legislation that open the door to privatization. But the perfectly healthy position of Parliament is that, honourable government officials, well, why don't you give us a presentation for 10 minutes and show us what you want to do eventually with these tools? What is the Government's comprehensive approach to government ownership, since privatization is just one of the tools? What are the industries that you plan to sell with these tools? Why is this reasonable? Compare this with the experience of other countries, Germany, and others where the share of government property is higher than in Ukraine. Now is not the time to waste government property, now is the time to find effective tools to control government property, to fill the budget, to improve governance. And what needs to be privatized, so let's privatize, just show the whole plan and the expertise first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Victor Michael Pinzenic, please. And we're done, we've already had a discussion on this. Please turn on Victor Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u52	. The previous colleague, there's a reason, only he has no relation to the law. Nothing prevents the government from privatizing now. If you think that the non-admission of the law stops privatization, that's not the case. But a valid law requires the sale of 5 or 10 percent of the stock market, in a market that is not available in Ukraine, it is not possible to sell on the stock market. This means that there is a price distortion; there is a low price for selling the final object at a low price. Therefore, the removal of this standard is absolutely correct because it allows for the sale of a complete object. The package in Ukraine doesn't mean 5-10 percent, even if of this norm, it has to be voted for, but the second norm is very principle. The norm that relates to participation in the Ukrainian privatization of the resident of the aggressor country. For the sake of these two standards, all decent deputies should vote in favour of this law. Please vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u53	Thank you, Your Honor, objectively, for this law is needed and it will ensure the proper level of publicity and transparency of all processes, including what Victor Mikhailovich said today from the rostrum. So I'd like everyone to take their seats right now and take a responsible approach to this question. I emphasize that we voted 216-220 votes, all the factions of the coalition voted for him, not enough votes. But we need to be able to build completely transparent mechanisms today. So I would like to ask everyone to support this bill, which has already been discussed on more than one occasion in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. So 2319a-d, the one who has been widely discussed with the people's deputies and the committees, ask for a single vote. Vote please, colleagues, alert. Please vote, 2319a, please support. Signal, 2319a-d, please support, colleagues. [[17:23:02]] For 206 206 votes, colleagues, please. Who has the potential? I've heard things say there's potential. Use your potential, please. You voted 20, 2319a-d for the basis, the signal vote, right. On the basis of the signal vote, I said so. 2319a-d as a base, signal. Please, let's vote. [[17:23:55]] For 213 Fellows, let's take another look at the factions. Again, colleagues, 2319a-d. This is about signal voting as a basis. Please take your seats all the factions voted, please support 2319a-d as a basis. Vote. Please hold the alarm. Please back up, let's back up, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:24:58]] For 218. Well, that's better. Please take your seats, I see. One minute, now to the MPs. Colleagues, once again, I'm putting forward a motion for a 2319-a bill on the basis of a proposal based on a signal vote. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Well, a minute. The MPs are coming in. Please, colleagues, 2319 a per base, signal. 2319a-d, based on the signal vote, please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:26:24]] For 217 Everyone votes and there's not enough votes. Well, almost everyone. 217 – good. Let's move on. Draft Law. draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). National deputies: Rent, Zlatchuk, Leschenko, Sumar, Laszko, Heroshenko. This is question 3465. Please, who will inform? Mustafa Najem, 3465, inevitability of punishment. Next. 30. 3465 — The Inevitability of Punishment 3048 is a draft law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (for reasons for granting temporary residence permits to representatives of foreign media). Valérie Paccan. We've already discussed this, 3048. Please, Valérie. Valérie Paccan, please 3048.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u54	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We've already discussed it, 3048, it's like before. Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill, we made a decision, we just didn't have enough votes. I'm asking you to support this bill in order for it to be now, to become a legitimate force. I'd like to support you. The law is spoken, all the details, all those who wanted to speak, have already spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u55	3048, colleagues. Please, Victoria Sumar, please. Please take all your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u56	My colleagues, we really discussed this bill. He worked in the Cabinet of Ministers along with representatives of the media. The thing is, now they have to re-enter the territory of Ukraine every year, and people come here for a year, for two, for three. It makes them uncomfortable, they have to keep coming home every six months, and it's really going to make it really much easier for them. If we want to increase Ukraine's information presence in the world, it's obvious that we should support this bill in order to make it easier here to establish correspondents so that we can actually be representatives of Western media. For us, this is really important now in this period of time. Request: Support this bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u57	Thank you. Colleagues, you've heard. Colleagues, 3048, please, with regard to temporary residence, temporary residence permits by representatives of foreign media. There is a committee proposal that it may be accepted as a whole. Colleagues, signal vote: 3048 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:30:59]] For 218. I think we can vote. All you have to do is take your seats, colleagues. 3048 — Draft Law (for reasons for issuing temporary residence permits for foreign media representatives), 3048, worked on the committee accordingly. The committee decided to recommend the draft law as a whole. 3048, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:31:46]] For 216 Dear colleagues, I'd like to be careful. Let's go back to this law. Please take your seats. Let's go back to the consideration. If there is a question, we will discuss it. 3048. Are you ready to go back? Please be supportive. I understand that all journalists support this bill. Is it true? Please, colleagues, let's support the return of 3048 so we don't lose the law. Please come back, 3048. Returning, please support, colleagues. Let's support it. Let's support it. This is for the return. [[17:32:50]] For 216 Then let's support the re-reading. Victoria Sumar, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u58	There is nothing to work on in the first reading. We have to move it to Thursday, and vote when the people are in the hall, Vladimir Borisovich. Because we have the national MPs with great willingness to go, let's interview Reuters, BBC, Voice of America, Deutsche Welle, because it's all over the world then. We don't have a vote in the room. We come to the interview much more early than the job, if you'll excuse me. So on Thursday, he was offered to vote in the hall. There seems to be no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u59	Thank you. Let’s see who we enjoy giving interviews to foreign media. Colleagues, let's go back, I'm asking all the MPs, groups, non-faction deputies to support this initiative important and to return to the consideration of this law. Colleagues, it's a question of supporting the work of foreign media journalists, our journalists all support it. Why Be Opposed? There is no rational explanation. Colleagues, let's go back to 3048. Ready? Ready? Come on, let's go back. Journalists don't have any political coloring, so, colleagues, regardless of parties and colors, please support. Let's vote back to 3048. Let's support it. [[17:35:22]] For 228 Is there any point in voting him in general right now? Will you support me? Let's put the signal on the ground as a whole. 3048 alert, everyone who's back, well, I think they can support journalists. Let's vote, let's support. 3048 on a base, a signal vote, a vote, please. [[17:36:00]] For 231 Well, that's a different matter, 231. We vote on the basis, and in general, we vote, please vote. It was a signal. Please support, vote, vote. [[17:36:21]] For 234 234. Thank you to all colleagues for supporting this bill. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 63, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 20, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 9, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the People" – 8, non-factional MPs – 23. Thank you. Let's move on. 1403, please, Maxim Chicken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for free transfer to power and use of confiscated and non-economic means of transport). There is an offer to consider it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! A very short and very necessary bill. This project refers to the exemption from the value added tax and excise duty on free transfer to military vehicles, cars that have become state-owned. What kind of means of transport are we talking about? These are confiscated, found, recognized as landless, for which the owner did not turn to the end of the custody period, as well as those who, on the right of inheritance or on other legal grounds, went to state property. According to the State Fiscal Service, in the early part of 2015, the number of confiscated and unconsolidated means of transport that had been transferred to the state’s property accounted for more than 3,000 units. And these units, this technology can't be implemented because of the high level of tax burden. Because in the case of excise duty and value added taxes, the price of such means of transport becomes uncompetitive in relation to the price of similar means of transport in the second market in Ukraine. The adoption of this law will not allow these vehicles to rustle on the playgrounds and at the same time improve the material and technical base of our military formation. This project is supported by the Government. He is also supported by the committee. Taking into account the relevance of this problem, taking into account the position of the authors, factions and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we propose that this bill be adopted as a whole as a law of Ukraine, and to this end, we ask that we consider such an editorial amendment (for the transcript). So from the second paragraph of section 1 of the bill and the words and figures "which are accounted for as of 1 January 2015" delete. So we're subtracting the time limit for decisions to be made regarding the recognition of means of transport as non-equity, confiscated or otherwise transferred to the State. In addition, we ask that the Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct a technical and legal process of the law we have adopted. Thank you and I would like to support a short but very important farm law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have heard information about this law in 1403. We've discussed it before, and now there's a proposal in line with the committee's decision, based on a total of 1,403 with committee rights. Please, I'm going to put this motion to a vote now. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Don't go out there, just go in the hall. So I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (No. 1403). Signal vote. Please vote. [[17:40:56]] For 193 Dear colleagues, there is no agreement in the hall of unity under this bill. Let's try the next one. 2060s. It's a bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a proposal to try 1403 and the authors believe that "based" can unite the hall. Let's try it with a signal vote, Mr. Taras. And if the signal shows up, we vote. No, let's move on. Do you have a deal? So there's a proposal to redraft the bill and just accept it as a basis. Please support this proposal and still, a signal vote. Thus, a signal vote, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (1403). Please vote. [[17:42:11]] For 205 There are no votes on the ground, Mr. Taras. Let's go to the next 2060a bill -- this is the draft of the Act on the Economic Stability of the National Stock Exchange Society Black Mornaftegas in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. Responsible is Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievicz. And I'm asking you to report and remind me of the essence of the law. Nasalek will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u63	A few words, dear friends. I want to remind you that BlackMornaftegas is a 100 percent company that belongs to the state. And this bill doesn't apply as much to Blackmorenephtogas itself as it does to save the assets of Blackmorenephtogas. So BlackMornaftegas can't do the current work of returning assets abroad today, because it can't pay for any of the services that have happened. On the one hand, the annexed Crimea has all the assets of BlackMornaphtogas. On the other hand, since January 1, 2014, the company has been re-registered in Kiev and there is one management left of Black Mornaphtogas. Therefore, the failure to take financial stability measures will lead to the compulsory liquidation of society under part three of article 155 of the Ukrainian Civil Code for reasons of inadequacy with regard to the size of its own capital. As a result, it may be impossible to protect Ukraine’s property interests abroad, including those of the United States. Whether any steps have been taken, let's say, the leadership and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine have made assets of BlackMornaftogaz included in Ukraine's claim programme to Russia included in the asset recovery programme. I remember that in the previous report that I conducted under this law, someone from Liberty said about two ships belonging to the Black Mornaphtogas. Let me tell you, one of the courts is arrested by the Mexican prosecutor's office and is in Mexico, the other is arrested by the Brazilian prosecutor's office and is in Brazil. So if we don't clear up, if we don't spread this problem, we're going to get rid of property that's worth over 12 billion dollars. The committee supports, I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to present you in general on a day-to-day basis. We now have two more bills that have been discussed, and then there is a very important educational bill. That's why I'd like to focus right now, get into the hall, 15 minutes of work. I would ask everyone to concentrate as much as possible and invest 15 minutes in the legislative work that is directly our responsibility. And I will no longer put to the vote those laws that unite the halls, we will put them in a place that does not unite, no votes, we will postpone, but I am asking for discipline in the hall. I ask the deputies to come into the hall, the factions' heads to invite the deputies into the hall and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to announce that we have been working and voting for 15 minutes. So now Nasalek has reminded us of the 2060s bill and if he has no objection, his room supports it. And I'm voting on the draft bill on the measures of economic stability of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine of 2060a. Signal vote, Your Honor, please vote, please take part in the vote. 2060s signal vote, please. [[17:46:25]] For 197 The decision is not made. There are no votes under the bill in the hall. We move on to 2169a: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed for the implementation of state information policy. I ask the chairman of the committee of Sümar Victoria Petrovna to remind me of the substance and content of the bill. Please, Victoria Sumar. Victoria Sumar will speak from the rostrum, so turn on the microphone in the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u65	Colleagues, in this case, are talking about a completely technical bill developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because you and I have approved the Procurement Act, and there is, in particular, no possibility of doing so in relation to government programs. And this is the introduction, in fact, of other Ukrainian Laws to the rules of the Procurement Act, according to a new standard that Ukraine has adopted, in fact, as a commitment to international organizations. Thus, a technical bill that, according to this law, amends a number of other information bills. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy considered and supported him. But there is a note in the context of the Publishing Law with the proposal to delete the law. Yes, until, in fact, we go into action, how do we not lose the Ukrainian Book program and other programs that are being implemented today by the State Committee on Television and Radio? There is a proposal to adopt with the deletion of the rules of the Law on Publishing and Bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ten minutes again, please work you out of the hall, please come into the hall, take your seats, and I'll put you to a 2169th vote, a signal vote. He's in no conflict with this amendment that Victoria Sumar has announced for the transcript I'm asking you to take part in the vote and vote. The signal vote is 2169a. Please vote. [[17:49:15.]] For-200 Mrs. Victoria, I'd like a moment to comment. Victoria Sumar, please. Turn on Victoria Sumar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u67	I get it, colleagues, that there are no just people in the room, because once again, there can be no fundamental remarks to this bill. We have to make changes that are logical, because now we can't change the rules that we have to work, given that the Public Procurement Act has become effective. So it's absurd, because now we don't have these 26 votes, we're conducting legislation in a state of absurdity. Because one law forbids, and the other allows, and in this case, technical things we just have to approve, let's move maybe to four.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u68	Mrs. Victoria, I'll answer Nasalika right away. These bills we don't just reject this signal vote, if it doesn't take most of them I'll put it again on the signal vote, we'll put them on Thursday as discussed earlier when there are votes, but it's also a risk as it will be on Thursday. And so it would be more right now to mobilize and vote. So I ask the deputies once again to come into the hall, now not to discuss Mr. Nasalik, not to discuss it, now to vote. Please come into the hall, and I'm putting a 2169a vote on it again -- an important law that has no objection. Signal vote, please vote 2169a - signal vote, vote. [[17:51:18]] For 212 I have this feeling that if we were to concentrate right now, we would vote. I very much ask the deputies to enter the hall, and those who have just left will return to the hall. And while the MPs return, Nasalika is one minute. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We're missing literally a few votes. Please come to the hall. Nasalik, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u69	Dear friends and respectable colleagues! In the struggle for Ukrainian democracy, for the approval of the laws of the faction of members of the Supreme Council until the end of the session, they lost between 30 and 50 percent of their number. I would like to ask you very much not to make a general comedy further so that Mr. Andrew puts to the vote the question of alert and who is present in the room today. And finally they published in the media who are walking and who, I'm sorry, is nodding in their noses!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u70	Thank you. That's why I'm only betting on the vote. And I would ask everyone on the factions to have a serious conversation about discipline while visiting the hall. I'm going to re-vote. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There is no objection to this bill. All I'm asking is for you to come into the hall and take your seats. I ask you to vote and continue the discussion. I'm re-voting Bill 2169a. Please vote, 2169a. Please vote, take part in the vote. Please. [[17:53:20]] For 218. Not enough voices. Dear colleagues, I'll make another attempt with your permission. The head of the Greenwich Committee approached, saying that there was an extremely important educational bill. Its consideration will take literally five minutes; it will be completely undisturbed. But perhaps even if we do so, we can unify the hall and make a fine, positive conclusion to this day. Is there agreement? He's the basis for the day's work. I'm asking you to wait another five minutes. I would like to support this proposal: to consider this bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on free provision of textbooks for pupils of general educational institutions and teachers. He does not foresee a postponement; he must be accepted today. I ask you to be in the hall, please concentrate and support the proposal: consider it as a reduced procedure, 1857, support the simplified procedure, 1857, please vote in favour of the shortened procedure, the educational bill is important. [[17:54:43]] For 190 Decision taken. Mrs. Lilia, I ask you to come out and report the essence of the law very quickly and in a concise manner so that we can vote for it. And I ask the deputies to remain in the hall. Report, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I think all MPs know very well about the problems with the textbooks that are in our schools today. We now have only 50 percent of the 4th and 7th classes printed. And there are funds transferred from last year to the budgets of the local authorities. It's in place. But they need to advertise the purchase, and for this in the law we have to make changes, that textbooks are free to all our children, that is, to go back to the previous version of the Education Act and general secondary education, that's what this law is about. But what I want to do now is put a few details under the transcripts that are very important to this law. That is, we have it written in the law that the Ministry of Education is back. We have to change it to the words "preparation and publication of textbooks," because the Ministry of Education can't provide the printing itself, it's done by the publications. So in sub-paragraph 1.1, you have to replace the word "release" with "preparation and publication." And also in sub-paragraph 2.1, replace the word "release" with "preparation and publication." And one more thing. This bill deals with providing not only textbooks but also methodical literature. We cannot take methodical literature. Today, textbooks and only some textbooks can be published at the expense of government funds. Therefore, delete the words “methodical literature” from subsection 1.2 and subparagraph 2.2. Now, it's a budget issue. I want to say that for the production of textbooks for all children, and I want to remind you. That there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that we are obliged to provide free textbooks for all students.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u72	Please finish, but briefly, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u73	free general secondary education. So we need an additional 235 million dollars to be extracted. And these 235 million dollars are in the education grant reserve. We talked about this with the Ministry of Finance. We need to solve this issue now, at the beginning of the year, so that the tenders are announced in time and our children are provided with textbooks. Thank you for your attention. I very much ask everyone to support this law, which is extremely important, on the basis of my amendments as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall who just left. Seven. Zhenya Daday, return to the hall. Dear colleagues, please return to the hall. Can we accept it without discussion, without discussion? Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm putting a signal vote on Bill 1857. It is important that we receive it on time so that children can print their textbooks. I'm asking you to support the signal vote, 1857. Colleagues, we vote! 1857, signal vote. [[17:58:48]] For 232 Very good. Colleagues, Mr. Igor, I give my word all the time we can. We will not vote on an important discussion as soon as we hold this discussion. I just have a request for you. I have a request for your support. We're going to be discussing the Bills indefinitely, and now we have to work and make decisions. Right? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on free provision of textbooks for students of general educational institutions and pedagogical workers (number 1857). Dear colleagues, do not leave the hall, but return to the hall, please. I'm putting the vote on the ground, and in general, please support me, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please in favour. [[18:00]] For 235 Decision taken. I welcome the head of the committee and thank you for your persistence, and welcome to all the authors of the law. Thank you for your work, not simple but successful work today. The time provided by the Rules for Our Work is exhausted. Tomorrow we're going to be here at 10 a.m., asking everyone to come in without delay. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
