ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please. [[10:04:06]] 328 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of two of our colleagues. Aunt Borisovna's, our new MP. Let's welcome Mrs. Tetian's birthday. [[Applause]] And also to Andrija Vasilovich Pavelka. Mr. Andrew, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] You have a great responsibility, my spirit. And, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are members of the government at the head of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Please welcome the Prime Minister. And according to 229 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we conduct an hour of questions to the government. The procedure for conducting the "hour of questions to the Government" defined in Part Four of the 229th Rules. And I want to remind you, colleagues, I want to remind you, half an hour is the ministers' speech, and then half an hour is the question of the national MPs. Not factions, but people's deputies. Today we will be presented by Ukrainian Justice Minister Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, as well as by Ukraine’s Minister of Youth and Sports, Igor Aleksandrovich Zhdanov. I mean, next week we're planning on building a youth and sports block. And that's why you have a chance to make your promising plans. And I invite you to the floor before the speech of the Minister of Justice of the Ukraine of Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko. Welcome to Mr. Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian citizens! The topic of today's speech and the information we're going to give you is actually a block of legal war between Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens to protect their interests in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. As one of the great Ukrainians said, Paul Tikin, who is a nation whose truth, power has never been conquered. And this applies to all spheres: both the military sphere and the legal sphere to protect our interests -- because behind us there is truth, we defend our territory, we protect our Ukrainian people. From the early days of the annexation of Crimea, literally on March 13, 2014, the Ukrainian State appealed to the first international judicial body with a large appeal that identified the first human rights violations and the illegal capture of the territory of the sovereign European State in the 21st century. And on March 13, the European Court of Human Rights adopted our application and decided on an unprecedented basis within 72 hours. This was the first decision of an international body to establish illegal military aggression by the Russian Federation in Ukraine. This decision required Russia to take its military forces to their locations. Of course, the Russian Federation has disgracefully violated and failed to implement this decision and a series of further decisions by international organizations, beginning with the General Assembly of the United Nations, completing the relevant decisions of PARJE and the Council of Europe. But it was a historic day when the first international jurisdictional body began to consider the case against Russia and took the first judicial decision. After that, a great deal was done. Of course, the issue of trials and international courts, it's not as public and pianistic as other directions, because it's a huge legal work, a legal war, where there's a lot of evidence, documents, legal positions and less talk. Because any politically loud statement could damage Ukraine's position. I might say that in these 2.5 years, Ukraine has actually begun an unprecedented number of international trials. I want to say thank you to these international legal experts, Ukrainian national experts, the legal defenders who, from the first days after the revolution, helped the new Ministry of Justice, our team, to develop these legal positions. Today, Ukraine has five interstate cases against Russia. This is case number one, which was initiated on March 13, 2014 and involved massive human rights violations: Ukrainian citizens, military officials, Crimean Tatars during the first days of the Crimea annexation. This case now has a huge amount of evidence, over a few thousand written evidences, testimonies, and it's happening. is at the point of communication in the European Court of Justice. The second case was initiated by the Ukrainian State on August 21, 2014. It was initiated by an unprecedented fact when Ukrainian orphans were abducted from the territory of Ukraine in the territory of Donbas, transported by separatists and militants to Russia. The Russian official authorities, namely the Border Service of the Russian Federation, ensured that these fighters were allowed to enter Russia, and all of these facts were documented. Similarly, we filed a separate application, and the European Court of Justice, for the second time in its history on these relations, made an immediate interim decision within 72 hours, obliging the Russian Federation to return our children to Ukraine. Happily, this decision was made. And here's the big credit, and the Ukrainian lawyers, the Ukrainian diplomats, when we hit together with the international community of the aggressor country, and the Ukrainian children were returned to the territory of Ukraine. But we have adopted the principle of a position that will lead us to the final stage: a decision that will in fact establish a link, cooperation and support between the Russian Federation of Russian militants and terrorists in Ukraine. This is the second big deal that is now in the ECHR and is at the point of communication. In fact, all the evidence by Ukraine, the undeniable evidence by Ukraine was given, all the facts of the violations by the Russian Federation of International Law, its support and the harassment of terrorists operating in Donbas territory, have been documented. And we look forward to an appropriate decision in this matter in favour of Ukraine and the restoration of rights and justice. The third was a painful issue for all of Ukraine: the issue of beatings and persecution of Crimean Tatars in the territory of the annexed Crimea. These are the facts that have already been established since the illegal annexation of Crimea, after the so-called accession of Crimea to the Russian Federation. And we worked in the underground area of Crimea, with the Kree SOS, with the other attorneys, by witnessing to relatives, by witnessing the facts of the kidnapping, by throwing these people away for playing behind the fictional articles called Separatist, in the Russian Federation. And all of these facts are the basis of the third major complaint that is now before the European Court of Human Rights. And in this context, I would like to announce that we are going to file an appropriate complaint in conjunction with the Majlis regarding the so-called ban on the activities of the Majlis in the territory of the Russian Federation, which is an unprecedented fact in national history when acts of genocide against the entire nation are being carried out in Europe. The next complaint involved painful events in the territory of Donbas. These are the events of 2014, 2015 and 2016. Those numerous human rights violations: mass killings, gunfire on peaceful territories, killing our military personnel, kidnapping of journalists, kidnapping of volunteers -- were recorded in this major complaint, in the fifth complaint filed with the European Court of Human Rights. This complaint has an unprecedented number of evidence – more than 10,000 documents, testimonies, photographs, videos submitted to the European Court of Human Rights. We take into account that this same complaint should be communicated without delay by the European Court of Human Rights, despite the Jesuit position of the Russian Federation, which is repeatedly asking for a suspension, giving them more time to explain the undeniable facts of human rights violations that we have indicated in our complaint. But I am convinced that the European Court of Human Rights will start to consider this complaint in the following year, and this is our clear position as Ukraine, as a country that is affected, as a country that has lost tens of thousands of lives because of the illegal aggression and barbaric actions of the Russian Federation. All these matters are extremely important, extremely complex. All these things take a long time. I might say the same thing is that these things don't come up in months. This number of interstate cases was not known by the European Court of Human Rights for its history of functioning. Throughout the history of the European Court of Justice, he has dealt with just 16 inter-State cases. During these two years, Ukraine has already submitted five related wars involving the genocide of Ukrainian citizens relating to mass human rights violations in Europe. But I'm convinced that behind us is the truth behind us, behind us, and we're going to win these legal battalions. We understand that it is impossible to cover all the facts, thousands of violations of the rights of our citizens in the territory of Donbas and Crimea, and so last July, decisions were made in the framework of a free legal aid system in Ukraine, and this system worked after the Dignity Revolution, we created at first 100 centres of free legal assistance throughout the country, now more than 500 of them, there are 5,000 Ukrainian lawyers and more than 2,000 lawyers and provide assistance to the low-income, disabled, pensioners, participants in the ATO, we have decided to create a large project within the framework of this system that would help Ukrainian citizens to file individual complaints against the Russian aggressor. I want to thank from this rostrum those thousands of Ukrainian lawyers and lawyers who work with us in a free legal aid system and provide assistance to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens every day. This year alone, more than 200,000 Ukrainian citizens, low - income Ukrainians, have received free legal aid for those who have never been able to obtain a paid lawyer. And the big block of work here is also about the violations that are fixed on Donbassa. More than 2,000 individual complaints from Ukrainian citizens are now brought before the European Court of Human Rights and we will continue to provide them with legal assistance in each of these cases in order to record in every small case the serious human rights violations committed by the Russian Federation and personally the person responsible for these crimes, President Putin of Russia. It's a big block of work, of course, that block of work that needs extraordinary effort to systematize and accompany it, but we, as the Ministry of Justice, have identified ourselves as a priority. Third cluster of issues related to the United Nations International Court of Justice. I want to say that Russia was well prepared for aggression because all Russian diplomacy, beginning in the 1990s, was purposeful at the time of signing any interstate and international agreements, including conduct that allowed them not to distribute the International Court of Justice's law to these agreements. What this means in plain language is the Russians, realizing that they are not going to implement key interstate and international agreements, wrote that if they break this agreement they have the right to refuse to deal with such a case before the International Court of Justice. We, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with Ukrainian lawyers and lawyers, have carried out a study of virtually the entire bloc of interstate and international agreements signed by Russia in 25 years, and of those treaties that Russia has joined as a successor to the Soviet Union. This is more than a few thousand relevant international instruments. And we found a small but serious number of agreements that allow us to go to the International Court of Justice without the aggressor country's consent. These three large - scale conventions are now subject to judicial and judicial work. I do not have the capacity, by virtue of the UN International Court of Justice Rules, to disclose the details of our applications to this institution and the trial process. Because these details can be used by the respondent country and the aggressor country to delay these processes from a procedural point of view. But I can tell you exactly that we are currently doing the pretrial work in fact at the final stage in order to record the violation by the Russian Federation at two conventions. This is the 1999 International Convention to Combat the Financing of Terrorism. And the second convention is the 1965 International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. At these two conventions in Russia, there is no way to avoid an international court if we are to prove its involvement in the violations outlined in these conventions. These two conventions have already resulted in a series of court procedures. And if Russia does not acknowledge and resolve its violations, I will say so diplomatically, then we will continue to apply those mechanisms that provide for the judicial review of violations of conventions before the UN International Court of Justice. The third convention, which deals with the gross and insolent violation of Ukraine's rights by using our navels on the continental shelf in Crimea. We've exhausted all of the aggressor country's plausible settlement mechanisms at this convention. And there is now a process of initiating and reviewing this case before the United Nations International Court of Justice. It's a big block of work. And I am convinced that there is no doubt in the entire civilized world that Russia is an aggressor country, that Russia is the country that has been brutally submerged in the world's rule of law. I am convinced that Ukraine will win all the things we have initiated. And this will be part of the answer and the restoration of justice for which every criminal must be held accountable. And there is no man in the whole world who will escape this responsibility. And I am convinced that the President of the Russian Federation will have this time to dream about the International Criminal Court in The Hague. And it will end much worse than dozens of dictators who ended badly this year. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Minister of Youth and Sports Igor Alexanderovich Zhdanov is invited to the floor. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! From 5 to 21 August and from 7 to 18 September 2016, the Summer Olympics and the Paralympic Games were held in Brazil, Rio de Janeiro. Our Olympics chose 11 medals: 2 gold, 5 silver, and 4 bronze prizes. Each of the Olympic medals brought great sports glory to Ukraine. Each prize was won by extraordinary efforts, and then, at times by blood, the overwhelming power of the spirit, the will, and the skill of Ukrainian athletes throughout the world. Because of Russian aggression, we lost 8 percent of the territory, 20 percent of the economy, a large number of sports infrastructures in Crimea and temporarily uncontrollable Ukrainian authorities in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. In spite of this, our athletes spoke with dignity at the planet’s main competitions. In the unofficial command post and the Olympic Games, Ukraine’s team took 25 seats at a total of medals. A total of 11,000 athletes competed in the Olympics, representing 207 countries around the world. By the number of fourths, sixths, Ukraine placed fourth place, fourteenth place in the world, and 31rd place in gold. In total, 55 Ukrainian athletes took up high fourth to sixth places at the Rio Olympics and stopped literally just one step from winning. According to the International Olympic Committee, our athletes are among the best athletes on the planet. After all, IOC gives special diplomas to such Olympics for a successful performance. This reflects Ukraine’s considerable sporting potential, which needs to be preserved and multiplied. That's why the Ministry took the initiative and developed a bill for the Cabinet of Ministers to pay off incentive prizes to athletes and coaches who took up fourth and sixth seats at the Olympics. I ask the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance to support this initiative. Ukrainian athletes also faced unobjective judicial and fraudulent injuries, but they exhibited 100 percent. For example, our heavyweight Yuri Paratova and her men went out for a race, she lost consciousness of pain, but she courageously pulled the pole. Our freestyle fighter, Valérie Andrians, had every chance to win a high prize, but in one match he was seriously injured, and for a bronze medal he had already competed with a broken connection and an injured knee. The whole country was thrilled to see the triumphant performance of our Paralympics. Ukraine has not simply confirmed its leading role in World Paralympic sports; it is there in its first positions. Ukrainian paralympics won 117 medals, of which 41 were gold, 37 were silver, and 39 were bronze. Our congregation has placed a third command post. 109 records have been set, including 22 world records, 32 paralympic records, and 54 European records. In Rio, more than 4,000 athletes competed in the Paralympics. which represented 170 countries around the world. A Ukrainian swimmer, Maxim Kripak, made special mention of the paralympic debut. Our Cossack won five gold medals in the swim. Another of our swimmers, Elizabeth Netzko, chose four gold medals. Our Paralympics have demonstrated around the world that Ukraine is a great sporting state, that we, Ukrainians, are a nation of incorruptible people capable of coping with all kinds of difficulties and obstacles. Let's all give a big round of applause and thank the Ukrainian athletes, the Olympics and the Paralympics, the doctors, the masseuses, the coaches, all who worked to win Ukraine in Rio. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the preparations for the next Paralympic and Olympic Games begin right after the previous competitions. We have to take a very thorough approach to Tokyo-2020, draw conclusions and make the necessary adjustments, especially with regard to the Summer Olympic Games in Rio, which have demonstrated not only our strengths but also our problems. We have also objectively seen the weaknesses in the sport of Ukraine’s higher achievements. A number of presentations by sports federations have been declared unsatisfactory in the board of ministries. I would like to point out that the Ministry has made the most possible preparations for Rio, taking into account the minimum resources we had. 99 percent of the issues they raised, athletes and federations were resolved. Funding was provided for the Olympic preparations. Let's take the judo. In 2013 - 2016, 5.5 million dollars were allocated to NTZ abroad alone. Our judoists had congregations in Japan, Georgia, Spain, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia, France, Germany, Cuba, Austria, and Turkey. Also, there were double prizes and victories at world and European championships -- 100,000 dollars for the world's gold and 50,000 for the gold of the European Championship. A decision was also taken by the government to gradually increase the rewards for the Paralympics. And in 2018, these prizes will be compared to those for Olympic athletes. The minister’s order increased the standards of nutrition for members of Ukraine’s collective teams to 350 dollars a day. A full set of new shells purchased for sports gymnastics It's guaranteed to pay the prizes for the Olympics and the Paralympics, and I want you to know that on the second day after the Olympics, all the Olympics received their prizes. I mean, the Paralympics got a summons when they got here, to our country, to Ukraine, they were very, very warmly welcomed here. A serious conversation has just begun, and I am grateful to the Youth, Sports, and Tourism Committee for having held meetings of a committee that has had a serious discussion about the problems in our sport. On October 4th, there was a meeting of the board of ministries devoted to a serious professional analysis of the results demonstrated by athletes in Rio de Janeiro. Presidents of the National Olympic Committee Sergey Bubka, President of the Committee on Disabled Persons of Ukraine Valeriy Suškević, representatives of the expert council, Ukrainian National Deputies, including the head of the Committee of Artur Palatny, Denis Silantiev, National MP, and Vladimir Gusak, National MP. There were representatives of physical and sporting societies and the presidents of the Federation. Based on experts ’ findings and analytical work, the concept of preparing Ukraine’s national team for the next Olympics should soon be developed. This is going to be a serious system document, our joint work plan for the new Olympic cycle. In terms of the foundations of the next strategy, it must be acknowledged that the potential of Soviet sport has finally exhausted, and generations have changed. In Rio, we already had the fairs and the Olympics, which are the peers of Ukraine’s independence. In fact, the result and the challenge we have shown in Brazil is that Ukraine has been objectively involved in sports for the past 25 years. Among the problems that exist, they need to be overcome. First, unfortunately, the key is and remains the chronic underfunding of the sports sector, the prolonged lack of capital investment in reconstruction and the construction of new sports infrastructure. A particularly acute problem is added by the painful infrastructure losses caused by the occupation of Crimea and parts of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. And in this connection, the Ministry initiated a government-led issue of creating a separate programme for the development of sport infrastructure, expected to be set at least 10 percent in 2017 at the State Regional Development Fund, about 300 million dollars. The project must be implemented through co-financing with local budgets and local communities. The Ministry will also continue to reinstall the Olympic training bases, which belong to the Ministry’s administration. For this, the 2017 budget provides 25 million dollars. It's different. Sports of higher achievements need reliable legislative support. Additional sources of financing for the development of sport and the restoration of sports infrastructure can provide for the adoption of special laws on mercenation and the alienation of part of the income from the lottery. In the entire civilized world, higher - score sports are being developed primarily by means of the funds that come from the sports lotteries. These are countries such as Poland, Britain, and many other countries. I'm talking to the people's deputies, let's help out the sport regardless of your political orientation. I ask you very much on behalf of the entire sports community to consider our bills not on Friday but on the days when they have real chances of approval. For example, today after the "Government Day" is a day-to-day draft of a very important Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. Its approval is aimed at implementing the recommendations of the World Anti - Doping Agency. Please support this bill. Third. In preparation for summer games in Tokyo and winters in South Korea, it is necessary to clearly identify the priority sports. The butter-smashing time of the sandwich is over. All available resources will be concentrated as much as possible on priority sports. After each priority Olympic sport, we plan to open a national center from the Olympics. Also supported by the government is the idea of creating a paralympic base of summer sports because our base that exists and exists today is in Eupatoria, in the occupied Crimea, and our paralympics cannot use it. When it comes to international experience, the definition of priority sports is a straight line to victory. Yes, Britain has identified twenty priority sports that were financed through a separate financial programme called UK Sport. Another example is Norway. There are 64 sports officially recognized in this country, but state funding focuses on 12-15 priority sports. The Ministry's order will be prepared by the end of the year and approved by me. Fourth. We're putting the risk of working as a coach for Ukraine's collective team at the Rio Olympics. Competitions will be held for the positions of all major and state coaches of the established assembly teams. Every coach who wants to continue working with the assembly next year has to report on previous activities and the efficiency of using state resources. They also have to protect the project of preparing the Ukrainian team for the next Olympic Games. Let's go. Let's go, The Ministry generally supports the continuation of the state experiment with sports federations. This is a real step towards the autonomy of sports. And so I have to say that many federations are institutionally unable not only to participate in the experiment but to perform their direct functions. This was fully reflected in the preparations for the Rio Olympics. The Ministry guarantees amendments to the agreements on cooperation with national federations. It is necessary to determine further and clearly: the obligation of the parties, the increased liability for noncontractual obligations, the conditions for transparent participation, and the use of extrabudgetary funds. Six. There is a need to step up the role of science and technology in the preparation of the Ukrainian team for the Olympics, without the introduction of qualitatively new methods, training tools today cannot improve sports results. This is a priority for the State Institute for Physical Culture and Sports. It's the seventh. I want to put an end to the issue of anti-doping legislation. In which I emphasize that we will not cover anyone, Ukraine will continually follow all the recommendations and requirements of VADA. The National Anti - Doping Center also needs to strengthen its educational work among sportsmen, trainers on anti - doping issues. Next. Sports begin with villages, villages, cities, and areas. It starts with school and university. The Ministry is working with those athletes who have already been taken and prepared for the collective teams of mass, child and youth systems, university and reserve sports. Experts note that in recent years the number and quality of completion of the collective teams that we receive from the regions does not correspond to the country’s sporting potential. There are 180-day athletes in training congregations and international competitions, but then they go back to their hometown, they face a lot of problems. It's very often the absence of normal socio-economic conditions, halls and stadiums to support sports forms. As part of decentralization, local self-government has now received a 50 - percent increase in the budget, so it is their responsibility to direct this resource to finance and resupply PRSPs, repair of gymnasiums, payable scholarships and premiums for athletes. And the last. The issue of introducing new standards of public policy in the field of physical education and sports is important. The Ministry has developed indicators of physical culture and sports in places that are necessarily introduced into the area rating system run by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u5	Please complete one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u6	From the preservation of mass and child-to-child sport, we need to move on to its development. It is necessary to increase the percentage of citizens’ participation in sports annually, and it is also a direct responsibility of the local authorities. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. But I urge all the political forces to cooperate for Ukraine's new sports victories.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the questions of the national MPs. I would like to emphasize: questions of the national MPs, not factions. And in that aspect -- because I have a lot of demands for all factions to be represented -- I want to say that we have factions that have 141 deputies, and there are that have 20. And actually, there's an opportunity to speak more to the larger factions. And so this principle has to be preserved, and I'm convinced that all MPs have equal access to the speeches. And so, colleagues, it's half an hour from the deputies. I'm asking you to do the recording. And please sign up. Savrasov Maxim Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Andri Shinkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, taking this opportunity, I would like to convey to you the respect of the pilgrims, of the electorates of our districts, and to make such a request. Netheshinski. More loyally, it's a hop nuclear power station. There's a stage. By 25 percent, 3 and 4 energy clouds are built. And there will be a request from you, Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, to give you proper instructions to try to find a way to continue the building, because we have a problem with internal energy security. The other one. There is a LEP, which is built up to Szeshuwa in Poland, which can, in principle, export energy in the future. And the second big request for you to take control of the distribution of funds in the observation area, because the local authorities, the district authorities, first of all, this subsidy that comes into the area, it doesn't exactly distribute it. Well, it spreads directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u10	Please. Who's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u11	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! In fact, the question of energy independence, and I think that's how it needs to be considered today, is a priority for our government, and I think for most Ukrainian parliamentarians as well. Our plans are to increase the power of nuclear power. Of course, we are looking at increasing power, introducing new powers. And I want to tell you that over the last few months, we've done some serious work, and even today, we have a lot of weight in the production of electricity, nuclear power. 59 percent electricity, if we had 46 and 48 percent just recently, and 50.52 percent. So this work is done by the government on a systemic basis. And I want to emphasize that this is completely in line with our strategy. As for other issues, I have also set up an observation area, including the following: Thank you for asking. It's a genuine and highly respected voter of your district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u12	You finished your answer, didn't you? Melniczuk Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u13	I have a question for the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. To what extent will Russian mercenaries lead state-owned strategic enterprises, namely the Ukratranshimyak? To what extent will our nation be looted? It's enough that the entire military-industrial complex, the Armed Forces, the IMF, is being looted. And what are the conclusions of my parliamentary questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is absolutely the right question, the question of strategic enterprises, which has been posed by more than a dozen deputies from the Supreme Council. I want to inform you that on October 5th, 2016, the four companies I want to inform you about have completed the adoption of documents. About the Ukrimtransamak, 38 candidates, the Power Plant, 35 candidates, the Port of Mariupol, 6 candidates, and the Airport of Borispil, 25 candidates. The following steps will be taken or called a time line. By 10.10 this week, we're going to get some information about the absence of justice from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Monday or Tuesday, after receiving help, this is October 10-11, there's going to be a meeting of four committees and the admission of candidates, and on October 12 the commission will start interviews, and we want to finish the public competition as soon as possible in October, where the representatives of the ministries and representatives of the international structures will participate from the point of view of the selection of candidates. The South Committee nomination committee meeting is scheduled for Monday, October 10th. It's for all businesses, including your question about Skrtranshimyak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Efraem's Irina Alexiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u16	Ephraim. Please pass the word to Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u17	Korchik, People's Front. I'd like to speak to the minister of youth and sports. And first of all, I want to thank you, Igor Aleksandrovitch, that in almost two years you have managed to stabilize the situation in the sport of higher achievements. There, too, you have managed to set up a normal and systematic ministry of youth and sports. We've all seen the catastrophic state of sport between 2013 and 14. The situation is gradually improving. And it should be noted that, with the initiative and support of the government, Arsenius Yatsenuk, at the end of 2015, we were able to buy new equipment for the Olympic collective Ukraine. This was done for the first time in four years. And to the question, please tell me how the financing of physical culture has changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u18	30 seconds, finish, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u19	Culture and Sports in the 2017 State Budget Project, compared to this year? Do you have enough money for the following year, and how do you see the development, reconstruction and improvement of Ukraine’s sports infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. In terms of government budget project figures, the Ministry’s funding for the project for 2017 has increased by almost 300 million dollars. One billion (692 billion) 692 million is planned compared to 1 billion 422 million dollars this year. I'd like to say that by accepting this budget, we realized that this is an honest and real budget. That's why he is. In times of war, we need to finance the area of national security and defence first. But as any minister, I'm willing to consider any proposals to increase financing for the sports sector. What's touching the infrastructure. I've already talked about it, and we've agreed with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine that 10 percent of the State Regional Development Fund will be earmarked specifically for the development of sport infrastructure. This is a real way for stadiums, schools, sports halls to appear or repair in the regions. And I think this is the experience of Poland that we're going to be moving. Because Poland’s similar fund is 100 million euros. And this is the way for each military to build an Olympic swimming pool 50 meters away, to rebuild the infrastructure. I think that's the way we'll go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u21	Mr. Prime Minister, you wanted to respond to the previous question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u22	If you don't mind, I'm a few words on both the front and the physical culture and sports. In fact, what the minister said is completely part of our plan. We want to develop sports infrastructure. And so in the framework of the State Regional Development Fund, we have 300 million dollars to be earmarked for co-financing in the area for the restoration of sport infrastructure. The time has come for us to start rebuilding school stadiums, playgrounds for mass sport. This is therefore fully in line with our plans and is included in the 2017 draft budget. I'd like to go back to Ukrimtrasamak. I think it would be absolutely fair at the moment, including the holding of a contest, to conduct a service examination of the facts that have been put out by the people's deputies today. That's why I'm entrusting the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economics, to make a proposal to the government to withdraw from the occupied position of that kanda. The person you told me about today at the time of the service inspection. And there's going to be a competition, and we're going to be able to make absolutely public choices about quality management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u24	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Please give the floor to my colleague, Alexander Kodola, to address the government with an overemphasis on social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u25	Alexander Kodolah. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. As a national MP, my colleagues are approached by a great many citizens who have become adoptives to violate their social rights. They are assigned to assist in the adoption of the child, but the period of adoption assistance is not part of the work experience. I believe that citizens who adopt have to be provided with the same social guarantees as citizens who raise their own child. So in this case, there are signs of discrimination. I've already been addressing the Ministry with MPs, and I know that there's been an appropriate legislative initiative, but I haven't seen any movement on this issue in six months. So the question is, what measures are being taken by the Ministry to ensure the social rights of citizens who have become adoptive and for them?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u26	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u27	who have become adoptive, namely, to include in the work experience the period of receiving assistance when adopting a child before reaching the age of three? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. I want to say that today, under the current legislation, we have all the social guarantees that are being provided to help with the birth of a child or other forms of assistance, and we are now also scheduled for adoption. In addition, according to the state support of the adoptive parents, we pay for orphans and children deprived of parental care, adoptions -- two living minimums per child of appropriate age. As far as your question is concerned about labour legislation. You've noted, very faithfully, that today the Minister of Social Affairs is preparing an appropriate draft decision. Your request in this regard was, worked out, the basis for drafting such a bill. In the near future, we will be going through a process of agreement with the ministries and departments, which is the case with this legislation. I think that this month we will be able, with the support of the government, to submit a bill to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, the People's Deputy Odarchenko question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u30	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. I have a question for the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice. Now in the draft budget, the State Budget for 2017, the issue of energy finance in health facilities is placed on local budgets. Local budgets do not calculate the sources for financing heat and electricity for hospitals. Does the minister of health understand that there will be a disaster? And how is he going to solve this problem? And to the Minister of Justice. The report was very good. But if you look at the human resources policy that is taking place in Herson, you can see that there are very serious shortcomings. The former district administrator was released for bribes in his system. Today’s man, Hutkowski, whom you have appointed today, is charged with taking 30 lands near him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u31	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u32	What you're going to do to ensure that the personnel policy in your ministry is unbiased and qualitative to the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u33	Please respond. The answer, please, is the Ministry of Health and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u34	Okay. Thank you for asking. We have an additional reserve for those district and city hospitals that will not be able to pay for the utility. We're already talking to the Ministry of Finance to help those who can't afford to pay for the year 2017. And this is budgeted, and we're ready to talk to those who have economic problems. About the frames. Human resources are not always resolved in the Ministry; many decisions are made at the district or district level, or city councils. What we can do is we ask you to provide this information through the Ministry so that we can do our research and see if we need to change those images. Thank you for this information. We're going to take the Herson area now, and we're going to take a look at the footage. And if you could come up to me and pass that information on to the line, we could do research and see how we can influence it. We want our actions on health care to be transparent and free of corruption, and we are willing to work with you to see what is happening and to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Next question. The Minister of Justice is still here, Mr. Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. Let me inform you that the Ministry of Justice, after a functional audit by our colleagues from the European Commission, has decided to eliminate 600 district administrations of justice from the Soviet model. We've set up a Legal Aid Office, along with a project to support Ukraine by the Canadian government, these are the offices that provide legal aid throughout the country, over 500 of them. During the summer, an unprecedented public competition company was held in the offices, including in the Hersonian region. We went to the experiment when two thirds of the competition commission was represented by local public organizations, and over 5,000 lawyers throughout the country applied for these competitions. Our policy is very clear, it's a policy of openness and transparency in human resources policy. If you have any facts, please tell me, we will, of course, consider them on a national commission. But our approach is that we are open to society. I would like to say the same now from this rostrum to welcome all Ukrainian lawyers with the coming day of the lawyer. I want you to have strength, professional success and strength. Ukrainian jurisprudence, Ukrainian law is very strong because the Ukrainian state is democratic. I want to welcome my lawyers in the same way, and I want to welcome the notaries and representatives of other professions with this professional holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, this is Andrew Teteruk's question from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u38	Teteruk Andrey, People's Front. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, since the 2014 Dignity Revolution, we have been building a rightful democratic state. But on July 22, 2016, Kabdin liberated the head of the Space Agency of Lubomir Sabados in an illegal way. On September 14, 2016, Kabin appointed an unemployed pensioner to serve as head of the Ukrainian Space Agency with a number of violations of Ukrainian legislation. Please explain to me why Kabin makes such decisions, in flagrant violation of Ukrainian legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u39	Please respond to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u40	Dear Andrew Anatolyovich, thank you so much for your question. The government of Ukraine makes all purely legal decisions that go through appropriate procedures, including those relating to the Space Agency. Unfortunately, in a state where there is a space sector, I would say, in a terrible state, you have to make a decision here, including a staff decision, so the government has made that decision. But I think that human resources policy is one thing, and the other is a strategy for the development of the space sector. So now we're working to shape the perspective for years ahead, the space sector can't develop in one or two months or a year. To make it absolutely clear that we're investing in the space sector and that we're finally going to have a way out. We have enough quality potential today, which, unfortunately, has not been used, and I think, including deliberately. I'm not speaking in recent years, I'm talking in previous years, including. Because both our country’s defences and the space industry, as well as other high - tech productions, were simply destroyed and destroyed from within the system itself. I can say today that, including those interested in this, there were those who wanted to weaken Ukraine. This is a question that we have in our work, especially as it comes to what is now the responsibility of the Space Agency. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u41	Silantiev Denis Olegovich conveys the word Laško Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. Dear Paul, I can't call you for a few days, I understand you're very busy and you have no opportunity to speak to the leader of the parliamentary faction. But I'm not calling you to drink vodka with you or go to the sauna. And I'm calling because last Friday I went to Dnipropetrovska and met with farmers -- the Novomoskovsky region, the village of Pázna, the farm "Dar". The farmer’s farm owner died, and the farm was drained. And today, in fact, the raiding of the land, the raiding of the village. First of all, I demand you take measures to stop these raids not only in this case, because the farmers from Sofia in the Dnipropetrov region, from the Zaporozhye region, came along. Yesterday we passed the anti-rider law, and we demand that you act as a Ministu to protect farmers from raids. And for the future when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u43	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u44	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I apologize for not being in touch. I'm reporting that he was on a mission to Brussels and Strasbourg, where important meetings were held on the issue of granting us a visa-free regime. I'm sorry again. I'm always open to communication, you know, we're with you both during the revolution and after the revolution in constant constructive contact. And I want to thank your faction and all the MPs who voted the anti-rider bill yesterday. It really introduces the responsibility of this kind of "deals" who have been in the field of raiding in Ukraine for 25 years. I want to inform everyone, all Ukrainian citizens. Once this law has been signed by the President of Ukraine for every such fact, the person involved in the registration is both the registrar and the applicant, and, most importantly, those comforters -- the companies and groups that are in charge of this, and in fact the marauders -- cannot be called otherwise -- will be held liable for up to 8 years by prisons with all the specific confiscation. The Ministry of Justice will react very harshly to such facts and pass these materials on to our law enforcement colleagues. And here is the important position of the entire session room and all the deputies: that each such fact be brought to an end, that every person involved in such violations should be put in prison. I want to thank the authors of the law, the head of the committee, Oksani Sold for the work we did, and all of you for actually covering up most of the possibilities of raiding Ukraine yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u45	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u46	First question I have to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I am addressing you from a group of Chernobyl deputies. And what I'm saying is that in the preparation of the 2017 budget, the Ministry of Finance continues its efforts to save lives on citizens who have suffered from an accident at CHEUS. I remind you, 30 years after Chernobyl, this year, the liquidators, we owed these people. And if you're still asking questions about the limitations of all social benefits, programs and so forth, it's wrong. And a question to Mr. Kutov. Mr. Minister, we welcome your actions today on the order of the Ukrainian forest farm. But we're going to give you materials as well as law enforcement: you can't keep on working today for managers who are being prosecuted for abuse in a forest farm, and they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u47	Dates completed or finished? Okay. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I would like to stress that the government of Ukraine has implemented the 2017 budget in a timely manner, based on those real income and expenditure indicators. You know, my inner conviction and my desire to give everything to everyone. But we come from the fact that the real possibilities of the budget, and we have to make the most and effective use of them, and here I hope that we, together with Parliament's deputies in time, in line with the priorities set out in the 2017 budget, will adopt this budget. Once again, I would like to emphasize that our main task today is to focus on the development of the national economy. We can provide a qualitative breakthrough, we see these possibilities, and this will be the best response to the repayments that Ukraine has accumulated over the decades, especially years of irresponsible populationism and the destruction of the national economy. Here, our task with you today is to take full responsibility for these tasks. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u49	I'm going on. Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich, thank you for your assessment of the reform course that we are doing in the Ministry. I also want to assure you that all people who have a bearing. And here we have quite a close cooperation with the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, have a bearing on crimes, will be removed from their posts. And I call on you and the people's deputies, including if there are facts that require verification by both the Ministry and the law enforcement agencies, we're open to cooperation, we'll do it. And then we really hope that at those competitions, and today we're just going to have a competitive system for selecting people for these jobs, we're going to have good, good managers that will help both the Ministry and you, fellow national MPs, in reforming the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Rosenko! I thank you so much for finally putting money into cochlear implantation for deaf children this year, 35 million, and the next 75 million. But I wanted to suggest that we start with a good path -- to create a working group with the Prime Minister to work on this draft budget, so that all the childhood complex diseases will be funded next year. And the second question. Thank you, too, from all the residents of Umani, for having responded to our initiative and to the national and local deputies of Twachenka Governor’s office, for giving money to the city of Uman 15 million. But I wanted to suggest that we still consider the possibility for the next year in the Chercas region, which is a terrible state of roads, to increase funding as well. I am sure that all Ukrainians will thank you, not just the Churches, but the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u52	Will we consider this a thank you, or will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u53	Thank you, I'll say a few words for what we've done to support the children. In fact, yesterday's budget changes identified 35 million dollars for hearing aids for children, which is an extremely important issue. We also put almost twice as much in the 2017 budget for these needs, i.e. 75 million dollars. In addition, the budget provides for the following year 5.9 billion dollars for the purchase of drugs, including medicines that have a bearing on children’s diseases. I'd like to give you an answer to today's questions that the Ukrainian people's deputies were asking in the previous "hour of questions to the government." First question, it's the medicine. In fact, the problem of buying drugs and delivering them was extremely serious. Now I want to tell you that by our efforts, by the efforts of the government, we have already put about 90 percent of the drugs that have been purchased in Ukraine. Next. Percentage: TB tests -- 74 percent already in Ukraine; child oncology -- about 78 percent, which is a very important and sensitive issue; adult oncology -- 90 percent; HIV tests -- 99 percent; orphan disease -- 98 percent; paediatric hepatitis -- 99 percent; adult hepatitis -- 67; and paediatric hemophilia -- 100 percent. So that shows that we're dealing with this subjectively enough, that we're going to get this figure to 100 percent, and we're going to get it as far as possible, and we're going to go through international organizations and we're going to continue the purchase, but we've already caught up with the time that was, unfortunately, lost. Thank you for asking. As for Umani. For justice's sake, I can tell you that the Polish National MP was actually addressing it, and you were also addressing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u54	Thank you. The fisherman's saying the word Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the Radical Party faction is asking you to urgently overcome the problem of unemployment, the revival of industry. We insist that next week, without delay, we set up a committee in government to support industrial development. At the first meeting of this committee, we're going to look at the problem of transporting the goods to the Ukrainian industry, which is why the country is losing its export revenue today. We also insist on moving from declarations to real things. In order to introduce industrial parks in the country, not only did we foresee what was now adopted as a basis in Parliament but we put in place international arbitration in their territories in order to have the jurisdiction of international courts there. The second is to support the government as quickly as possible and to adopt the Export Credit Agency Act in Parliament to make loans to Ukrainian producers. Then the state budget will be filled, and wages and pensions can be increased so that inflation does not eat them up. That's the plan we're proposing to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u56	Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Victor Valeriovich. It seems that you are reading our thoughts, the thoughts of the government. We spent several months preparing for the Industrial Recovery Committee. It will be created in October. I very much invite you to participate directly in his work. And in fact, I am absolutely convinced that only through the growth of the national economy can we build quality living conditions for Ukrainians. Everything else because of a printed machine -- it doesn't work, everybody did it to us. Everyone wanted to be beautiful, just today, just now, and everyone was working on some kind of election, so it's parliamentary, it's presidential, it's another one. We don't have to work for elections, but we have to work for a Ukrainian citizen and do it all the time. So our task, we create an investment office, you know, is to accompany investment. We're going to accompany everyone, first of all, large and medium-sized investments in Ukraine. And then we're going to build a network like this. I'd like every company to have, we've had information that they're returning VAT on time, that they don't have any abuse from control structures, that they don't have any agreement problems, that they don't have border crossing problems in import-export operations. And so on, so on, so on. Next position. It's an industry committee that will integrate itself and analyse all the industrial issues that there is. Unfortunately, today we have enormous challenges in this area. But I know that we have an extremely serious potential to create new jobs, to raise Ukrainian wages, to produce a competitive national product. In this regard, I fully support the idea of creating industrial parks. And I would very much like the whole of Ukraine to be an industrial park. But you have to move gradually. The first thing we have to do is actually create industrial parks that will have attractive investment conditions compared to our neighbors, to those countries that offer these opportunities today. I think international arbitration is a perfectly normal step that can add confidence to business to invest in our country's economy. That's why we're going to maintain this position, too, and we think it's absolutely right. The only thing we need to do is create conditions where high-tech equipment will be created, where jobs will be created, where decent wages will actually be paid and competitive products produced. We're going to invest all our efforts in this. And I thank you that a number of legislative initiatives have been voted on in Parliament. And we look forward to their consideration in the second reading and in general. Including the export credit agency. Look at our international trade! We have unused reserves today. We're getting a lot of problems from the point of entry into other markets right now. Today, we have untapped opportunities for Ukrainian goods to be present in international markets. To do that, we need to create mechanisms, including ecos, that enable us to support our manufacturers and increase exports of products. These are all known tools in the world that have been used from time to time in one country or another. Our task is to make it quality, fast, and clear. And the main thing is not just making decisions, putting them into effect. So once again, I want to urge everyone to work as the only team, as the collective of Ukraine at the "economic development champion" and to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Colleagues, time's up, 3 minutes' time's up. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, can we ask one more question? Please, one more question, and then Heroshenko, one more question, and we're done. Please, Ostap Ednak. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister. Volodymyr Borisovich, I have a question about the forest farm. I am concerned about the government's position on unemployment, in fact, neither the previous government nor the current government has put forward proposals for systemic reforms in forest management, but the government is dealing with a different moratorium and cosmetic. She's been working on the edge. I have a question: Is the government planning a systematic change to the implementation of the Coalition Agreement, in particular, of the forest management system? Again this year, no money has been made in the budget for the financing of south and east of Ukraine, for the financing of forests. And the question of forest management. I have a great deal of attention to the competition. Does the government plan to appoint a head and recognize the results of a competition for the head of forestry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say a few words about that. First of all, we're not working to change conditions, but we're working on finding a solution to the restoration of the forest fund of Ukraine. And in this context, I have a very clear proposal for you: would you not be co-chaired by a working group on making decisions that would allow for a system of forest management? I wanted to offer it to you in the working order, but now I can do it in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to set up a working group that will make all the decisions that will solve the problem of Ukrainian forests. And if you're the co-chair of this group, I think it's going to be very inclusive, given the Ukrainian Parliament. And we'll get better experts. Together with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, we can work out quick decisions that will stop the barbarisms that are taking place in the Ukrainian forest. As far as management is concerned. As you know, the independent commission of the High State Corps has chosen a candidate for the post of Head of the State Department. I cannot evaluate the work of the commission, and I believe that they were objective when considering the candidates who were appointed. And our job today is to appoint this leader. But I would like to assign this manager to specific assignments. And that's why I'm inviting you to this job. We're going to set up a probationary term for, for example, there for 3 months, we're going to define a person for 3 months, three months later, a person is going to report publicly for his work, and we're going to define the final purpose of this. The law allows us to do that. So I invite you to cooperate fully in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u61	Thank you. And Irina Heratchenko's final question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. This is a question from me, from Andrey Parobia, I think, from the whole Parliament to the minister of foreign affairs. Minister, a Ukrainian journalist Roman Suschenka was detained in Moscow this week. The Ukrainian parliamentary delegation will raise questions about the Kremlin’s prisoners next week during the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. But we are concerned about the next question. Is there a Ukrainian Consul’s permission to Roman today? Is there permission from the Ukrainian Consul for Alexander Kolchenk? According to which we know that there is a deterioration in health, and for a very long time our consul sought to meet Mr. Kolchenk too. And in general, what is the situation when Ukrainian diplomats are admitted to Kremlin political prisoners and the admission of the International Committee of the Red Cross to our Ukrainians who are in prison in the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, and thank you to all the people's deputies for their extremely active position, for working together on this. From the very moment of Roman's arrest together, we, first of all by hitting on our friends and partners, our colleagues from Miniformopolitics, assuming, of course, both the world media and non-governmental organizations, are trying to gain consular access to Roman, who is guaranteed by relevant international legal instruments, as Russia has already denied such access. We try to get it, and we hope that it will happen soon. As you may know, Russia today hopes to fabricate charges against him. With regard to the Ringen, unfortunately, the same situation. And that's why we really need a further coordinated position in terms of the pressure of international co-operation, international media and international non-governmental organizations to, in fact, improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Colleagues, we now have a demand from two factions for a break, but they're willing to replace it with a performance. I invite you to speak with Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen! For three weeks we have never been recorded in a government statement; we have taken a break today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u66	The attention of Ukrainian society is now attached to the events at Donbassa. People, especially residents of the border territories, are asking what is going on at Donbass, why our troops are being withdrawn, why terrorists and Russian mercenaries are party to withdrawal agreements. Which will be tomorrow with the front territories, and most importantly tomorrow with our citizens. For more than two years, we have been living under the conditions of the so-called Minsk Accords. After Ilowaysk, the first agreements were concluded, after Debaltsovo, the second. So far, we do not know who was the subject of the negotiations for the provision of the so-called “green corridor” in which thousands of our military were shot after Iloways. We do not know who initiated the monitoring missions together with the Russian military in Debaltsovo. One thing we know is that these territories are now occupied, and Ukraine has lost some 5,000 square kilometres of territory. More recently, the so-called contact group in Minsk received information on the next agreement. It envisages the separation of our Ukrainian troops and the gang formation of Russian mercenaries one kilometer from the line of contact in three settlements: Zolotoye, Luganska Station, Petrovskaya. The inhabitants of these settlements, their neighbours from the frontal territories, have been protesting the withdrawal of our Ukrainian troops over the past few days. They fear that, following the departure of Ukrainian defenders, these territories and their human settlements will be occupied by Russian mercenaries and that the pro-Ukrainian inhabitants of those territories will be facing a brutal massacre by Russian fighters. Such concerns are also expressed by representatives of the Ukrainian authorities. The Head of the Luhansk Military and Civil Administration stated that the implementation of such agreements would result in the loss of Ukraine's control over Stanice Lugansk. Representatives of the Directorate-General for Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine stated on several occasions during the year that Russian mercenaries carried out a lewd seizure of the so-called “buffer gray area” and were preparing new seizures. In addition to the territory of our Ukrainian cities and villages covered with the blood of our military, some sites also leave engineering facilities that the Ukrainian people have been helping to build our army for two years at the cost of large personal sacrifices. The Self-Help faction asks the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of the Constitution and the sovereignty of Ukraine. First. What laws have been designated or legally elected officials of the Ukrainian Power signed the Framework Agreement on the withdrawal of troops? What provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution or the Ukrainian Laws were guided by these persons? Who and on the basis of what legal instruments has given them the authority to sign such decisions on behalf of the State? Who and on what basis gave the command to the Ukrainian Armed Forces to implement these agreements and leave our Ukrainian land. We apply to the Office of the Attorney-General for an offence under articles 353 of the “voluntary exercise of power” and 110 of the “Intentional action taken to change the boundaries of the territory or of the State border of Ukraine” in violation of the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine. A copy of the statement shall be transmitted to the Head of the Supreme Council for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in our meeting. Thank you. Until the next meeting, we thank you for your intensive cooperation with Parliament. Now, according to article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have time to make inquiries. There have been 280 requests for the presidency, and I invite you to read the questions of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. In fact, 248 questions came. That's a little less than last week. And I also want to ask the Self-Help faction once again to join the same platform that was created in Parliament, where full information is provided, including the negotiation process in Minsk. There was this meeting this week, and there were all the factions except Self-Help. Last week a similar meeting took place where Eugene Marchuk, who is conducting these negotiations in a security group, was ready to answer all the questions of the national MPs. Today, too, there will be an appropriate meeting to be held, including Ukrainian diplomats. And it's very important that those people who really want to hear the answers to the questions and hear them, not just use the rostrum to say that there's no information. Thank you for being able to say so. And now came requests from Ukrainian national deputies who needed a vote. This is a request to the President of Ukraine. Jurij-Bogdan Suhević's request to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "Publication is not subject to" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for the former National Deputies of the U.S.R. and the USSR, the former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and the members of their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the termination of the payment of pensions to these persons. We need a roll-call vote now of at least 150 votes to support this request. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's all support the request of the national MP, Mr. Jury-Bogdan Shuhevich. Vote. [[11:25:05]] Z-77 Unfortunately, only 77 votes. I didn't get the right number of votes. Further requests are made to other structures that do not require a vote. And I'm starting to sound them. Viktor Razwadowski’s national deputy to the head of the Zitomir District Council, temporarily acting as head of the Zitomir district government administration for the provision of a school dining hall at the Singapore School of Education, the I-III level of the Zitomir district, the Zitomir district with a hot cabinet, and the establishment of a playground school. Viktor Razwadowski to the Chief of the Motorways Service in the Gitomir region for the capital repair of roads in the Zitomirsk, Lubarski, Romanovsk, and Zitomirsk region. Stanislava Berezkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase since 2016 in the remuneration of disabled athletes to the extent of the awards of Ukrainian athletes to the champions of the Olympic Games. Sergija Eutuska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of property rights of owners of apartments in 16-A on the street Kripijakevich in Kostopil Ravniska oblast. Sergia Eutuska to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to grant a subsidy to compensate for the difference in tariffs on heat and heating, which will enable the debt to be paid to the municipalities of Sarna Rivenska region for the natural gas consumed and to start the heating season of 2016-2017 in a timely manner in the city. Oksana Jurinec to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the creation of a mechanism for implementing the Ukrainian Act of 14 May 2015 No. 425-VII. Andrija Kiselov to head the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to clear up the humanitarian cargo assigned to the Children's Home Center, the City Hospital and the many-child families of the city of Pochrovska Donetsk. Savchenko’s hopes for the director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the renewal of criminal conduct following the supply to the Ministry of Defence of the uniformed clothing (scarpets) that are unfit to wear, due to their inadequacy with technical conditions, totalled 78 million dollars. Savchenko's hopes for the Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert for providing information on the number of contracts concluded between state-owned enterprises that are part of the Ucrobanprom State Concert, which was made during a special period, with enterprises that are not producers under these contracts, or are not directly service providers under service contracts. Constantine Jarinic to the head of the Kirovograd District State Administration for initiating the development of a national programme for radiation and social protection of the population of Kropivnicki and for the public discussion of the concept of the program. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau concerning the conduct of an independent external evaluation (audit) of the activities of NABA. Victor Halasyuk to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the state of implementation of state investment projects. Jury of Peacekeepers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the mandatory compliance with the requirements of the law on free food, clothing, underwear, and shoes of those condemned to be deprived of their liberty. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the right of natural gas suppliers to carry out a census of the amount of gas used by consumers who do not have gas accounting devices during the period of operation of Cabinet Order No. 237 of 29 April 2015. Victor Ostapchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the amendment of the Rules for the Use of Centrally Communal Water and Water Management Systems at the Ukrainian Human Settlements, approved by the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, dated 27 June 2008, No. 190. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the supply of solid fuel to the population. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of amending the legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the non-accounting for revenue from the sale of milk to the population of reprocessing enterprises at the time of the settlement of subsidies for housing and utility costs. Jaroslava Markevich to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the Mamashov family. I'm sorry, one more time. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the U.S.U.S.U. in Zaporozhye region in the formation of the status of ATO participants. Taras Shepherd to the Head of the Ukrainian National Police on Crime Procrastination on 16 March 2013 No. 120131109003558 regarding officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's State Enterprise "Ukrvijsko Bud". Alexia Dustenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the distribution of books and other printed products that affect the integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Alexia Prašenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenko, for the conduct of a revision of the libraries of Ukraine on the availability of books and other printed products affecting the integrity and integrity of Ukraine, demeaning the dignity of Ukrainians, falsifying or distorting the cultural and historical heritage of the Ukrainian people, etc. Jury Pavlenko to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of adequate medical conditions at the Zitomir District Hospital of Herbachevsky’s name. Vadim Yvchenk, Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to prevent the raiding of the private agricultural enterprise Dimitrov in the village of Dobrom Vilshan district of Kirovograd. Vladislav Buharev to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the referral of the deputies of the Sumina region, I'm sorry, the Suma District Council on the need for urgent resolution of issues of concern from the street lighting of the settlements of the Sustina and all of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the construction of the surgical and medical corps of the Suma District Clinic, as well as the capital and current repairs of the premises of the facility. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive and impartial criminal investigation into the death of a military officer. Jaroslava Dubnewich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a comprehensive and impartial investigation into the criminal conduct of the death of a military officer. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the road by road between the city of Beregovo and the village of Astej to an international car pass by Lužanka. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for clarifying some of the changes in the pricing of natural gas, and which is used for the needs of the population in the region of Kyrovograd in 16. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for finding a decision on the renewal of the suburban railway connection in the region of Alexandria. To the Alexandrian region of Kirovograd. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure payment in full each year (by 5 May) of one-time cash assistance to participants in hostilities, to persons with war disabilities and to other categories of citizens who are covered by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the need to lower electricity tariffs or grant municipal payments to residents of multi-family homes (which are excluded from central heating and are not gassed). Vasil Janicky to the city head of Varas District of Ravens to settle the rent of premises of the Education Board of the Executive Committee of the Kuznetsov City Council of the Ravens region. Anton Herashchenka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the state of pretrial investigation of the claims of the authorized National Natural Park "Tuzlovski limans" and the approval of the project of the organization of the territory for the implementation of Presidential Decree No. 1/2010. Anton Heraszczenko to the prosecutor of Kiev on the collective appeal of 36 members of the HBK "Karawi dochi" on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 42015100090000111. Igora Shurma to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the likely falsification of the vaccine against pertussis, diphtheria, polio, haemophilia and the right hand placed in Ukraine in 2016. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing to justice those responsible for failing to implement the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care in the Lviv region, which poses a threat to the health and life of Ukrainian citizens. John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care. John Melniczuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the State Regulatory Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and the HKG on improving the legislative regulation of networking and sewerage, on the safety of their exploitation and on the protection of the environment against pollution, on the slopes, on the slopes of sewage. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the posting on the official web portal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of information on the total number of bills submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, which have become legal acts. Vasila Petíkovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the repair of the road between Mukachev and Zakarpatsk. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Administration to resolve the issue of the establishment of hemodiafiltration equipment in the city of Bousk, Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 9 December 2015 No. 1026 on payments for service of years, assistance for recovery and material assistance for dealing with socio-economic issues for workers in the district, rural and rural People's Houses. Alexander Marchenka to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the existence of signs of disciplinary misconduct in the actions of the examining judge of the Pecher district court of Kiev, Tsokol Larissa Ivanovna, under the orders for a search permit from September 26, 16 in the case of 757/46900/16-k. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, on the recalculation of heating tariffs in connection with changes in air temperature in buildings where the building is not equipped. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the analysis and amendment of regulatory acts with a view to simplifying mechanisms and shortening deadlines for the provision of administrative services to citizens. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Pension Fund, Head of the State Treasury Service to resolve the issue of funding for the compensation of children of war and citizens who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster in accordance with the implementing letters found in the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. Jury Bublika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on failure by officials of the National Police to comply with the requirements of effective legislation and violation of Fisun Dmitr Grigorovitch's right to receive the statutory payment of one-time cash assistance in connection with injury in the performance of service duties with a partial loss of employment. Jury Bublika to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation of the rights of the members of the military’s family, the failure of the military to respond to their application for a pension in connection with the loss of the breadwinner, the lack of control over the proper consideration of the parliamentary appeal, resulting in unreliable information about his execution and the removal of violations. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for quality drinking water for children in Kyiv’s educational institutions Alexander Suprunka to Kiev City Head on the use of conservation measures and the proper functioning of building counters for the calculation of thermal energy in the housing fund in Kiev. Taras Shepherd to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the violation of existing legislation, the rights and interests of the labour force in the appointment of the editor-in-chief of the Ternopil district newspaper Freedom. Vitalia Kupria to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal influence of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Nasalik Igor Stepanovich on the decision of the Council of the Optego Power Market, which destroys nuclear energy and supports DNR and LNR. Vitalia Kupria to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on tender-purchase schemes at the Ukratransgaz PAT, which may result in the provision of services to Ukraine's gas transport system to the aggressor country. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admissive destruction of the utility "Poltavian City Road and Exploitation". Sergey Kaplina to Henprocuror of Ukraine for drawing the head of the 61 Communist Shipyard in Mikolayev to account for not paying his salary. Maxim Burbak to Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for Conservation. ATO member Igor McCulaka is provided with housing. Olesia Long to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Payments of Population Payments for Gas and Failure of the Government’s Order. Sergey Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for filing a claim against the court for the liability of organizations (in paws) of the DNR and (in paws) of the LNR for terrorist activity. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on problems with the movement on the border with Slovakia. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crime against the owners of rations in the village of Ohmatov, in the region of Cherkas. Sergey Melnika to the head of the regional branch of the South West Railway to restore the traffic of the suburban trains No. 6356 along the Hmelnicki-Starocostantins-1 and No. 6355 on the Starocostantins-1-Hmelnicki route. Sergija Melnika to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the Hmelnicki Town Council of unfinished construction and land at the address of: Hmelnicki town, 26 Panas Mirno Street, 29/1. Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchy, Kishkara, Krivenka) to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities to investigate the mass poisoning of homeless animals. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support to the Independent Unit of the State-owned First-Major Coal Company. Alexander Gerega to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine on the environmental situation at the battery plant in the city of Starocostins of the Hmeljna Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the first deputy head of the Kyiv District Administration, head of the Road Service in the Kyiv Region for the construction of a road with a hard cover on the street of the Stadium in the village of Lisovich of the Tarsovian district of Kyiv Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the State Water Agency of Ukraine, the Interregional Environmental Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region for the return to the general use of the Weselokut River Waterplace Gnyliy Tikić in the Tarostian region and for the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janicky, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of pensioners and veterans of the Tax Service of the District of Ravensk. Groups of national deputies (Dejdeja, Kaplina and others, only 6 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for carrying out a background check on corruption by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Sergey Lechchenk and Svetlana Zaleszczuk, and to submit relevant information to the ERDF. Constantine Jarinic to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at providing children with disabilities with technical means, namely baby diapers. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor for the use of Russian air space in Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Ternopil district administration, the head of the Ternopil district council, the head of the Ternopil district council of Ternopil district, the head of the Coastal Regional Administration of the Ternopil district, on the situation that resulted from the halting of the transfer of premises and land to the property of the community of the monastery of St. John the Baptist. Victor Ostapchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cost of maintaining health care and vocational and technical education from local budgets. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise "The State Miraculous Grenading Plant" for the transfer to the municipal property of a part of the property of the State Miraculous Grenading Plant. Andrija Illenka is head of the Kyiv City State Administration, who is responsible for the headship of the Righteous District in Kiev of the State Administration for introducing the issue of the capital repair of asphalt cover in Bratislava, 7th and 9th Street in the Desnian Region. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Director General of the Kiyivenergo Public Shareholders Association, on the inadequate sanitary and technical condition of the central heat station at the Lisovi Prospect, 9th in the Righteous Region of the capital. Groups of National Deputies (Besbach, Matvienkova, Husaka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation in rail freight transport. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine for the financing of the program "State Credit for Individual Farmers for Construction (Renovation) and Housing". Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the protection of the social rights of Ukrainian citizens who have become adoptive. Olesia Long to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the Agreement on Cooperation between the Governments of Ukraine and the United States of America in the field of science and technology. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of the main assets of the Novojavorian DP "Ekotransenergo" and the Novojavorovska DHP "Sirka", initiating the issue of attracting officials responsible for financial equipment and multimillion-dollar business losses, and providing information on business managers over the past five years. Alexia Lensky to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture for the Protection of the Historical and Cultural Acquisitions of the Ukrainian Church Nation in Lubachev, which is the center of the cultural and spiritual life of Ukrainians and of all the loving land and is part of the city’s architectural monuments and the contribution of repairs to the 800th century of the ancient city of Lubachev, the use of appropriate response measures. Andrija Shinkovič, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the maintenance of the stationary office of 24 hours in the village of Antonina Krasilov district of Hmelni district. Andrija Shinkovič is head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the non-execution of powers by the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the weak staffing of the National Police in the Mikolayevsk Region and the inadequate provision of law and public security by the National Police in the Mikolayivsk Region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a pass point and a car transition towards Lopushanka ( Turko district of Lviv district) Michnovec, Republic of Poland Sergija Matvienkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of additional gas consumption for the absence of centralized hot water supply for the presence of an electric water heater. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the amount of funds arrested in bank institutions in the accounts of former seniors of the Janukovic regime and other property. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, who is temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Vinnick district government, Vinnicko District Council on the basis of the relevance of the retraining of the Ladzhina boarding house into a psycho-nerological institution and the violation of the rights of children with physical disabilities. Vassil Janicky, head of the Vladimir District State Administration. The Provincial Regional Regional Administration of the Region, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "Rineoblanergo" concerning the conduct of the electricity line in the territory of the Zabolottov Rural Council of the Volodimirecki District of the Plain region. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take measures to treat citizens who need to be sent abroad. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to support domestic metallurgical enterprises and pipeline factories. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental disaster on the Baraniv River. Tatyana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent development and adoption of national health targets for the fight against cardiovascular diseases, cancers, hepatitis, tuberculosis, immunoprophylaxis, reproductive health of the nation, etc. Sergija Vlasenka to the head of the High Council of Justice for receiving information on the number of judges recommended by the Supreme Council of Justice to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for violating the oath between September 1, 2014 and September 30, 2016. Dmitry Timchuk to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for clarification on the terms of the state-owned enterprise's credit agreement "The Zitomir Armoured Plant". Romana Maczola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing government budget expenditure into line with the revenue from the target assembly, approving the statutory grant from the State budget to finance socio-economic measures to compensate the population risk that resides in the area of observation. Romana Maczola to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, on the issue of the approval and financing of Slavuta's public budget objects, in accordance with Decision No. 412 of the Minister of State and the report of the State Treasury Office on the change of the annual budget allocations for 2016. Paul Kishkar and Viktor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Foundation for Social Protection from accidents in production and occupational diseases in Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on deliberate, beneficial grounds for bankruptcy of the Open Stock Exchange Society, the "Herson cotton combination" and the inactivity of the State Property Fund of Ukraine during bankruptcy proceedings. Victor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Public Shareholders Association for Gas Supply and Gasification of Dnipropetrovskgas, the Public Shareholders Association of Dniprovagonmash regarding the abuse of monopoly by Dniprovagonmash Public Shareholders and the immediate involvement of domestic natural gas consumers on the eve of the heating season. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kiskar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian State Department, the Ukrainian State Enterprise, the Ukrainian Security Training Centre, the Ukrainian State Property Rental Fund, the Uzin Air Force. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of medical subsidies for the work of medical workers at the Corsatene Central Hospital of the Corstene District Council of the Žitomir Region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debt on subsidies to utilities providers. Oleksija Hončarenko to the head of the SBU, the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Henprocuror of Ukraine for the personal control of the verification of the circumstances and facts that led to the approval of the judge of the Odessa District Economic Court by Green Hennady Mikolajovic of the judgment in Court case No.916/4747/15 on the bankruptcy of the Pat Odeski Oil Processing Plant, which is recognised by the money requirements of the company Empson Limited (Republic of Cyprus) and its subsidiary, the Associations with limited responsibility of "Energy and Gas Ukraine", the final beneficiary of which is Kurchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, and the formation of the debt owed to them by Pat "Odeskijski vorje vytvoj vykutoví pravítovítovítovítoví prijem prijem prijem přímímítovítovím pítovímímíčítovímních vítítoví, vítovítovítovístovích ví, vístítítítovítovístovístístíku víku, vítítístístím ví izí izí izíku, vítíkíkíkíkíkíkík víkík víkíkík vík vích vích vík vík víkíkíkíkítíkíkíkíkíkíkítíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíkík víkík ví Jury of Peacekeepers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to end the torture of those sentenced to imprisonment, the removal of inhumane working conditions in correctional colonies Nos. 43 and No. 100 in the Kharkiv region. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Reserve Budget for treatment abroad of a 7-year-old resident of the city of Brovary Kyiv district, as well as other children who need urgent medical treatment abroad. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil State Administration, Head of the Ternopil District Council for the Payment of Remuneration from the Employees of the State Institute of Post-Hungarian Higher Vocational School of the Crimea Region of Ternopil. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on granting status as a warlord to residents of the Ternopil region who participated in the construction of defence structures in the east of Ukraine. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on solving the chemical problems of Ukraine. Taras Batenka to the head of the Lviv District Council, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the change in the route schedule and the restoration of the arrival of bus routes to the city of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Shevchenko and others – only 6) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the number of violations of the Constitution, the current legislation of Ukraine by officials of local self-government during the process of voluntary unification of communities in Novogalestina, a united territorial community with a centre in the village of Nova Galeščina Kremencuccik district of Poltav region. Groups of National Deputies (Katzer Buchkowski, Černovol and others). A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the legality of the investor's competition for the implementation of the Agreement on the Distribution of Hydrocarbons, which will be mined within the Yuszowska District. There are still questions left. I'm continuing my morning session for 15 minutes, dear colleagues. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of a certified copy of the official translation from English to the tex language of the letter of intent to the International Monetary Fund and the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy. Dmitra Sphenov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates the state's energy and utilities regulations on the use of emergency measures to prevent citizens' rights being violated when gas counters are installed. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for due consideration by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, refer to the decision of the Equality District Council of September 8, 2016. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the report of the outcome of the criminal investigation on 24 July 2014. Jury Timoshenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ensuring the proper investigation of criminal conduct No. 120160900180000000256. Vladimir Parasuka to the Rector of Kharkiv National University of Karazin regarding the refusal of the leadership of Kharkiv National University of Karazin to ensure proper measures to honor the memory of the fallen hero, an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Miroslav Misla, who graduated from the university. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the settlement of the conflict between the Lviv Railway and residents of villages of the city type Brukhovici, Rasna-Rusca and the villages of Podrasna Lviv region. Andrija Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the capital repair of the Lokomotiv Sports Palace in Krivi Rig. Andrija Galchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the extremely unsatisfactory state of road cover TO 434. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the charge of persons who took part in crimes during the Dignity Revolution and against the national interests of the State. Andrija Vadatursky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the illegal granting of permits by military forces to natural and legal persons to cultivate agricultural crops, feed livestock, and harvest hay on the lands of defense given to them on a permanent basis. Andrija Vadaturski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal exploitation of Ukrainian state land by allowing the military commanders to exercise their economic activities. Sergei Vlasenka, head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for information and clarification. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to prevent discrimination against the rights of believers in obtaining passports. Roman Semenha to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction, HKG, Minister of Energy, Coal Industry for the clarification of order (methodics) and the establishment of regional adjustment coefficients to calculate the level of expenditure in the field of the HKG. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to hold a competition for the head of the State Department of Geology and Nadr. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, for measures aimed at the release of an illegally imprisoned citizen in the territory of the Russian Federation, Vygovsky Valentin Petrovich. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funding for the capital repair of the road from the village of Narodicí to the town of Malin through the village of Basar of the Žitomir region. Paul Dzublik to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on an immediate response to violations of environmental legislation by Gross Avenue Farm near the village of Zabilocz in the region of Žitomir. Oksana Bilozer to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine to ensure adequate funding for child implantation systems. Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that took place at the Public Shareholders Association of the Dniprovi Metcombinate of Kamyansk Dnipropetrovsk Region and the Public Shareholders of the Mining and Enriching Company of the City of Marganza Dnipropetrovsk Region as a result of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the lists of production, work, occupations, positions, employment, entitlement to retirement on extended terms, and the request to consider revoking the Cabinet of Ministers decision No. 461 of 24 June 16. Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that took place at the I-III public education school in grade 3 of Marganza Dnipropetrovské district and is a complete inability to put a school into work during the fall-winter period. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the illegal export, import and disposal of garbage at the Vynitz County Cemetery and the need for a centralized solution to the waste disposal issue in Ukraine. Ruslan Demchak to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, for carrying out a legal check of compliance with the procedure for the allocation of land in the Illenic region by the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Winnick region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin Regional Administration, Head of the Visnik Regional Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region on the free feeding of the students of the initial classes of the Migów Educational and Educational Complex. John Ribak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, Head of the Provincial District State Administration of the Chernivecko Region, on the change of the status of the roadway O26003, the village of Beregomet in the Chernivecki region. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on ensuring the freedom of the world and religion of Ukrainian citizens, the parishioners of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the prevention of interfaith religious hostility and the refusal of the raiding of Ukrainian Orthodox Church temples. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the possible illegal actions of the arbitration officer in the establishment of the original value of the property. Ljubomir Zubak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Council on the problem of the development and approval of the Lviv Region's Strategic Plan of Areas. Borislav Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the KP Director "Zitlorembudservis" Viacheslav Bobrikin and the acting head of the rightful district administration of Krohmaluk. Eduard Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of a group of directors of Odessa District vocational and technical education institutions in the interests of the labour and student groups of public educational institutions, in view of the complex situation that has taken place during the previous and current year in their functions, the need to verify the relevant decisions of the district authorities regarding the provision and organization of their work, the implementation of the Law on the State Budget for 2016 and the non-compliance guaranteed by the current legislation of Ukraine with the rights of listed groups of citizens. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need to provide comprehensive legal assistance and to ensure an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa of Lebedinsky Veronica of Mikolayivna for the restoration of her constitutional rights to inheritance and residence. Jury Derevyanka to the director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocurorate on the need to examine the need to investigate the offences committed by the officials of the Kyiv district’s procurator’s office and H.O.B.U. in Kiev and Kyiv district, including in connection with criminal conduct in relation to Momot’s High Town Head, reported in the address of a citizen of Rapota. Jury Devyanka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the provision of an objective, comprehensive and comprehensive trial in criminal proceedings open to officials of the Public Shareholders Association of Kirovogroblanergo. Roberta Gorvato to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the restoration of the pedestrian movement on the border of Ukraine with the Slovak Republic. Jurya Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of the design documents of the Public Shareholders Association "Drobic Car Cranes Plant". Jury Berezi to the head of the National Police Department of Ukraine for the restoration of the police police force regiment of the special assignment "Dnipro-1" of the National Police Department in Dnipropetrovsk. Alexander Livik to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of Ukrainian law by the management of the Ukrainian State Postal Service and the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) In total, the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, the Ukrainian Defence Minister, the deputy of Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor, is responsible for providing information on the status of the return of property of Dnipropetrov military hospital No. 385 to state property. Jury Levchenka is headed by the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the non-admissibility of illegal construction on Sichov Sagittarius Street, 59 and for the improper consideration of the MP's appeal No. K-1139/1153 of September 19, 2016. Jury Lewchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of legislation by workers of the Solomon District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, which took place on June 11, 2015, during a search on the street of Sadowi. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ariev and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the crossing of the state border by foreign citizens during the so-called "primeres" at ORDLO on October 2, this year. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the failure to provoke against the head of the political party's opposition block at the Igor Djetlov City Council of Mikolayev. And Dmitri Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval of the order and conditions of repayment in 2016 of the difference in tariffs for central water supply and water supply services produced, transported and/or other central water supply and water supply enterprises that provide services to the population from central water supply and water supply. Dear colleagues, that was the last question. I'd like to ask the representatives of the self-help faction I'm very honored to apologize. I think there's been a misunderstanding. I really think that the question that, well, as far as the mine format is concerned, they're very important. And what I'm saying is that we're open to talking about what's going on in the negotiations. Perhaps after that you will have even more questions and criticism, perhaps less. And just call again, well, ask them then. Thank you very much. And, dear colleagues, I announce a break of 30 minutes, until 12:35. Unfortunately, we don't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sir, I don't want to mention your last name, because you're going to take the floor right now. But, Mr. Oleg, you know I can't announce a speech and a recording right now, because there's a break under the Rules. In order for us to cancel, we must vote. I can put an end to the vote, but there's no 226. That's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:37 we return to the session room, and the speeches of the national deputies will begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please, all those who are planning to appear under the heading "Rizzne", which we traditionally have on Fridays after recess, please return to the session room. Now, they're telling me to sign up, I'm still here. We wait 20 seconds for everyone to return to the session room who would like to participate. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a recording of the national MPs' speeches on various issues. Please include all who would like to share in this feature, the traditional Friday. Please join the self-help faction, please. What? So you can sign up so there's no such thing as a question. Thank you. Guys, we're working till 2:00, and I hope that everyone who's left in the session room who wants to speak will take part in this discussion. Please invite Mr. Rizanenko from the Peter Dust Block to the performance. He conveys the word to the national deputy Saul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u70	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to, I think, the historic decision made yesterday by the Ukrainian Parliament, particularly the decision to set up a road fund in Ukraine. It's extremely important that we have the strength to do things in the process of solving issues -- the question of roads. The majority of the world’s economies, their economic growth, were primarily linked to the restoration of infrastructure. Ukraine has often sought its way, but I am deeply convinced that the main driver of our nation's economic development must be the development of infrastructure, reconstruction and construction of new roads. I can give you this in particular, for example, in the Kosovsky and the Highlands, where in the last year and this year, we have managed together to restore the "gold horseshoe" Carpathian road R-24. What did this result in? This summer, it was virtually impossible to find vacant places in hotels in the territory of Gutzulščina. Today, about ten new hotel complexes begin their construction in Gutsulsk. Taxes on local budgets have increased by 30 percent as a result of the restoration of the gold horseshoe. This is a concrete result of the fact that one bracelet that we put in the infrastructure provides feedback in the form of three, and sometimes 10 bracelets, in the form of tax returns to the local budget and in the form of new jobs in our country. And that is why I am addressing all parliaments as soon as possible to adopt the approval of the Road Fund Act on second reading. This law gives two innovations. First of all, he did. The cost of gas tariffs clearly addresses road problems. And second of all, what's important in the Road Fund Act is that today, to our regions that need to go to Kiev with an extended hand to get money on the road, this practice ends with law. This law makes it clear that 35 percent of all the government’s spending on petrol excises is automatically diverted to the region, and they are targeted, and they should be spent exclusively on road repairs. Therefore, I am convinced that most parliamentarians support this decision. And I'm addressing all of us as quickly as possible to amend and, in general, vote in favour of the Road Fund Act so that we can talk about road traffic by 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u71	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u72	So we can say that road infrastructure will be the focus of the development of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. We now have the invitation of the National Deputy Igor Lucenko of Fatherland. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear friends, a little bit of statistics. Crime increased by 25 percent this year, the number of robberies increased by 40 percent, the number of robberies increased by 30 percent, and the number of kidnappings increased by 16 percent. Do you know how they try to defend the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Police against these, sufficiently obvious and all-clear evidence of their unprofessionalness? They say, "And you know, we have economic problems, which is why people rob, kill and kidnap cars." So this is from a point of view even a lie. Now, of course, in the economy, it's not an easy situation, but the basic national accounts now don't indicate that there's such an extraordinary social crisis that can really drive people out of the streets and into a robbery. Since the beginning of the year, the gross domestic product has grown slightly by more than 1 percent. Well, a stable situation, a steady but stable situation. The average wage has increased by 17 percent since the beginning of the year. It's a nominal increase, but the inflation index has only increased by 5 percent, so it's a real increase in income, it's at least a minimum, but it's a hope. In fact, the economy has now reached the bottom, and there's every chance that it's going to push away from this bottom. So when Avakov and Decanoidze tell us that everything is so bad in the economy, it's definitely not true, it's no reason to think that the sums of their activities deserve the grades they want. We can't help but mention the legislative innovations that are now actually working for the collapse of the law enforcement system. For a long time, the police had no operational-search authority. For a long time, investigators did not have the authority of investigators. After all, like Ukraine, I can't say about the nature of the behavior of Habakkuk and Decanoidze. They show that they do not use the national language to break the law. They show contempt for the language law in their activities. How can we do that when we are at war with Russia when we are at war? What example is given to our legal guardians? After all, these people haven't worked in the police, not in the police, not anywhere. These people are not law enforcement. And as a logical result, this is the complete collapse of the system in which they try to control it. Thousands of crimes, ruined fate. That is why I call on our Parliament to take responsibility and to make human resources decisions. This Ministry of Internal Affairs leadership deserves immediate replacement. They've proven their professional incompetence and are now trying to save themselves from claims that the police lack some authority, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u75	Next up is Boris Tarasyuk. But he's passing on his three minutes to Mr. Lucenka. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u76	Thank you. And they ask for the authority of the police, who, in principle, are now professionally incompetent to carry out their duties. That is why I believe that Parliament must now intervene in this situation, ask questions about the responsibility of the minister, about the responsibility of the head of the National Police. In the end, we chose the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau at an open competition. We choose other organs -- leadership -- in open competitions. Why was the head of the National Police appointed? Where are Ukrainian professionals anyway? Isn't there a 40 million people in a country who have experience working with the police who are able to run this law enforcement agency? That's one question. Thank Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk for giving me his time. I wanted to talk about the fight against corruption, a particular painful subject. Unfortunately, today, this system of fighting corruption, and the concept of our legislation, clearly, is not coping with corruption. Corruption triumphs over this reform. The creation of new Karan Repressive Organs such as NAMU, NAMK is, of course, not bad, it's an additional aid. But the main fight against corruption is, from world practice, the interaction of public organizations and those authorities of the state that oversee the rule of law. As such, as we have a function of monitoring the legality of officials, the MPs were eliminated on October 14, 14, our state has been shown to have removed from the supervision of its own representatives in terms of their lack of respect for the rule of law. So any corruption scheme discovered by the public by journalists is now impossible to eliminate, but the only way is to go to court with ordinary citizens and prove that all of this has to be overturned is by legislation, for example, like the Kyivrada watersheds. There used to be a prosecutor’s office, a body that was responsible for bringing everything to the requirements of the law. Now complain to no one. My dear fellow MPs, you know what, 90 of your appeals to the D.A., to the D.A., to the D.A., to the police are all appeals under the so-called general supervision, that is to say, the requirement to bring to justice the activities of the public authorities. And now you're missing this function, and of course you're getting discounts, and of course you're indignant. So understand that this function needs to be restored in part to the supervision of officials, to the activity of deputies, to other subjects of public law. It's the only way to fight corruption, not by creating penal organs that haven't worked properly for a few years, because they're working now. I urge you to come back and rethink the concept of general oversight, create a so-called only window where any citizen, a national MP, a common man could complain and let it be the only window, let it be in the prosecutor's office, let it be in the NAMU or NAMC, wherever it is, but so that they can complain about the facts of corruption and let it be criminal or non-criminal, judicial or non-judicial, but in any way, it is the duty of the state not to get confused in this case who is to investigate. Even the officials themselves can't figure out what to say about a common citizen right now. This concept, we have to go back to it, and this concept needs to be implemented. In any state of the world there is supervision of law enforcement by officials and MPs, our country is unfortunately now just cracking at the seams because there is no such function. So let's go back to this concept and implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. And please welcome to the floor the government of the Dove of "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u78	Of course, they just gave Boris Tarasyuk three minutes. I informed our secretary's bed to keep track of the time, Your Honor, and thank you for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u79	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. I would like to begin by thanking Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, who today, during "hours of questions to the Government", announced that a service check would be conducted regarding Russian citizen Mr. Polosov, who is currently acting as director of the Ukrainian strategic firm Ukrhimtransamak. Because if we look particularly at his flight to the aggressor country in the 11th to 13th years when Yanukovich's regime and Putin's regime killed our hero boys in Maidan, he flew to the aggressor, so it felt like holy water. So I welcome the decision made by Vladimir Borisovich, and I would like to thank you for standing up for the very Ukrainian interests. But that's not what I'm talking about today. Today, I would like to raise questions about two resonant criminal cases that are being conducted by the National Police Department of the Cherkas region. The first issue is the purchase of housing for participants in an anti-terror operation, the second criminal case is the disposal of property, the state funds during the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Złotonosza. Both in the first and second cases, the investigators are now conducting appropriate procedural investigations. But given that the customer of services in one case was one of the departments of the Cherka district government, otherwise another department of the same district government, in some strange coincidence, these criminal cases are somehow not progressing. With regard to the purchase of housing for participants in an anti-terror operation, they were purchased at a price of 14.5,000 dollars per square metre in the primary housing market in Chercasí. A banal analysis of the primary market shows that the average cost of housing in Chercas is about 9,000 dollars per square metre. And there should be no annual follow-up when there are appropriate financial verifications. But somehow they're being held. That's why I'm calling on the Minister of Internal Affairs and, Irina Volodymyryn, I'm asking you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request and to instruct the Supreme Council's Office to take control of two cases, such as those of 125250000292, as well as 420162500000012. And to give an answer to society, why our citizens' government spending is being spent, and someone, even the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u80	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u81	The authorities are making money on this. If we return to the reconstruction of the gold mine, the state has spent nearly 100 million dollars there in the last three years. But there's a problem in Goldilocks on the cleaners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. The only thing I can't do is form it as a parliamentary request, but as a reference. I'm asking you to make Vladislav Dove's speech as a parliamentary address. Yet, you need to draw up a request in the same way that it will be in line with the Rules. National MP Skuratovski gives the floor to his colleague Victor Vuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u83	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! The last march of Putina, with the end of an agreement on the disposal of weapons plutonium, is a further announcement by the Kremlin of the New Cold War of the West. Putin crossed another red line, this time in the field of nuclear safety. Putin systematically crosses the borders one by one and maximizes the rates before he hopes to launch a big geopolitical trade with the new US President to take office in January next year. Putin’s prospects for nuclear co-operation were absolutely unfulfilled: until the end of a series of American laws, the lifting of all Western sanctions, the payment of Russia’s compensation for the damage caused by these sanctions, and even its own contraventions. Putin continues to play the role of a crackpot acting on the principle of "or anything or nothing." The method of blackmailing the civilized world he has chosen is to create and deepen international problems, to produce and spread fear, which is an international racketeer who is willing to provide security to the international community and to give it peace in exchange for a fee. The salary required by Putin is the elimination of artificials. The pay that Putin requires for the elimination of the artificial problems and threats he has created, is recognition of his imperial geopolitical ambitions, recognition of the Russian monopoly in post-radian space, the zone of influence in much of Europe, participation as a key player in the Middle East and other Kremlin challenges. The script of the nuclear blackmailer Putin is a world with international anarchy, fear and war against everyone who can be parasitic, providing services of pseudo-security. In the boyish world, Putina beats and oppresses the weak, and the racketeering service is completely needed and profitable. Putin as a racketeer understands only strength, and weakness deeply despises and uses it for his own good. So the policy of appeasement of an international bully and an aggressor from the West only convinces him that there are some weak people around who need to be pushed to the right conclusion. Because of Putin’s challenge, the international community today is at a crossroads: to accept a world that has become chaotic, where the right of a strong one prevails, or to fight for a civilized world with the rule of law and moral imperative. The world that awaits us in the 21st century is being decided primarily in Ukraine, which by force of the spirit of the Ukrainians has become the bulwarks of this civil battle. Oleg Lachka's radical party is underlining.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u84	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u85	Oleg Láška's Radical Party emphasizes that we have to do everything we can to stop Putin. At this time the weaknesses of the world’s leaders must be strong on their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. And now Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin of "The Will of the People" is invited to the floor. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I also address the inhabitants of Žitomirščina, particularly the Wyborska District and especially the Barani district. Six months ago, I made several parliamentary inquiries to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the poisoning of the rivers of Gomorrah and the rivers of the West. It's determined by the investigation that this is the result of the activity of the Poninkow cardboard factory, the cardboard-paper combination. Results are zero. For days again, toxic wastes, mass destruction of fish, and water cannot be used. And I'll remind you that, among other things, a city like Novograd-Wolinski, 56,000 people also use water from the Svet River. I was given obvious demands on behalf of the people, the first person to own the business because they acted presumptuously and cynically despite any prohibitions. Moreover, only under the cover of a special police department, the prosecutor’s office, was able to enter the premises of this company. From all accounts, the trails stretch upwards into Kiev. The other one. To have the National Academy of Sciences investigate what toxic substances are and what needs to be done to clean up the water, to allocate the necessary funds, to do the necessary work at the expense of the Ukrainian Cabinet Reserve Fund, and finally to stop the company's activities at the time of the investigation. You think that what was the reaction to that call at the company stop was sent. Well, it's clear where to go to court. But they're poisoning. I address, ask and demand the Prime Minister, and, by the way, the chairman here is, if he says, an MP's request is made by a parliamentary request under the Rules. I stress to you once again, it's a question of the MPs. Well, consider it a parliamentary request. And the question is, what do people have to do there: stop the Kiev-Chop route, get out on the street? No one's gonna hear them, far away from Kiev. Is it possible to take this water and drink it to those who are responsible, and who gives the discounts? Let them drink this water once, and they will likely make the necessary decisions very quickly. This activity is absolutely amazing, and the department of profile is getting a write-off. And the essence comes to what? Monitor the environmental situation. Monitoring is done, people are sick, you can't use water, you can't go up to the riverbank two kilometers away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u88	Let me finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u89	And I ask you this address, this statement is considered a question of parliament, there are no other elements of influence in the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. And I would like to stress once again that, according to the Rules, this is the MP's address that I'm asking to form, and the question, it's being formulated and read as a parliamentary request. I'm asking you to make Mr. Litwin's speech as a parliamentary address. And I now give the floor, please, to the national deputy, Mr. Suhevich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u91	Ukrainian people, they're betraying you again. In Minsk, the so - called distribution of troops was signed at four points. The Ukrainian Armed Forces have withdrawn their weapons, the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be removed soon from four points: Gold, Starilugan, Petrovsky. But at the same time, Russia and its mercenaries are not taking them away. This means that the separatists will come with our troops. That's where the criminal authority "DNR," "LNR," if that's what you call power. You're sold out, you're betrayed. And by no means did the residents of Walnovah go out on the street demanding that the President and the government do something to prevent them from being taken away from the separatists. But we have deaf people, we want to serve in front of the West, who will spit on Ukraine. And they just want to please what they're told to sign in Minsk and do, do, do. When, then, will we gain our dignity and stand up for our own interests? When? You see, today I'm addressing Husband, Chief of General Staff, he as a military had to go to the government and say what you're doing. It's not there. And that is betrayal, and once again betrayal! Guys, you're being sold! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u92	Thank you for your performance. Please welcome Oksana Korchinska, a representative of the Radical Party. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u93	Praise Jesus Christ! What interests our fighters on the front? They are not only interested when the war is over. They wonder what will happen to them or their families if they are injured, if they are seriously injured, or if they die. They are interested when they return from war to see portraits of their dead brothers throughout the city. They are interested in having a day of mourning in their cities when they were killed by their brothers. And they ask why the police were killed, there was a day of mourning, why, when the fighters are killed, the city does not declare a day of mourning. They are interested that when they are brothers or they become disabled after the war, there are pandas in all the cities of Ukraine so that they can go to the authorities on carts or crutches so that they can see a concert or go to a movie. They don't have that option right now. My address is now from tens of deputies, and you're getting everybody: local, rural, district and district authorities -- our demand from the national MPs. You must care for the families of those who have died, and you must care for those who have been disabled since the war. We've had a few months, we, the national deputies, have been fighting to turn over the boys, the families of the dead fighters and the disabled and the groups of apartments. No apartments are currently issued through the governors, through district budgets, because until the Ministry of Social Policy has unlocked the budget. In the past year, by that time, every city, every area of the city, tens of thousands of people, had already received their homes. They're good, they're bad quality, but they got it. And now it's not happening. I have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers. Why, when the national deputies two weeks ago made a request. The health complex, which built Arbuzov for 50 million for the National Bank of Ukraine, is a non-target asset of the National Bank when they refuse to do so, they do not transfer it to the disabled ATO and the Paralympics who are worthy in this complex on the Left Bank to engage in and become paralympics, but are given to stick to the purpose of privatization. Why does the NBA, which built the base in the Gulf of Odessa, not put ATO disabled people to rehabilitation, but also lend them to self-sustainment? Under what right does what is built for government money not go to the aid and rehabilitation of our people with disabilities? Why, so far, two years later, we have not created the only center for the spinal disease of our people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u94	Come on, please. How much do you need? 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u95	We haven't created a single centre for ATO spinal veterans, and now all their families, volunteers every month are looking for 100,000 dollars to rehabilitate one fighter, and they have to stay in these centers for 6 to 14 months. We haven't made it yet. That's why we, the people's deputies, demand that Kabmin now be approved to help fund the creation of the only national centre in the Plains region, the city of Klevni of veterans of war, which is the only building in Ukraine now has a new building that is possible for the adoption of our passports.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, for the topic. And please form this as the official address of the Corchinsky People's Deputy to the appropriate official structures. And now the word is given to the representative of the People's Front, the People's Deputy Babenko. He gives the floor to his fellow national MP, Korchik, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u97	Good day, distinguished TV set, good day, distinguished colleagues. I'd like to stop at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Minister Igor Zhdanov was present and reported on performances at the Olympic Games. And I'd like to say that maybe our Olympics didn't take as many medals in Rio as we'd like, but please tell us what other international ratings we can boast about where we are at 25th place: maybe by some sort of freedom of speech rating, maybe by business rating, maybe by job creation or investment rating? In the Summer Olympics in Rio Ukraine, more developed economies such as Poland, Belgium, Turkey, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Ireland, and so on. Hence, the result is not in itself bad. The minister rightly said: We need to draw conclusions and move on, and we have the potential. The record third place of Ukraine in the Paralympics of 2016 is also the fruit of the joint work of the Ministry and the Olympic Committee. In the end, I would like to thank our Olympics once again for their worthy performance and wish for the next victory as well. To work, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor. As a result of such difficult arrangements for deputies to change them there on the list of speakers, now the People's Deputy Shipko, and then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u99	Good afternoon. Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nicopol city, Pochrov city, Nicopolsk district Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today, when we look each other in the face, we can honestly say: Medical care for the population of Ukraine. We have approached this state of health today: either we need to legitimize the payment of medical services at the expense of our own citizens' money, which is a direct violation of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, or we need to introduce compulsory health insurance. Whatever changes in concepts, reforms, they've been written for years, they've been approved; every new minister is doing his thing, and people are dying in the meantime. It's only from cardiovascular diseases that 500,000 people die every year. Think about it, in two years, we're wiping out a millionaire city on the map of Ukraine. How long are we gonna wait? Now we have a real opportunity with you to do what they've been talking about for 20 years. And we have good news. At the last meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, the draft Law 4981 on compulsory social insurance was adopted. I'm talking to everyone who wants to protect people, make real changes in the country and give people the right to quality and affordable medical care, to support this bill in the first reading. I'm going to give you a little bit of principle. First. Medical insurance in Ukraine can and will work. It does not require changes to the Constitution, it is a myth and fiction of those who now benefit from such a health situation. The other one. No one's gonna pay for pension insurance. That's not true. The State has the resources to provide every pensioner, every unemployed person, and every child with affordable medical care. There's a medical subsidy. Unfortunately, she is now paying for the walls in hospitals, and she has to pay for specific medical services. And no one's in their pocket. In the pocket of people, they're lying down now that everyone in so-called free medicine is paying for everything. And the third. Everyone who works will be insured: both budgeted, and those who work for small, large enterprises, all of them. The insurance will be paid, not by the employee, but by the employer. The size of the contribution is not attached to the payroll fund, it is determined annually by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it is the same for all. All these points are clearly set out in draft Law 4981. For a year, national MPs, cosponsors of the bill, medical professionals, and experts worked on it. Please consider my statement to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health by the MP regarding the immediate introduction of compulsory social health insurance in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u100	Thank you. I'd like you to make a presentation by Deputy Shipp as a matter of law. And now Oleg Lazko, he also has these changes in our performance for six minutes. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Ukrainian citizens because unfortunately, the great Parliamentary Hall has remained a unit of deputies and a full-scale faction of the Radical Party. The situation in the Hall shows that one of the most urgent changes to the Constitution, which should be, is the reduction in the number of MPs in Parliament, that's how many are in the room right now, that's how many Parliaments should be. Because when people spend billions on the maintenance of the Supreme Council and MPs don't think it's necessary to come to parliament, work, earn a huge salary, benefits, the status of their untouchable, I think it's a disgrace to every Ukrainian. Because every person in the election doesn't care what party they vote for, but they hope that the political powers they choose or the MPs will do their best to make their Ukrainians live better. Sadly, many do not live up to human expectations. Yesterday, I want to say, it was a historic day in this Parliament's Hall, although unfortunately most of the TV channels have been silent in some way, it's the adoption of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, which, by the initiative of the Radical Party faction, continued until 2018. We consider this decision of Parliament to be crucial. I mean, we've made a huge, titaniumic effort. Politics is said to be the art of compromise, and we were able to convince, including those who were already on the land market yesterday, that they should support a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Because in today's conditions, respected Ukrainians, those who tell you that when there is a sale of land, a heavenly manna will come, an investor – don't believe it, it's all from the wicked one. This is said to be free of charge for the taking of the earth. Remember how we were told in the 1990s that in exchange for the real industrial enterprises that our moms and parents raised, and our grandparents on their hill, they told us that an investor was coming, but here are your vouchers. Who's got those vouchers? Nothing. Instead, an oligarchic regime was built in Ukraine in 25 years. And the whole country's economy works for a dozen families instead of working for every Ukrainian citizen. So yesterday's decision by Parliament, which the Radical Party faction has reached adoption, is my law, and I thank all the MPs who have voted, provides an opportunity to get another year for a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Is the situation normal in the village today? No, it's not. Does it suit us? No, it's not. Because everyone who travels to the village sees our prophet, saying, "The village is as burning as if the people had gone mad. And they shall lead their children into the forest." Because today the villagers and the village have been transformed into beggars because they have taken the state, they have canceled any state policy to support the village. The head of the cattle is gone, and transnational corporations are sowing technical crops that provide quick income but at the same time deprive the villagers of their jobs. Young people run like hell from the village. That's why we have to use this time for a moratorium to adopt laws in Parliament that will raise a village that will allow the peasants to earn what they grow. What does the Radical Party faction suggest? From the following year to return VAT to farmers. So that peasants who earn their money don't have to be expelled from the state. We demand that the state provide credit, support, subsidies for cattle. And it's not for shoplifters, it's for intermediaries, it's for every peasant family. She took a cow to get at least 4 or 5 thousand dollars a month for a grant. We require Parliament to adopt the Law on Minimum Prices for Milk 5 Grinds per liter. Because 2.30-2.50 per liter of milk, which is now being bought into peasants, and 15 dollars per liter of milk in a grocery store, is a clean water ripper. And we're asking the government to raise the price of milk from Parliament and set the value of a liter of milk of basic fat to 5 grams per liter. Next. The plague of closing schools and hospitals in the village. That means there will be no village. And so when we're told about medicine reform, about education reform, it's not the mechanical closure of schools and hospitals, it's primarily the availability of medical and educational services and their quality. We demand that the government restore state funding to vocational and technical education institutions. Because there are mostly orphans, children of rural families, children of low-income families. And no one granted the right to deprive these children of their skills, their employment skills, and their employment potential. Because today we're asking, we have reformers, ministers and governors, every bum from abroad, they're telling us that the governor, tomorrow we're going to have farmers, tractors and mechanics write out to see our fields. Well, finally, the tariffs. We're asking the government to return the tax rate for the consumption of gas to a thousand two hundred cubes in the heating season by 3.60 per cube, not by 7,000 dollars as it is today. This will allow the villagers at least to make ends meet, not to sit in cold homes. And right now, from here, from the House of Parliament, me and my colleague Oleg Kuprienko, and our entire faction, we're going to court against high tariffs! To bring them down. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Yet, for the sake of objectivity, your faction is more than what you have just heard. And I invite you now to the words of Mr Bondar's national deputy of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, and especially respected miners! Yesterday, changes were made to the 16th year budget, where 420 million is the amount of government support for coal companies, to partially cover the cost of finished coal production. Unfortunately, by the end of the 16th year, this amount was not enough to pay off the debt to miners on wages. But speaking to Deputy Prime Minister Volodymyr Kistion, the Prime Minister, they assured me that by the end of the year, the sum would be added. Unfortunately, I don't know how many more, 50, 100 million, I don't know. But the day before, I stood up for those figures right on the budget committee, and a lot of the deputies said that as much as you can supply the coal sector, it's a corrupt scheme, they're going to increase the cost of coal. I told them that with every company, thousands of workers. Now, in general, in state enterprises, in government mines about 55,000 people, these are families, they are miners, they are guys who, without fear, go down 500 meters deep underground to provide coal to our country, and above all, these funds are for them. For example, on August 30, I registered an electronic petition on the Cabinet of Ministers’ website, confirming, under State guarantees, a strategy for financial support, restructuring and modernization of the coal sector. I call on colleagues, I call on miners, I've already addressed students as people, young people who work most actively with the Internet, to support that petition to raise 25,000 to really consider the issue. So once again, I ask colleagues, miners, all the voters who are watching now to actively join the very gathering of signatures in this petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u104	Thank you. And now, Mrs. Tetjana Ostrika from Self-Help, which is spoken by her colleague Paul Kostenko. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u105	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainians, tax collectors! This week, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and decided to refer it to the National Reform Council of the President of Ukraine. This is done, despite the fierce opposition of the Fiscal Service, despite this opposition, Minfin has nevertheless decided to write into his bill the best standards, the best positions of Bill 3357 on liberal tax reform, which was carried out by the author's group of civil activists, experts, national deputies under the leadership of the Tax and Customs Committee of Nina Petrovna Južanina. Among them were the leaders of the factions of the Radical Party and the Fatherland, 150 members of the People's Party signed the Bill a year ago under the Bill 3357. What are some of the situations? It's also a full-fledged electronic tax office, and depriving the DFS of a range of powers that are ineligible to a simple service, if that's the service, let them serve the taxpayers. This is also the transfer of the administration of databases and registers, including a register of VAT compensation to a specialized state-owned enterprise at the Ministry of Finance. And the elimination of the Tax Police in its present form. And the introduction of a single register of applications for VAT budgetary compensation with one single principle to compensate for is the chronology of the submission of applications. This is also the protection of the tax credit of conscientious taxpayers, which is confirmed by VAT-paying accounts for money in the VAT electronic administration system, and much more. All of these tax administration improvements were made by the Bill 3357 copyright team as early as October 2015. Yet the government of Yatsenuk and then the minister of finance, Mrs. Jaresko, did not see or appreciate their anticorruption effect. That is why I would like to express my personal respect to Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, Minister of Finance Alexander Daniluk for listening to us, for listening to the national MPs, and yet these norms have been included in the government bill. Yet, 3357 is a system law that has been very systematicly linked to one another. According to the finance minister, they took 30 percent of the 3357 standards into their bill, and they had to take all the standards that were anti-corruption and anti-discretional. What is it? For example, it is the Minfin initiative to introduce five - year holidays for businesses with turnover of up to 5 million. The next day, when this rule is voted out, our big businesses will go into 20 detail, and they'll make a profit tax, and we won't get it at all. So I want to ask if the budget of Ukraine can afford it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u106	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u107	So I want to ask the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, what is the amount of Ukraine's budget and taxpayers' income tax? If we can afford it, maybe we should think more about introducing a tax on capital output, as Estonia and Georgia have done since 2017, it's going into this system. That's why I'm asking my speech now to consider it a parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to let us know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u108	To the Ministry of Finance. Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u109	How much will Ukraine's budget cost for the introduction of tax holidays, how much will it cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Please describe Mrs. Ostrick's speech as a parliamentary address. And now Taras Shepherd, as well, from Self-Help, please, to the microphone. To the rostrum, more loyal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u111	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Actually, speaking from the rostrum, I want to ask you two questions. They are to some extent different, but they show a system of problems in our country. A recent decision by the Ternopil district council was a decision that we probably already have in Ukraine, where the process that we started with you on public and municipal media is now beginning to get its color. This is when groups that have spent years providing information through those media outlets are eliminated because of the virtually radical change in the management of the district administrations, the district boards of editors through the establishment, in fact, of these groups of controlled people. And then when you and I said that these things have to become independent, they have to explain the objective situation, and sometimes, criticizing the authorities that they don't always like, unfortunately, we get another controlled process that, on the one hand, looks like we're taking a step towards meeting people, on the other hand, we're doing two things back. And that's why I asked the MP today. And in fact, Ukraine wanted to hear about what such problems were and to prevent other areas from detecting such problems, perhaps take some steps to legally strengthen the publications of other newspapers, other radios, TV channels, which are still communal or national. And the second question. I actually want to address my warlords, the commanders who are protecting the country today, commanding our large troops, our brigades and our battalions. Regrettably, today, there was a situation where the hostages in the Armed Forces were boys, the army soldiers who had encountered aggression, in fact, and stood on their shoulders with the volunteers, along with those who had no relation either to the National Guard or to the militia, went forward, and all together -- both the Armed Forces and the volunteers -- held on to this aggression. But there was a situation that some of them were able to leave behind, for a year and a half, leave the army, leave the National Guard, go back to their daily lives, go back to their families, families, and some of the guys who made contracts with the Armed Forces, as soldiers, can't actually see their wives, their children today. And this is the policy of the General Staff, which has completely failed the work on mobilization, which. The trust given by the Ukrainians to the Armed Forces is, in fact, destroying today, showing their attitude towards a military soldier, to a military fighter. That's why I'm addressing the brigade commanders today. But it's true that not signing reports to soldiers whose term contract has passed is actually a crime today. Because the law, which enables automatic contracts to continue, entered into force on April 1, 2014, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u112	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u113	And there's no such thing as a reverse act. So, in fact, when soldiers are writing reports today and brigade commanders on the General Staff team don't satisfy them, they become, in fact, taking on this criminal offense. God forbid, a soldier like that gets killed, gets hurt or commits suicide, that's a whole series of criminal articles for which warlords, who today are heroes of Ukraine, who have taken responsibility on their shoulders, brought boys into battle, can tomorrow become criminals at the will of the General Staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u114	Fifteen more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u115	Therefore, the honorable commanders, in fact, today I appeal to your cold mind, to your consciousness. Soldier, he came to protect Ukraine, not serve the General Staff. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u116	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Andrew Illenko. Oh, I'm sorry, it's just that you've changed so much here that I could confuse something. Andrew Linko of the Radical Party of Lalach. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u117	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. This week, the Supreme Council has not been able to put into the agenda and consider issues that have matured two years ago, and today more talk is about abolishing the visa-free regime with the Russian Federation and breaking diplomatic relations. On February 10th, 15th, my colleagues and I registered a similar decision, and it was broken down on the committee, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs didn't miss it. Later, a year later, my colleagues again proposed such a decision to break diplomatic relations, and once again, Mrs. Hopko's committee did not miss, even before the Supreme Council. So the Supreme Council today completely removed the issue that had to be resolved at the beginning of the aggression of the Russian Federation. Because someone calls it a radical step -- the introduction of a visa regime -- and that's actually a logical step, and any country would normally take such a step with the country with which the war is going. This week, an event that began to talk more about the introduction of the visa regime is the illegal detention of our journalist Roman Suschenka and Mikli Semini. They're being accused of espionage, in fact, we understand that it's just this kind of politics, the terrorist policy of the Russian Federation: taking hostages. And in fact, everyone was outraged by the arrest of journalists, and we accepted the application. And the fact that we have boys dying every day and thousands of Ukrainians giving their lives because of the war doesn't infuriate us enough to finally take steps like this: introduce a visa regime against an aggressor. In fact, with one statement -- what the Supreme Council is doing today -- it's actually just saying claims with demands -- there's actually not enough of those statements. We need decisive action. And we see that the whole world understands that, and the United States has admitted that negotiating with Russia in Syria is hopeless. And we only hope that we can somehow get Russia to stop this aggression. No, Russia only understands power, and we need to demonstrate this power and show that we are ready to fight for our citizens in our territories. So once again, I insist on this. The Radical Party demands that Parliament finally engage in the process of negotiating with the aggressor, so that we can create a plan strategy for the depopulation of our territories in the east and the south, and that we in this Parliament finally spend the day as we conduct it: an economic day, a financial day, an environmental one -- to spend the day here after the ATO, a war, so that we can hear the higher leadership of the force structures here, so that we know. It may be a closed session, but Parliament, as the highest authority in the state, will finally be involved in solving the problem. Because what is happening in Minsk today, and what is happening in the East today, is absolutely not in the interests of Ukraine. I call on Ukraine. I call on the deputies to participate more actively in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u118	Please, let me finish. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u119	And in order to stop what's happening today, from going east in the unilateral order of the Ukrainian army, we're actually losing our territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u120	Thank you. I apologize for mislabelling your name, Dmitri. I won't be any more. And now he's invited to the word "Andrey Illenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u121	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, on October 2nd in a battle with Moscow's invaders in Lugansk, an officer of the 93rd Brigade, the platoon commander Miroslav Misla, who was only 24 years old. Miroslav was an active fielder. It was a man who, from the first days of the war, volunteered to the front, which was on the front all the time. He was a free man, he was one of the leaders of Sokol. He was an educated historian, he was a real young intellectual. He was a patriot, a nationalist, a true representative of a true national elite born today in Ukraine. He died saving his brothers. At the cost of his life, he saved other fighters and, as a true hero, gave his most precious life for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian nation, by dedicating his entire life to the service and struggle for the Ukrainian nation and for the Ukrainian state. On October 4, when he was buried in a village in Kharkishte, thousands of people gathered from all over Ukraine, his fighting brothers, his friends who gathered to honor his memory, in order to say goodbye to Miroslav, who was really not the average person who was, indeed, a real young Ukrainian hero, and he remained so. Today, we, MPs from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, signed a letter to the President of Ukraine, where we ask to give the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to Miroslav Mindy, who I really deserve this title, because he is really such a hero. And I would now like to ask the Ukrainian Parliament to honor by a moment of silence the memory of the real Ukrainian hero, the Ukrainian soldier, the Ukrainian nationalist Miroslav Misla, who is an example to all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u122	Please honor the memory of Miroslav Think for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. The Kingdom of Heaven. Please, Egor Sobolev of Self-Help. Welcome to the rostrum, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u123	For what, I'm talking about declarations. Actually, there's only 23.5 days left before the last top owner has to declare and explain the property of his family. On October 30, all of us: Members of Parliament, government officials, president, key high-ranking people of the state -- must comply with this law. It's important to do two things before that. The first thing is to fix the site. It is such a silent attempt not to comply with the law, to organize sabotage simply so that the site does not work. All declarations have to be made via the Internet, the basic idea is that they are open to people. And for the second month, the site where we have to make declarations and where citizens are supposed to see them doesn't work. I invite all colleagues in parliament, we have a special committee meeting on Tuesday, we invite an anti-corruption agency, the entire management of the State Special Liaison Service, the leadership. We need to find out why the very simple things described in the law are not possible on the Internet on the website where declarations are being made. In particular, the biggest violation is that there's no graph to bring in cash. I don't think it's an accident, because a lot of people don't want to publish this information. And it's very important that you and I do everything by law. The second thing to do in these 23.5 days is to stay away from all kinds of good and not very good proposals -- to rewrite legislation. I've already told you that this Parliament has been disgraced twice and then out of this disgrace, when, you remember, first by the amendments of Andrey Derkach and then by the law of Wadim Denisenko, the legislation on declarations has been rewritten to make important information disappear. It is important for us not to enter this third time. You know, the European Union says that this is now the key last problem that it's going to solve from Ukraine. The committee was attended by a very high visitor, Commissioner Han. And he asked me to say that the implementation of the legislation on declarations is now the main point from which the European Union will decide to abolish visas for all Ukrainians. Therefore, I urge all members of Parliament to unite around the protection and enforcement of this legislation. I think the voters will appreciate that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. And now I'm inviting the People's Deputy Lensky of the Radical Party of Laska. See, that's why there was this confusion. The Parasuk People's Deputy is now invited to the rostrum. And, dear fellows, I'm going to continue our meeting for 15 minutes, because those who want to speak, colleagues, they're waiting for their turn so that everyone who wants to join the "Varises" section today can join us. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u125	Today, Parliament beats all the records. We are now fifteen men in the hall. I think we're all going to be interested in Ukraine, how many people are in the meeting right now. But that's what I want to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the chairman. All right, guys. I want to dedicate my speech to a very serious subject -- that's because MPs sometimes miss meetings of the Supreme Council. I want to say that there's still going to be this, well, part of the MPs, and I'm missing meetings of the Supreme Council because there's going to be venues, patriots, volunteers, volunteers. And we need to go to those courts, and get our boys out of the hands of the separatists who stood up for us in 2014, 2015, and now in 2016, our independence. Just listen to the numbers. With regard to military personnel, 10,000 criminal cases have been opened. More than 800 people are currently in detention facilities and are being investigated. What's more, groundless investigations that don't have any evidence base at all. Just so you know what's going on right now. I don't understand the position of the Attorney General's Office, I don't understand the position of the Military Prosecutor's Office, which punishes those people who should be in charge of the highest positions in this state at all. They just throw them in jail. And I want to tell you that the current regime is afraid of these people. Because these people are people who can change Ukraine and who want to participate in state processes. That is why I call upon all the national deputies to take the responsibility of the patriots and not to be afraid that we are responsible. I want to give a name now to my colleagues from the Supreme Council who go to court and do this hard work. This is Yegor Sobolev, this is Semin Semenchenko, Petrenko Oleg, Dmitry Linko, Yuri Timoshenko, Kostenko Paul, Lozová Andry, and other national deputies. I thank you, colleagues, from the bottom of my heart for not throwing our brothers in jail and making the most of their efforts to be free. Because they should help us to rebuild our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Igor Popov of the Radical Party of Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The state budget project for 2017 is currently under review in the Supreme Council. I want to inform you that the Radical Party faction is studying this project very carefully. We realize that money in the state is not enough for everything, but we need to ensure, above all, the priority needs of every sphere of economics or social life. The Ministry of Education has declared that they offer to raise teachers’ wages by 30 percent. That's right, we've been talking about this a long time, because the teacher's work is underpaid today. But we're looking at a government budget project, and what do we see? The target subsidy for education has been reduced by 3 billion. We ask: how is this going to be that the subsidy is going to go down and the wages are going to go up? What do we hear? That the subsidy was paid in this 16th year not only for wages but also for municipal payments, the following year the payment of municipal payments is paid entirely to local budgets. Our question to the government, we're working on this right now: are these calculations realistic? Yes, we know that in 2016 local budgets are overrun, but local budgets are increasingly being translated by the government. Today there are social benefits for dozens of categories of citizens, non-peducal staff salaries, school breakfasts, compensation to carriers for the transport of benefits. Until now, local budgets have not been closed off for tariffs in the past years, no closed fines and pennies for utilities, no closed price increases for outdoor lighting, and electricity has increased by 25 percent. It has been stated that local budgets provide funding for part of public health institutions, but the public budget does not provide for this. Who, then, will be the primary liberarians, librarians, or school cooks, or will they turn out the heat in our schools? And so the clear requirement of the Radical Party, we require the government to show all the calculations. If they're not there, do the math. We still have time to check all the budget figures between the central budget and the local budgets. We demand a clear guarantee that teachers will actually be paid up. We demand assurances that our schools and our hospitals will receive heating and lighting and will be able to pay higher municipal rates. It is not possible to translate all responsibility into local budgets and call it decentralization. And only when we hear from the government whether there's a system, not just in manual mode, will all of this be done by hand, will they be forced to pay for it, it doesn't work in manual mode. Only if we get this system, these guarantees, will we be able to support such a government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u128	And thank you, Your Honor. Please come to the rostrum with the National Deputy of Peter Prashenko's Block, Sergey Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u129	Dear Ukrainians! Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkaschina. I'd like to talk to you now about our entire nation, about its fate through the prism of a bill that we voted and supported yesterday, it's an anti-rider law. In order for you to understand what this is about, it's about that from yesterday now, to change the right of the owner of any enterprise, you need to have the signature of the chairman and the secretary of the congregations that make these decisions notarized. For many people, there seems to be some abstraction, a technical bill. Instead, in 15 years, there have been up to 30,000 acquisitions of state, private, and various forms of property in Ukraine totalling $20 billion. Everyone asks a question, and what do I have to do with, like, companies? And yesterday, when most Ukrainian men apparently watched the first time of football, where the Ukrainian Assembly won 2:1 Turkey, Maxime Chicken, head of the inter-parliamentary group of Ukraine-Azerbaijan, Medunice Oleg, and other colleagues, we discussed with our partners from Azerbaijan's Majlis a huge problem that occurred on September 21st in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. One day, and this wasn't the law, one day the owners changed in several enterprises with a total value of property to about $100 million. One day an entrepreneur wrote himself a receipt, forged a signature that an entrepreneur from Azerbaijan borrowed 22 million dollars from him in the mortgage on all the property he had. And one day, by a judgment of the court, the District Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Judge Moroz takes a judgment in absentia that was not even notified by the rightful owners, that all of this went to the other side. And it was only by chance that they found out when they wanted to do another right and turned to the registration service. On the second day, a second resell took place, and all of these companies went to the offshore. Everything would be fine if it wasn't full of guns. The military's in, the vending machines are all in order. Now everyone in the country knows about this problem: the government, the Prime Minister, the President -- and now they're meeting with the Attorney General of Ukraine. We barely resumed our relationship with Azerbaijan after Janukovic's time, we visited the presidents of both countries, we started working together, and there was such a huge slap. I very much ask, I call on the government, the President and the Attorney General's Office to give a legal assessment of the enterprises: "CAS LTD", TO "Case Center of the Dnipro Football Club", TOV "Unmak", OSBB Schmidta, 15. This is purely raiding, giving a legal assessment, and planting the guilty. All Ukrainian, Azerbaijani group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u130	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u131	I say this on behalf of the entire group of Azerbaijani interparliamentary relations, let us make sure that such things are no longer repeated on our land, for no foreign investor will believe us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to announce a list of those deputies who signed up and who are present in the hall, looked who's gone, and it looks so simple right now. National Deputy Ribak, then Silantiev National Deputy, Teteruk People's Deputy, Igor Shurma People's Deputy, Musei People's Deputy, Sporish People's Deputy, Balitsky People's Deputy, and Mogopolitan People's Deputy. I simply counted all those present who have signed up and who wish to speak, including those who are no longer present. Please, Mr. Ribak and then Mr. Silantiev, prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u133	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, we are very few today, as always on Friday, but it is still possible to provide information to our voters about what has been going on in the last week in the walls of our Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow deputies, the Presidency of the Supreme Council for the first time that the history of the entire Ukrainian Parliament was probably the one of the environmental day. Where it was possible to adopt ten key, very important bills that could improve the quality of the environment: the quality of the water, the quality of the air -- indeed, the situation in the natural order sphere. So these ten bills are going to be fundamental, and seven of them were voted in the first reading, the committee is actually going to work on developing quality for the second reading and bringing it to your mind. I think that this day of the environment will be held in Parliament as soon as possible. Another question that I would like to raise is that yesterday we voted on two serious bills that will reform the road sector in Ukraine, where 35 percent of road traffic revenues, excises and so on will come into use in areas such as repairs, capital repairs, road maintenance. This is very relevant for the Western Ukrainian region, because there, in fact, the quality of roads is very important for the budget, for the local budgets, for the development of transport infrastructure, for the tourism sector. An example of the Kosovsky region, the Highlands, where only 50 million dollars were used last year, and at this cost about 30 km of road traffic, shows that, indeed, such capital investment has a real positive effect on the development and preservation of the region. People create new jobs, people fill local budgets, properly rebuild the village, people have jobs, they have jobs to live for. A serious problem is the Chernobyl area and roads in the Chernobyl region. It is not a secret that during 2015-2016 the region received 360 million dollars from excess customs revenues. But to date, only 70 million dollars have been done. District Administration. district administration does not do quality work, would like to improve the work of the district administration. And I think the government is going to pay attention to the personnel issues and the people who are dependent on doing these jobs. I hope that the next plenary weeks will be no less quality. It's good for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u134	Thank you for your optimism. Please, People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u135	Denis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I want to document to you that the health of the Ukrainian nation, that the health of the growing generation, the health of our children with you is not a priority for the current Government. So yesterday, we were considering Bill 5217, where we changed the State Budget by the end of 2016. Note the ratio of digits. An amount of 15 million is allocated to one town in Uman to mark its anniversary and repair the roads. In doing so, 8 million are allocated to the development of physical culture, to the maintenance of sports of excellence and reserve sport throughout the country: 8 million. This shows the neglect of the State and the Government towards the health of the growing generation and the health of the nation. The Radical Party faction therefore requires increased budget funding for physical culture and sport until the end of 2016. Let's move on. I am looking at the 2017 budget, Ministry of Youth and Sports. What do I see? I see a lack of funding for the development of sports infrastructure, repairs, reconstruction, construction of new infrastructure. What do I see? Reduce funding for athletes and train athletes to compete. Because I see a 95 per cent increase in the funding of the office and the management of the Ministry. I think that the Ministry has appreciated the results of its work and has therefore decided to double its funding. This is in the light of the fact that in two years we have 80 children's sports schools reduced, the failure of Ukraine's history in the Olympic Games and much more, and the total mortality that is record-breaking, and the Ukrainian nation has been recognized by UNESCO as a dying nation. You know, this kind of chaotic jamming of a hole, when it's going out there a little bit, it's not going to solve all the problems. The Radical Party faction requires the adoption of a public, targeted public programme for the development of physical culture and sport, with the participation of all necessary ministries: social policy, health, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Education. Only then will we be able to stop the genocide that is taking place today with regard to the growing generation. Let's not push each other's backs, but let's go together and solve the problems we came here to solve. To solve and fulfil them, our obligations are not in words, but in fact, to take care of people, their families, their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome National Deputy Andrew Teteruk. Andrew Teteruk. Please welcome national deputy Olga the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, my speech will be dedicated to medical insurance. The proposal of the Ministry of Health and its promises to Ukrainian citizens in the following year are now well under discussion. I want to say that these statements are wrong or unprofessional because what the Ministry of Health says is, in fact, an exclusive redistribution of funds in the middle of the primary budget and is not a health insurance because health insurance is the involvement of the new half. This means that people will have to pay extra taxes. At the same time, this week, the Social Policy Committee had a discussion of three laws that one of my colleagues was talking about, and that was actually supported by the Social Policy Committee -- a law that proposes to create a new system-wide huge business that will receive profits, and in fact all the costs involved in the health insurance in the future would not be released to a state agency, but rather to put on stock companies. And actually, the Social Policy Committee was backed by that law. The law was not upheld. The laws are alternative: 4981-1, the author of which is Oleg Musei, and 4981-2, the author of which is me. And we really insist that the state does not create a new system of state corruption business, try to get billions of profits, and pass on the resources that people have to use to strengthen their health and health care, so that other private insurance companies can benefit from while people simply die from the fact that they will not be able to buy drugs. We're proposing alternative bills that will all be passed into the House of Parliament, and Parliament will decide whether to cheat once more Ukrainian citizens by promising them a paradise on earth and by regenerating funds to private shareholders, as was done with car insurance, when people believed private insurance companies, insured their cars, and then all the companies went bankrupt. It would not be desirable for money to win justice first, and I am now addressing everyone who is in this room, to point out that the law that is supported by the Committee on Social Policy is not the one that supports Ukrainian statehood, because health insurance should be based on the same way as the health care system, on state ownership, and there should be a state agency that will answer, where the funds will be saved, who will be responsible for them, who will guarantee to people that these funds will be used to preserve, in fact, their lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u138	And thank you, Mrs. Olga. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Today, there will be no citizen in Ukraine who would go into the pharmacy and find drugs that have become cheaper over the past two years. Today, there are very few people who come to the hospital with medical care, in the hospital, in bed, and there are supplies of medicine. Why? And the whole point is that for two years we've been waiting for a health reform, it's gone. What awaits us? Nothing good, nothing good awaits us for the reason that there is no understanding of what to do. In what case will reform and change succeed? It's when people who reform and know what they're reforming. And we have today as a roadside situation. There is no effective legislation in the health system. If we had an active legal base in medicine, we would understand what needs to be changed. Today, there are other people who call themselves penguins to reform the health system. They are responsible for their predecessors, or minister of Kwitashvili, because they worked together. What do we have today? They were asked to adopt a law that would allow international organizations to conduct drug purchases. The money was sent a year ago, there are no drugs for 2015 to date, and in 2016, people who have been sick since January 1 did not expect any pills because there is no tender today. The Ministry of Health has done nothing to make those purchases, and on the nose, I apologize, 2017. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers cannot hold a meeting, the Prime Minister said: "We will hold meetings by August, we will develop a concept of the development of the health system," no meeting to date. There was hope at least to tackle the most painful problems, and there is authority in this cabinet of ministers. Many politicians are coming to Lviv. What are they doing? First, they promise the workers of the prenatal center that they will be paid for the building. And they promise emergency health workers that they'll be paid their wages. Everyone comes and does nothing, there's no money left. And in those changes and additions to this law, there's not a single single copy for Lviv, for a prenatal pay-back center. I am formally requesting the Prime Minister to consider funding the prenatal centre in Lviv and to allocate funds to pay off wages, as well as to attract those responsible in the ministry who do not provide for enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u140	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u141	Who does not ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care. It is irresponsible to pin everything on the heads of the district government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Moses. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u143	Good day to those who are still in the hall, especially to the Ukrainian people, good day. Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red City, 124 major constituency, political party People's Control. I would like two of my colleagues from the Health Committee just to speak. It's literally one short thesis to say that what we have right now in the Ministry of Health is not just a total horror. Everyone thought that there was a total horror with Minister Kvetashvili, and now we have a systemic effect of the crisis, where we are eyewitnesses that Parliament was removed from the appointment of a minister of health. To this day, an artificially appointed c.o. beyond our backs that bear no responsibility for anything. Maybe it's time for the government and most of the People's Front with Peter Dustenk to put the minister to the vote? How much can you abuse the Ukrainian people by those pseudo-professionals who say that health insurance is a subsidy to local budgets that do not require additional funding? People are good, come on. Appoint an adequate minister of health, and we will share responsibility for the health system. I would like to draw your attention to another issue that is the result of thoughtless politics after the destruction of the central executive authorities that the Yatsenuk government has initiated. Two years ago, relief services were abolished and such an agency was created — the State Labour Service. Thus, for two years this employment service has ignored the full requirements of current legislation regarding regressors and miners. Six months ago, it was forbidden to take help from sanitation for those miners who had worked 20 years ago, made silliosis, earned all the occupational diseases because they didn't have, you see, some kind of authority. My MP's request was announced, a parliamentary appeal was announced, and Vice Prime Minister Rosenko commissioned the Ministry of Health to develop appropriate legislation. What do you think? In six months, there are only the receipts! The miners will soon arrive and settle under the Cabinet of Ministers, these regressors, these people who have become ill, they can't get any copies to this day. Oh, people, that's good! For six months, would the Ministry of Justice agree with the Cabinet of Ministers, where only a small function should be transferred?Oh, my God! I ask you to consider my request once again as an official MP to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Social Policy, to the Ministry of Justice. Immediately, consider paying the miners for their disability.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u144	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u145	Because they've been disabled since this disability was established. People don’t take them to work because they have disabilities, and they don’t pay them! Please state the order, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u146	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor Mr. Sporish's National MP from the Peter Dust Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u147	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies Who Have Remained in the Hall! You know, you can't even believe that when you log in 44, you can still perform today. But on Fridays today, it shows how always every Friday. And I'd say there were three people standing in front of me and saying, look, one of the factions is full, well, for example, the Easy Party is only three people left, the BP is three, the People's Front is three and the rest. So there aren't that many of us left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'll say from Opposition Block 2, they're there. And if it hadn't been for Shurma, they'd never have been here at the end. So it is pleasant, but we would like to consider many more laws today on Friday. Well, unfortunately, bills like anti-doping, such bills that were in the agenda today, about protecting children, unfortunately, we haven't been able to accept them today, and they are very important. You know, before the Supreme Council recently, yesterday, there was a rally of peasants to the moratorium on land. And it's fair that the villagers come, it's fair that they want their own, and there must be a moratorium, and we accepted it. But I would very much like to see this rally run free. We've actually seen these 10 photographs where the whole people, the Ukrainian villagers, have to work, it shouldn't be. Dear peasants, seek justice, go, rally, make sure that this moratorium that we have adopted is accepted for all time. But at the same time, there shouldn't be any of these decks, they've fed us. And you know, some people said that this law was passed on a moratorium, there's someone taking over and beating their chests, no, it's all factions, all parties signed under a bill where the moratorium was extended together until the 18th year. And that's really fair. And besides, the tax policy that we're trying so hard to get off farmers, agricultural producers, not those that have 300-400 hectares of land, thousands are meant, and those that have a thousand or two, up to 5,000. should be taxed to the security, especially in animal production. If we don't get into animal farming today and there's not gonna be any special taxation, if we don't go back to it, I think the animal industry will have to give up. And that's going to be a pretty big negative for our Ukraine. Well, I wanted to ask you another question about the subsidy. We can't convince today on the issue of subsidies for people living in villages who pay for gas 1.20, 1.80, 90 copies, they're very hard to convince today to pay 3.60 as proposed. I count, the ones who have, the oligarchs, the big, the rich, let's actually pay 7 bucks, 3.60 dollars, and the people in the village, I have 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u148	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u149	But I think they really have to pay for these 80-1.20s, because they can't survive for this thousand, they'll never survive. And I think the grant should protect them. Well, I think there's a lot of other questions that I haven't been able to raise in a very short time today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor. And today's final performance is the Balicki People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u151	Evgeny Balicki, Melitopol and Melitopolski district, 80th district, “Opposition Block”. Dear colleagues, once again from the rostrum, I want to return to the current issue of self-government. We are talking a lot about reform, that communities should become a real source of power, but a train there and now. The most important tool, the budget, is still in the hands of a representative of the Presidential Authority. Therefore, the real source of authority on the ground is, not the territorial communities, but the heads of the regional administrations, which means the President and their appointees. As long as the governors are parachutists who fall above the heads of locals, have no personal responsibility to them, all the work is to stand before the President. Our self-government will not move in the direction that the vector is now. Management from the centre, which often does not take into account the interests of local communities. Therefore, once again, I would like to emphasize that the heads of the regional public administrations must be elected by the territorial communities by a universal direct vote. The Governor must answer to his people, who have chosen him, in response to his chair. It must own the situation in the region, be able to manage the budget, report to voters for the work done. This position is fully in line with European democratic norms. I believe that it is necessary to amend the Constitution in the near future in order to eliminate this bloody dualism of power on the ground. By now, agreements that are already requested by President Zitomirsky, Kirovogradsky, Odessa and other regional councils may be an instrument for delineating the authority of the region and the centre. Dear colleagues, please take a responsible view of this issue, draw attention to the regions, and this will definitely benefit Ukraine, its development and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-07-m0.u152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions. We've heard that a few of the national MPs speaking have just announced the meetings of their committees, and that's very important. We urge fellow members of the National Deputies to visit the committees conscientiously so that there will be a quorum and work better than on Friday in the session room. The following week, too, the Ukrainian parliamentary delegation will work in Strasbourg at a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This week, we thank the Ukrainian delegation, which worked very conscientiously at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. And on October 12th, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on just the most important topic raised during several performances: "The rights of the child in Ukraine: security, maintenance, protection." We invite all of October 12 for 15 hours for the Cyprus hearing. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, October 18, at 10 a.m. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, I declare closed. Thank you all. Good-bye.
