ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please invite deputies to the Hall, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the faction secretariat. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. Please include the registration of the national MPs. [[10:04:52]] There were 334 deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. On Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. And I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. Please record the performance. Oleg Ivanovich Osuhovsky gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u2	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Today, like yesterday, we continue to witness the rat shower that takes place in the Supreme Council and outside the Supreme Council. In fact, the problem is that we don't just have a parliamentary crisis or a government crisis, it's obvious to all that we have a crisis in society's confidence in power. We have a deep economic crisis. Ukraine has, unfortunately, taken first place in the world in terms of inflation growth last year. In Ukraine, 49 percent, and in Syria, for example, where civil war has been waged in the sixth year against everyone and where no city has been destroyed by war, there are 33 percent. How can this be explained? We see that today we are told a story about the possibility of creating some new coalition in Parliament. Please explain, what is the new coalition? Of the same parties, in the same proportions, just by changing a few names and changing a few tables, this is going to be called a new coalition? We're not even told that there's going to be any changes in the coalition agreement, there's going to be some changes in the program. That's not what this is about. They failed the previous Coalition Agreement, and now they're not going to do it, and they're telling us that it can change the situation. Unfortunately, that's not true. We see that today the problem is not just that there is a crisis in Parliament. The problem is that these past and a half years, the government has been leading it in the wrong direction. And now they want to keep this Parliament just for three things. First. It is in order to control privatization and its oligarchs for nothing to distribute what is still valuable in Ukraine. It's different. This is the sale of agricultural land, as Yatzenuk has already announced. And they want to control it and make money on it and rob the Ukrainian people. And the third. These are the Minsk Accords. They want to enforce the Amnesty Law for Terrorists in this Parliament, they want to conduct the Elections in Occupied Territories Act in this Parliament. And that's why they're trying to keep this Parliament going today. The solution is only two: either constitutional or unconstitutional. Constitutional is what it is, it's to go to the early elections and properly form a new parliament, a new coalition and a new government already in the new parliament. If that's not the case, we're going to have a social explosion. I don't think anyone needs that. But today’s authorities are, in fact, leading by their own policies. And every day of being in the position of Yatsenuk and this government and this coalition and this parliament is a plus percent of the opposition bloc. And you can't let that happen. The sooner the election takes place, the better it will be for the country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u3	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u4	Dear friends! I was forced to look at the situation today regarding the purchase of hearing aids for children by the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, there are children, like 200 children in Ukraine, who need cochlear implantation — hearing replacement surgery with a special device. For example, in 2011, there were 70 million, in 2012-70 million, in 2013-70. And in 2014, when your team came to power, it was 9 million, and in 2015 it was 2 million. Can this government not find 80 million dollars for children and solve this problem? That's the first question. Question two. Everyone knows that 40,000 people in Ukraine are suffering and need an endoprostitisation of their joints. Unfortunately, since 2014, only 400 joints have been purchased at the demand of 40,000. Can't the government, by cutting costs on the same government, on the same circuits that travel around the European square today with prime ministers, buy joint endoprosthesis? And last but not least, another question. The Law on Freight was passed to return from state funding. No veto, no signature. I'm addressing Mr. Groysman's Chief of Staff. Either put a veto on this law, please, or make it public. For example, in Uman, 24,000 young people today are unable to drive for free and pay 3.50 per pass. Please consider this question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u5	Thank you. The next one is Artemenko, and then (the sixth) the Wolf gives two speeches to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk – six minutes. Please turn the system on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, please pay attention to the House of Parliament. You see, unfortunately, most of the deputies are gone, and it looks like we won't be able to make most of the decisions in Parliament today, because there will be no votes. I am saddened by this situation because it is hard to imagine if a doctor, a teacher, a colporteur, a steelsmith, or a miner did not come to work, they would be paid a salary, and they would be given a letter of credit. Responsibility and the fight against corruption begin with this room. Responsibility is when you come to work, responsibility is when you adopt laws that actually improve people's lives rather than make them worse. I'm surprised that yesterday, unfortunately, three factions, Peter Prashenko's Block, the People's Front, and the Fatherland, were unable to form a coalition. The continuation of the political crisis is very damaging to both the country and our relationship with international partners. President Poshenko is flying to Washington today, and it would certainly be good if a political crisis had been resolved if a new government had been created if a new agenda had been adopted. And the President, I stress, no matter how we treat him, but this is the President of Ukraine, and he represents Ukraine in the international arena itself. And certainly, each of us should be interested in having strong negotiating positions for the President. According to the Radical Party faction, what would make it possible to radically change the economic course of the country? This is taking into account the proposals and the radical party program. We have a clear plan of action that we published a few months ago in public. And we insist that this action plan be included in the new government action programme and in the new coalition programme. Because not only do we change the name of the prime minister or the prime minister, we think that the course of today's government is a categorical, irresponsible course that leads to the poverty of millions of Ukrainian citizens, which leads to the loss of Ukrainian independence, which in fact leads to the fact that we can remain in isolation. Therefore, we should not expect anyone to do our job for us. If we don't, if Ukrainian society doesn't, no one will. The Radical Party proposes a clear anti-crisis plan for a crisis. First of all, the wage on own production, on its own economy, which will enable the creation of millions of new jobs, a radical increase in wages and pensions, the socialization of the economy, the protection of the national producer, in particular the agricultural producer, the protection of our farmer, whom everyone is peeling, like the July: both power, and government, and the parliamentary majority, and the National Bank. There's a union campaign coming up. Our peasants don't have any circulation costs, they don't have the ability either to buy fuel oil materials or seed materials or chemical fertilizers. Because last year there was a change in the taxation system, and the peasants actually wash off the circulation costs. Let's take, if someone might say that there are good people and that's why the peasants got picked, let's see who's good. Government, we see well, President, I don't think it's worse, the National Bank is even better, because the Hontareva makes enough money in a day that a normal person won't earn in a lifetime, nor will his grandchildren, nor his great-grandchildren. Rather, let us see how bad this authority is for us. It's bad for all of us: pensioners are sick. Why don't you go to the pharmacies? I was in the pharmacy yesterday. I'm in. I'm in. I'm asking you to show me your recipes. In prescriptions, two thousand, three thousand dollars. How much money do you have in your pocket? And the money in his pocket is 200 bucks. The recipe was written for three thousand dollars, and the money came in 200 dollars. So people die because they simply can't buy drugs because they can't actually live. That's why the Radical Party team registered the bills, and we insist that they be considered as soon as possible. It's about pensioners being able to get drugs for free. List of drugs, 5-6 positions: from the pressure, from the head, from the heart. We have the highest mortality rates just from cardiovascular diseases and people of retirement age, and so they can get these drugs for free. We offer once a year free to each pensioner to undergo a medical examination to make sure that there are no diseases. And if there is, for them to be detected and eliminated in advance, and not when the disease is in its final stages, it comes to the hospital, and no one can help it. Why aren't people being diagnosed? Because they shut down hospitals, they shut down FAPs, and people don't have the basics to go through UICs, go through X-rays, go through diagnostics, go to those doctors. That's what power and parliament should do -- socializing the economy, socializing our lives, socializing power in general. Because when we have the demands of the International Monetary Fund, the granting of loans, no one sees a simple person behind those loans: a pensioner, a teacher, a doctor, a miner, a metallurgy, an unemployed, a bummer, a peasant. They're the same people we are. And a lot of those who are freaking out today, look, they're wearing normal dresses. You go and tears come to your eyes: in a normal cloth, in a normal dress, and you get married. Why is he getting married? Because the former teacher or doctor, because she's worked her whole life, and today she's retired 900 bucks. So I encourage the creation of a government and a new coalition only to radically change economic policies, which will allow people to live in their own country. The Radical Party has a clear plan, we're ready to implement it, we're counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u7	Thank you. Cupry Vitaly Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, today we see how the leadership of the state continues to manipulate people's minds. As he's constantly trying to tap this box of cards in our Parliament, he's trying to create as new coalitions that can't be defined as such, and it's basically the complete deception of the Ukrainian people. I want to tell you that I have information that a certain number of deputies, including those who came out of Peter Dustenk's Block, and that's possible to say to the Ukrup, they will now be considered valid. in a real coalition, which or in a new coalition, because they did their time last year, they didn't write an application for an exit from the coalition, they just wrote statements about an exit from the faction. I think it's absolute absurdity, nonsense, it can't be. No article of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provides for the procedure for writing such declarations of withdrawal from the coalition. But perfectly logical and logically, if we're out of the disgraceful faction of BPP, we're no longer part of any coalition based on its format. The main manipulators of Ukraine. In Ukrainian society, in the Ukrainian Parliament, the person who destroys Ukrainian parliamentaryism is Vladimir Groissman. We know it all and we understand it. There is a court decision that establishes him as a violator of the law and the Constitution. A person who doesn't put bills to the vote, for example the opposition MPs; a person who removes from the consideration of amendments to certain bills if he doesn't like them or dislikes their political power; a person who illegally removes bills from registration, if even the MP who introduced them didn't give consent and the mass of complete absurdity, and a mass of total violations of the rule of law by Volodymyr Groysman. But this man is being nominated as Prime Minister. I'll tell you, I have a great temptation to vote for this man as Prime Minister, but not to go to the government. I know there's nothing good about it, that it's just going to lead the government to the final end, and we're going to throw Ukraine into the chasm. I'd very much like to deprive Mr. Groysman of the MP's authority. I wish he could be brought to criminal responsibility. And, including, you know, two years of the entire MP Corps, all the assistants, we're illegally getting salary from the budget. The damage to the state by Volodymyr Groysman is 200 million dollars. He gave wages on the basis of his orders, but on the basis of legal acts approved by the Supreme Council. Shame on you! Let's all make the right decision together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Miroshnichenko Ivan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u10	Pass the word to Podlisecki, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u11	Myrrhichenko, please turn on the microphone. Handed it over to Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! I'd like to draw attention to an important bill on an independent regulator that's already stood for the second time. stood in order of day, but, I don't know if it was an accident, but we didn't come to the solution to that question, to accept it as the basis for the first reading. The importance of the body can be discussed from several points. First of all, it is a body that has to be objectively, professionally set both prices and tariffs for services of electricity, gas, and heat, other utilities. I would like to draw attention to a few recent decisions that have been taken, in fact, by an active body that shows absolute engagement and non-professional approaches to their activities. In particular, it is manual administration and setting tariffs for companies that are close to the right persons or to certain points of influence. In particular, it's worth paying attention to the known facts of the four-fold increase in the Ukrenergo tariffs for the purpose of spending money on the purchase of transformers that are questionable needs. The total amount was estimated at 3 billion dollars. Thanks to public activity and many of our colleagues, this figure has been reduced, and at least the purchase has already taken place at a price of three times less, that is, up to a billion. Another such important example is the decision the commission wanted to introduce from January 1st, then moved to April 1st to introduce new tariffs for all Oblenergo systems. This decision could raise the cost of Oblenergo's population by 12 billion dollars a year. In particular, 2 and a half billion have already been foreseen for this year. Happily, the decision was at least postponed. And the last is actually the tip of cynicism, which is when the decision was made, and it was introduced on March 1st: raising tariffs for street lighting for all cities and villages in Ukraine. We have a call from the Association of Cities to cancel this decision because the budgets have all been approved, and since March 1st they were introduced at 2 1/2 above the tariff. I understand some possible compromises, but this decision has to be clearly reviewed. And what's important is that the price of street lighting is only half a billion is completely out of line with the figures that come out of the market. Therefore, we demand that the decision be reversed as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u13	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u14	We demand that the decision to impose higher tariffs be changed for nighttime lighting. street lighting, as well as the speedy adoption of the Independent Regulator Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Sergey High, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u16	Good afternoon, colleagues! Regrettably, the past weeks and months have been devoted to finding out more about our relations with our colleagues, with our democratic colleagues who have left or remain in the coalition. We find out the relationship, we put each other on the air, and at that time we forget the process, the present process and the real threat that our State is facing every day. When we talk about these people who are sitting there, the "occupational bloc", when we talk about the Putin plan, which has not left Ukraine, everyone understands this, many in this room, some parts of the society that our conflicts have convinced that the main theme is the coalition, many forget that we have a real enemy, and that the Kremlin's plan to capture our statehood, upon the capture of Ukraine, upon the abolition of our country as such continues to exist, is active. I want to illustrate this to you in a moment. Take note of the bill that was introduced by these people under the authority of Mr. Nimchenko, Putin's right hand. Medvedchuk's right hand, and Putin's, too. This bill is simply called: "The specifics of the management of the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk." But what does he have in mind? It entails the creation of what is called the so-called one. The so-called Donbass Interdisciplinary Territorial Association, think about it! - with your head, think about it! - with its territorial militia, its parliament and others, and other so-called quasi-State signs. This is the Bosnianization of Ukraine, which the Kremlin is intended to provide, through Medvedchuk, its manuals in the “occupational bloc” and the deputies of this anti-national political force. It is in order to prevent these scenarios that my colleagues and I have established an inter-fractional anti-occupational offensive and now we are collecting signatures under a statement of responsibility for anti-Ukraine activities, for planning the campaign on Novorossia, for the so-called "Russian Spring" and he is the co-author of Mr. Medvedchuk. Mr. Nimchenko is Medvedchuk's right hand, I repeat. I'm asking everyone who thinks they're patriots, I'm asking everyone who thinks that "Russian spring" has to stop that we have a real enemy and remember that, sign this statement. Let's unite. Let's remember that we have our so-called northern neighbour, our original enemy, our aggressor country, and the Kremlin plan that is being implemented through some people in this room. Let us unite, and let us remember who our real enemy is and fight him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo gives the word Medunice. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u18	I don't think Medvedchuku's gonna be able to say a line here, so wait till it's your turn, maybe someone will say it on your side. Oleg Medunica, Sumi People's Front. Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! Today, the Professional Committee on Freedom of Speech will consider Law 3822, which allows us to legislatively increase quotas for Ukrainian music products on the air of Ukrainian radio stations. This law is based on my own, John Krulk, Igor Artushenko and Oleg Lášk. For 25 years, we were fed Russian pops in Ukraine. For 25 years, the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian authorities, have not dared to say the hard "no" of Russian music in our country. This law will only allow us to fill 37.5 percent of the air with Ukrainian songs. And what do we see? A large part, including the Ukrainian authors, of the radio station’s radio directors, opposes the adoption of this law. They are now the main barrier to the spread of the Ukrainian word on the air of Ukrainian radio stations. This is a continuation of the Russian occupation of our information and cultural environment. I call on all the deputies from the profile committee and then all the deputies in this room to uphold this law and stop the Russian occupation of informational Ukrainian space. Because it's not just a Russian diversion. in every segment of our lives. In particular, last Saturday, in the territory of Suma District, Ukrainian security officials detained a caravan containing a million packs of cigarettes, which came from the Russian side, which passed customs border control, which was empty, but was actually filled with cigarettes. Please tell me, what if there was a Russian terrorist group in this car? What if this car was filled with Russian weapons? Me and a group of MPs are going to demand the most serious consideration of this incident, so that the culprits who were alleged to be involved in this incident, when this machine is empty, and actually cigarettes have gone to Ukrainian territory, are punished. And corruption in customs and foreign affairs has been brought to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Marcenko's giving Rudik the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u20	Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkaščina. First of all, I wanted to thank my colleague Alexander Marchenk for the opportunity to speak on behalf of major MPs, who represent completely different regions, who travel and continue to communicate with people. And at these meetings, we learn that many of our colleagues, unfortunately, only know about books and films. Remember, at one time in Soviet times there were such films, pictures. So people are not really interested in coalitions, people are interested in not dividing their portfolios, or who will be the speaker who will become the Prime Minister. Of course, they have struggled with the existing government, and they look forward to his retirement. But to tell you the truth, the birds are waiting. When the President finally signs the law that's going to bring back PTU 1 billion 700 million dollars. After what? Just after another bill was approved, a more faithful amendment to the Minfin decree, which gave 500 million instead of 1 billion 700. We are now approaching the famous Chernobyl sad date of 30 years. We, Parliament, have recently approved a very normal bill that allows the Chernobyls to help the first and third groups of people with disabilities to provide them with at least some satisfaction for medical examination and material assistance. I'm going from this rostrum to the President's Administration, who is preparing appropriate bills for the President to sign so that this law doesn't repeat the fate of the previous one, so that it will be signed soon, and we can go to the district and watch people who have lost their lives and health with our eyes open. I would like to draw attention to, unfortunately, the empty places of some of our officials. Regrettably, in recent times, especially at the start of this government, they have rarely been seen in a bed, a government bed. I'd like to speak to the Minister of Energy. More than a month ago, I addressed him with a problem that concerns the vast number of budget institutions in Cherkaschina, Smilian, Cherkas region, Kamensk district, Smilla, for the payment of gas, which, according to the Natural Gas Act of October 1, was granted the right of all budgetary institutions to freely choose the provider of services. And you know, in some villages, these services have been compromised because the tender procedure lasts about three months? And what did the minister say to me a month after he had to answer? If necessary, we are ready to initiate the adoption of a legal instrument.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u21	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u22	So, society, let's put an end to the activity, the agony of this government, and end it by shaping people who are responsible for what they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u23	The Pressman gives the Spike a word for the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u24	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze-Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, dear voters! I want to begin my speech with the words of the first President Michael Gruszewski: "Poor Ukraine is governed by those who don't need it." What do we see? Political debate has been going on for a month. And all we have to talk about is the new Kabmin, who's supposed to decide all the questions, the visa-free regime as a panacea for the Ukrainians and the new coalition. I said, what's that gonna give us? Will the price of drugs fall? Are the tariffs going down? Is life going to get better? At the same time, there are laws in Parliament that must now be passed, whether there will be a new coalition, whether there will be elections or not. The Health Committee has a key package of bills that the medical sector is waiting for. In doing so, in more than a year’s time, only two bills in the medical field were passed to Parliament. In this session, we have to adopt the draft Law on the Activities of Health Institutions, give more economic autonomy to our medical institutions so that they can work instead of earning money on people. The Law on Supplementing Medical Workers, especially in rural areas, should be adopted. The first reading has already passed. We must, at the legislative level, approve the amount of medical assistance guaranteed by the State. That is what must be given free to every Ukrainian. We need to set up a tariff system, give immediate assistance to the agrarians, support our education. And these legislative initiatives are, "The Rebirth Party" has long registered them, and they need to be taken to the session room and accepted immediately. And I urge all of you, honourable national deputies, to unite for the sake of the country. Is change in the health system a political issue? Is there a coalition, a government, or a parliamentary majority involved? No, it's not. There is simply a need to understand the need for change. And we're just hearing about changes in government. Don't switch places so it doesn't turn out to be fairy tales. And to the end. In these days, the Nicopolian Ferrospile plant marks its 50th anniversary. I want to welcome this group personally from this rostrum, to wish the entire enterprise, the leader of our industry, that for the next 50 years it would also lead international markets, develop the economy of our state, because at this difficult time, the plant is an island of stability and financial reliability for our Cossackland, for Dnipropetrovština, for all of Ukraine. Today, the wages are inexorably paid. decent wage, preserved and developed social, medical, sporting spheres. The factory is a reliable representation of the state in international markets. You're a low-down, respectable ferrets. With a feast of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u25	Thank you. Time for discussion is over. During the performances, the name of the German deputy was mentioned. And he's asking for a minute to reply, and according to the Rules, he's entitled to that. Please, 1 minute. Replica, Deputy Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u26	Hello! I hear you, don't I? Dear colleagues, I do not wish to enter into any dispute, especially in such tone and rhetoric as some have begun here, trying to impose a debate on a bill on inter-regional territorial association. The purpose of the bill is to make every effort to implement the Minsk Agreements and to end the war. If the supporters of the party of war are looking differently, please continue. Do you need blood? I mean, blood can be washed, but it can't be decorated. Those representing the Opposition Unit are one and a half million voters. And the second. This bill concerns those people, mainly those on the other side of the front line. Only pensioners for a million and a half. Can you hear me? Only the movers, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u27	Thank you. We're running out of time for the performances, and we're moving to the agenda. Dear colleagues, we have the first issue of ratification. I ask you to enter the Chamber of Deputies, and the questions are being considered. Thus, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the free transfer of helicopters (0083). And there's a proposal from the committee for this ratification to be considered by a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in this vote. It's Ukraine that's handing over a helicopter. Are you guys ready? If we don't get enough support to consider a reduced procedure, we're going to be looking at a full-procedure bill. Everybody ready for work? Please propose a simplified procedure for draft law 0083. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:40:11]] For-141 My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm gonna say it again. If. This does not conflict with the Rules, the procedural question can be put to the vote. I'm going to put it again, and if there's not enough votes, I'm going to stress again, we're going to go over the full procedure. So I'm asking the factions to mobilize, please take jobs. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing a simplified procedure for draft law 0083. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:41:41]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the State Service from the extraordinary situation of Chechtkin Mikol Alexanderovich to report to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u28	Honourable Andrija Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the free transfer of the Mi-8PS-9 helicopter was developed by the State Service of Ukraine with exceptional circumstances under the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. Helicopter transfer is initiated by the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the request of the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic to assist in obtaining a helicopter for further exhibition at the Košica Aviation Museum. The designated helicopter is written off, not suitable for further operation, is located in the area of state service administration of Ukraine out of emergency situations and is based at the airport of Uzgorod. The adoption of the act will contribute to the deepening of good-neighbourly relations with the Slovak Republic, the promotion of authority in Ukraine in the international arena, and the need for public funds. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u29	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u30	Good morning, dear fellows! The Committee on European Integration considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the free transfer of the Mi-8PS-9 helicopter (registration No. 0083) and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole. In addition to the report by the head of the service, I would like to add that the ratification of the Agreement does not entail a correction of existing or adopted new legislation of Ukraine, and the decision of the committee is in line with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that the Agreement on the Free Transfer of the Helicopter can be ratified. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two for, two against. Alexander Sugonjako gives the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u32	The noble Ukrainians! 2016, 50 percent inflation, minimum pension - a thousand dollars, minimum wage - a thousand dollars. The lowest salary and pension in the world. And we are at this time, on Wednesday, when Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament are to adopt strategic, important, relevant bills, for example, to increase living minimums, and then increase wages and pensions, we are adopting laws on transfer, by the way, free of charge, of Ukrainian helicopters to a European country. It's a minimum length set. For today’s government, Yatzenyuk costs 250 dollars; for Yanukovich, it cost twice as much. I ask if we have the right to delay making decisions about the Prime Minister, who has disgraced the country, has destroyed the country. Making a decision about a new coalition that today is obliged to get the country out of crisis, do we have the right to delay at least one day before making these decisions? A party of common people demands the People's Front, the Peter Prashenko Block, even though you can't get together with the foxes, give the Prime Minister's country tomorrow! Give the country a new coalition tomorrow! People can no longer tolerate delays in making these important human resources decisions! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I haven't heard a word about a helicopter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask for your attention and your silence. I want to let you know that the next time the speech doesn't apply to the subject of the bill that is being discussed, I'm just going to stop the speech on the right of the leader. I warn you in advance that there will be no misunderstandings and images on that matter. Now the word is given to Bali's Eugen Vitaliovich, the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u34	Yes, Evgeny Balitsky, 80th Melitopol district, Melitopol district. Please pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u35	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we always have Wednesdays in the Rules, and we vote in favour of ratifying the Agreements between Ukraine and other States. The opposition block is always on all the days that the vote was held in support of the state agreements, because we think that only Ukraine benefits from it. Today we have decided to vote in favour of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government. between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic." For what reason? The adoption of this law will contribute to the deepening of good-neighbourly relations with the Slovak Republic, the strengthening of Ukraine’s international authority. And when this helicopter hits the Košice Aviation Museum, people will come and talk about Ukraine. They're not going to talk about "the opposition block," they're not going to talk about the war party, they're going to talk about Ukraine. I'm talking to people today who are trying to set the situation on fire. Don't start the situation in Ukraine with opposition, don't make enemies, don't lead Ukraine into civil war. If you have a zero rating as a speaker and you join a campaign, do not do it on the basis of the risks to Ukraine. And I'd like to turn to the speakers, it's very good that you cut the tail from the back, but you can cut off the tail from the front for such performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u36	Tymoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u37	Gentlemen, well, first of all, you've found the time to do helicopters, and second of all, you're so sweet to say, well, I don't believe you. Well, I mean, someone just wants to sell a helicopter and make a good copy of it, put it in their pocket. There's gonna be a holiday on our street, we're gonna have some good times, we're gonna build our museums, and we're gonna need these helicopters, too. He's standing there, he's not asking for food, he can stand for a few more years, and then he'll quit -- and he won't. Don’t be so good, remember your own! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of this bill is concluded. A vote is about to take place. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs, please. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are now moving to the voting section. Are the factions ready to determine the position? So I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the free transfer of helicopters (0083). The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:50:58]] For 196 196 is "for", not enough votes. I'm going to put the next sentence to the vote, so they can take it as a basis. I see there's been a lively and intense discussion about the helicopter. Maybe there'll be political will on the ground. That's why I'm putting another proposal under the Rules: voting as a basis. So the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic (0083) is based. Whoever supports this proposal: support this bill on the basis, please vote. Please make up your mind. Please vote. [[10:51:59]] For 210 210 for. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'm going to put it back once. I'm going to put it back once. If we collect votes -- we go back, we don't collect -- the bill will be rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues Ready to Vote? So who supports the proposal that came from the national MPs to go back to the consideration of Bill 0083? The discussion is concluded, colleagues, the discussion is concluded under the bill. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the bill, please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:53:21]] For 224 Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? If you'll excuse me, one minute. The MPs are not at work during the working period, and there is a key issue of not adopting our bills. No one from the Presidium will run around the buffets and call the deputies into the hall. Either the deputies will work, or we will reject just our international acts. This is a very simple and basic truth that applies to any Ukrainian citizen who is in the workplace and at work. And I'm warning you in advance when there's a vote. Once again, according to the Rules of Procedure, the draft law has been concluded, and we are now in the process of returning to the vote. It's not a discussion, it's a return to the vote. Colleagues, I'm returning to the vote. Bill 0083. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[10:54:51]] For 229 I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic (0083) as recommended by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:55:27]] For 229 229 in favour, the decision is made. The helicopter was handed over as a gift to the Košice Aviation Museum. I want to remind you that Slovakia is our partner, which is why we didn't take any cubic meters of gas from Russia this winter. It's just an act of partnership between us and our European partners. The next bill, according to the agenda, is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Professional education as a component of ensuring the country's human potential: problems and solutions" (4111). There's a proposal from the committee that we consider this ruling on a reduced procedure. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote on who supports the motion for a summary ruling. Please vote. [[10:56:51]] For 193 Decision taken. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailnovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u39	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Our proposal is that, on June 1st of this year, we discuss an extremely relevant and complex subject: "Professional education as a component of the provision of qualified staff capacities of the country." Today, the situation of vocational and technical education shows us the need for anti-crisis actions in training professional personnel in the country. This problem of providing a modern labour market in Ukraine is even more multifaceted and complex than just vocational and technical education. We need to look at the state of the labor market, and we need to see how today's personnel training and retraining system works for the labor market. We have to consider the question of relevance, what happens in the education system and the needs of the labour market. We have a sensitive question about the status of higher education institutions, the third level of accreditation, some of which will provide higher vocational education. So a complex (need) problem that needs the involvement of different ministries and different committees of the Supreme Council should therefore be resolved on the stage of parliamentary hearings. I call for the support and active participation of these parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against, please. Sugonako Alexander gives the word to Caplin. And I'm warning you, it's not a topic, and I'm stopping the speech. Please. Please, Caplin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u41	Those children, the parents of those children who are trained in vocational schools, have the same problems with the ability and ability to buy a long - term kit. That's what I'm saying. But I... If we go to a serious plane, Lila Greenevich and I have been to trade schools from all over the country, and the issue stands out. I don't know if any chatter and other hearings on this subject will solve this problem. Today, we must take extraordinary steps. And the only way out of this is by looking at the actual budget. From that budget, we need to get rid of a series of articles that separate political factions have calculated with other political factions for giving their votes for this budget and for giving those miserable children and those poor teachers who, from the bottom of their minds, are keeping this field and teaching our citizens. Another important ingredient. You have to pay back those debts that are in the budget today before the teachers. The third important ingredient. We need to avoid robbing a valuable asset in this area that is now being transferred to places, and that is where it is being decimated. With the individual political forces that are represented in Parliament today joining in with the shortcomings of Yanukovic, the Party of Regions on the ground, and desolating, and going about to decimate just as they do the entire material fund of our country. And the fourth important ingredient. Yes, we're going to teach millions of these simple Ukrainian children, they're going to be able to work. But where will they work? And whether we have the answer to that question depends on how fast we are, and again, I stress, today or tomorrow we will create a coalition, choose a new prime minister and new ministers, and in the end we will put countries on the lines of real social-democratic reforms, we will get a new quality of Ukrainian politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u42	Thank you. Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I would like to give the floor to our group so that our proposals are made by the deputy of Gulyaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u44	Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. Our group has always fought against this law, which has passed legislation for nutrition and wages on PTS, for vocational and technical schools. To date, many do not understand what is happening on the ground. On the ground, teachers want to cover roads. Three months' salary's gone. So the team of the Rebirth Party will adopt and vote in favour of any law and any decree that will apply to vocational schools. Because today we don't have any quarrellers, no potters. And what happens next? If we don't do anything in the Supreme Council in the coming month, then vocational school will just die next year. And people just won't walk, just go to the institute and act, get lawyers. And we want the team of the Rebirth Party to want this law to pass. At least the parliamentary hearings have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u45	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u46	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I understand that instead of holding parliamentary hearings on this subject, we need to hold an emergency meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to understand and save this direction. What is happening in the country today is seen as the destruction of vocational and technical education. There is little or no law on vocational and technical education that provides a prospect for development. There is no line in this development in the Education Act. With the adoption of the budget, almost the industry was put on self-sustainment. The people working in this industry are, in fact, on the verge of disaster to date. Who could change the situation? Regional administrations that now have virtually money in their accounts and could instead deal with the derebent and instead of campaigning could concentrate and finance this direction of development. This is not a question they are dealing with! We passed the law, after all, in this room. With tremendous difficulty, funds were cut out. It was unclear why and how the bill had been vetoed. It would be necessary to examine and see when this law came to the President's Administration, when the President vetoed it, and when he came back from the veto. Because it's a full detective investigation! In fact, there's a painting coming out, and notice who's studying at CTU today? This is one of the most vulnerable segments of the population. Who teaches in vocational school? These are the people, the patriots who really stayed to preserve the bone of this industry. We need personnel, we need men to upgrade, we need technical re-arms. We need new creative professionals who can come into production today and make competitive products! And we're on our own today, I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers, we're keeping this direction, this industry! So you can listen. But it is necessary to take concrete steps rather than to engage in interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u47	Before we announce the last speaker, I want to inform you that there will be a vote on this bill in three minutes, and I ask those MPs who are in the towers to enter the hall to prepare for the vote. Three minutes before the vote. Ivan Grigorovich Krilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u48	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, when the 2016 budget was voted on, we warned in three speeches that with such a vote in this section, there would be a great deal of trouble for the country. They didn't hear us. The trouble knocked on the door. The attitude towards vocational and technical education, like in a drop of water, is focused on the wild non-professionalism of today's government. 80 percent of the GDP, whatever anyone says, is generated by the workforce, by those in the fields, those in the March, those in the mine. Today, the training of labor personnel is outside the system of government coordination, state institutions. The funding was transferred as reform to the local level. Friends, in separate cities of district importance, separate renegades, where concentrated schools are their annual budget. Of course, the funding stopped. Tens, hundreds of thousands of young socio-active people on the street, without food, without pay. Well, it's wild! How was this possible? We adopt the law in this room, the government proposes to make a commitment to the President. Dedicated. The bill is dedicated. He'll be in the hall next week, or maybe tomorrow, beat the veto, save the country, friends. Internal factors have been added to external factors. I ask, colleagues, to vote in favour of this decision, for holding parliamentary hearings. Because unfortunately, we've given birth to another problem. Who today will give their child to the vocational school next year, which will give him a long life? The neighbouring Poland, with great pleasure, in the border areas and deeper, and deeper into Ukraine, is aspiring young people to learn in Poland. Because Polish laborers have gone deep into Europe, she lacks a working hand, and she will take up her hands in Ukraine. What do we dictate to Ukraine, my friends?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u49	Thank you. The Radical Party, at the time of the recording, did not get on the list, according to the Rules, I have to give the floor to a representative of the Radical Party. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our position is this: Parliamentary hearings can't help you with your professional education. We need a clear and concrete plan of action. First. Immediately settle all debts on the payroll of workers in the trade sector. The other one. The question of paying off scholarships, and primarily orphans, children deprived of parental care. Third. Return government funding to the vocational education system, not translate it into a local budget that does not have the necessary financial resources. Four. It's a key change in economic policy, it's a wager on labour. What kind of economy are we building? If the economy is raw, if the economy depends on the International Monetary Fund, then it's clear that neither carpenter nor bricklayer nor master is needed. If we want a successful economy, a future mother's economy, then we have to make a wager on the labor profession in order to have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now for the Solovay replica, one minute, please. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote, we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u52	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency. Dear colleagues, the reform of vocational education is one of the great examples that our reforms are geared towards chaotic steps and have no systems and have no end result. What we have today is real in places: district centres that have real funding still able to provide finance to the industry. Instead, trade - education facilities located in rural areas have been completely deprived of funding. And at this point, it's only a matter of time before they end their existence. Today, if we see it, the previous speaker said that Poland is investing and reducing funding today for Ukrainian students who want to study there. What does Ukraine do? Ukraine is reducing funding for education rather than investing in the sector. And that's why parliamentary hearings are on time today. We need to develop a system-wide complex program and vision strategically, how and what we will do in order to restore it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u53	Thank you. Now, from the will of the people, I'll give you another word. Only I have a request to all the factions, groups, when you're not on the list in the discussion, if you don't mind coming forward and telling them that you're going to be speaking so that I can know how many speakers are going to be there, and we're not going to find out. If not difficult, there are requests for factions and groups. Please, Mr. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should stop shuddering about reforms and first ask the question, who is responsible for today's riot in the field of trade and education? The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Parliamentary hearings should be held, but I think it might be too late, and there won't be anything left to say. Then tomorrow, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have to review the financing of the system of vocational education, which it held until June 1st, before the parliamentary hearings are given, to overcome the veto of the President for this law. And secondly, to adopt the Ukrainian law on suspending the transfer of vocational education to the balance of local authorities. If we don't do this, we don't have to hold Parliamentary hearings and we don't have to talk about reforms here because we've driven the country to a dead end and we're going to have to answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u55	Thank you. Self-help, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, the system of vocational and technical education has not been broken down yesterday or today, it has been successfully falling over the last few decades. Why? Because they didn't pay attention to professionalism or technology in our country, nobody needed it, everybody wanted to become lawyers and economists, no economy, no jurisprudence in this country. What we're doing now, we're putting out the fire, first, the fire of the past, and second, the fire of the non-professional government. We think that there's two budgets to fund a vocational education. Do not reduce public funding and encourage local budgets to raise those who are needed by the city rather than by some ephemeral government planning. The city should be actively involved in raising those and supporting those children that it needs to work. It's very important. Then there is double funding: both the state that basically supports this sector and the city that needs children who need to learn life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u57	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u58	They should learn, not walk around the door, smoke and use various other tools that make their lives "beautiful" (in paws). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it seems that all the groups and factions have come out of the People's Front was already a performance, if I'm not mistaken. So I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling on parliamentary hearings on "Professional education as a component of providing a qualified human potential for Ukraine: problems and solutions" on June 1, 2016 (number 4111), at the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:14:31]] For 243 243 in favour, the decision is made. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the author of the decree. The next decision is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Reforming the Information and Communication Technology Sector and Developing the Information Space of Ukraine" (number 4198). And there is also a request to be considered for a reduced procedure. And I ask for your support, to vote in favour of the proposal for consideration of this draft Order for a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:15:25]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications, Duncan Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u60	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! The High Council Committee on Communications and Information at its meeting on 19 February 2016 approved Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Reforming Information and Communication Technologies and Developing Information Space in Ukraine". I want to say that these recommendations were being addressed by the whole sector, the whole sector that should be the engine of our economy. Last week we met with the industry and showed the road map of the innovation of our nation. By 2020, the IT sector is ready to increase its output from $5 billion to $20 billion. That's what our country should use. These recommendations reflect a road map that needs to be taken and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, all the other executive bodies that need to be interested. It is of great importance that the European Commission's representatives on infrastructure and digital society also took part in these recommendations. Many of the provisions in these recommendations take into account the implementation of European legislation that our state should make. So I ask you very much to support these recommendations, to support the innovative development of our nation. And finally, start moving from the raw economy to the knowledge economy. Let's just cut to the chase. I ask you very much to support the innovative development of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record two for two for one, two against one. Please. Alexander Sugonjako predicts the word Caplin. And I'm predicting the rules of the Rules. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u62	First, I wanted to thank the chairman of the committee and all the members of the committee and those who participated in these hearings for their extremely professional conclusion. In order for the Ukrainians to pay attention to the relevance of this issue, I want to point out that today there are about 140,000 businesses in this area, where there are about 400,000 Ukrainians, 400,000 families, about 3.5-4 percent of the gross domestic product and the most dynamic sector that today is giving rise to exports and corresponding monetary output, and is a factor in stabilizing the balance of payments, and then the exchange rate of our national currency. We are obliged to listen to the recommendations of the committee concerned, the appropriate hearings on the part of the updating of matters. Organization of electronic governance issues. The committee proposes some 60 new legislative acts to address national infrastructure issues related to increasing the dynamics of electronic governance issues related to deregulation. When today's prime minister candidate, Vladimir Groisman, met with a group of IT students, they discussed the issues, and they assured us that if at least 20 percent of these recommendations were implemented, we are getting the nearest 3-4 years of market growth to 5 billion dollars, in the coming years of market doubling. So we don't have to hand over helicopters and bribe Slovakia to get cheap gas. We just need to develop internal, particularly intellectual resources. I urge the Ukrainians to have the opportunity, particularly those working in these businesses, to allow themselves to develop the food kit that is now near Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u63	Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the opposition bloc faction, certainly supports the information development of the State as a whole, the development of information technologies. But as a political force today, we are not voting for any of the bills that are on the agenda today, protesting that some members of the war party are criticizing the registration of those bills that would truly peacefully resolve the situation in Donbassa. We cannot stand with you and vote for those bills by pretending that nothing is happening in the State. Unfortunately, this opposition has reached its peak, and it is necessary to find solutions, not through mutual accusations, that is, decisions, not parliamentary hearings. The self-help representative here said, "Let's move from talk to action." Thus, one of the cases that has been carried out in particular with regard to information technology and education in general is the adoption of the relevant State Budget Act, which was voted by the majority when the financing of vocational education was effectively denied, when the financing of higher education was cut when the sectoral Academy of Sciences was abolished. These are the actions carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representatives of the so-called democratic coalition for the development of our education. And then, of course, there will be parliamentary hearings. What have you done to support information technology? Nothing. You didn't offer any economic preferences, you didn't offer any tax benefits. Information technology, industry is being held against the benefits granted in 2012-2013. This is a concessional tax regime that deals in particular with the tax on taxes. Tax on the income of natural persons. That is, it is indeed necessary not to hold hearings, namely, to enact specific laws that would be implemented in our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, prepare for the vote, take the jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Reforming the Information and Communication Technology Sector and Developing the Information Space of Ukraine" (number 4198) on the proposal of the Committee to take a decision as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:23:35]] For 199 The proposal did not get the required number of votes, and the decision was rejected. Let's move on to the next decision. Next Order (4250). This is a draft decree on 18 May 2016 for parliamentary hearings on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine". Mr. Yegor! Mr. Yegor, are we considering a reduced procedure? Yegor, short-circuit procedure? Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:24:33]] For-152. 152 in favour, the decision is made. And I invite the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption of Sobolev Egor Viktorovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u66	It's a very simple proposal from our Parliamentary Committee against Corruption. We have passed many anticorruption laws. We all see that most of them remain on paper. Proposal: May 18th invite in this room journalists - investigators, public activists, responsible leaders of the new anti-corruption bodies of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Agency and seriously discuss what to do to ensure that anti-corruption laws do not remain on paper. The request to support this proposal is made on May 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. We can't vote anymore. We need to talk. Please record: two for, two for against, please. Long Olesia Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u68	Long, faction of the will of the people. In short, our faction's position is to support the hearing data, and we think they're very timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u69	Alexander Sugonjako passes the Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u70	We will definitely support appropriate parliamentary hearings. But once again, from listening and speaking, we need to move on to a real fight against corruption. And the new institutions that we've been producing here for a year, two, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Anti-Corruption Secretariats, it's all up to the light bulb. Until you change the order of election of the Attorney General in the Constitution and the Ukrainian people choose him, and he will not be assigned to any basement or restaurant by faction sponsors, there will be no fight against corruption, we will never open an anti-corruption front, the prosecutor will execute, roof a business of one or the other factions, and we will never open an anti-corruption front. That's why the future is based on the Attorney General's popular election, the competitions for which prosecutors will be appointed in the fields. Look at what happens, for example, in the Poltava region. The whole country witnessed the city’s head, Mamay, refusing to participate perhaps a hundred or fifty times in a court hearing where he was accused of corruption. Then, when the elections took place, and he created a coalition, essentially a "broad" with, sorry, a faction of "Fatherland" in the Poltava City Council with part of the "Block of Peter Prashenka" faction, with Janukovich's blemishes of ex-regions that were transformed into other political forces. And today he's downgrading the city and sharing with the district attorney. The district attorney did everything he could to clear him of all charges. That's why we need to clean up the public prosecutor's office, and the illustration is real in the public prosecutor's office. But the key solution, the root destruction of corruption in the Public Prosecutor's Office, is to change the Constitution and elect the Attorney General through the popular vote. We will open a powerful front against corruption, led by the prosecutor, who will conquer corruption and become the president of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u71	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, are there still willing to speak on the bill? Opposition Block, Igor Shurma. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u72	Opposition Block, Igor Shurma. Dear colleagues, it is more necessary than ever to have a conversation and discuss the problem of corruption in our power because it has reached its peak. And I don't think there's anyone here that needs to be agitated. Our position was, of course, to discuss these parliamentary hearings. But today, because of the provocative performances of the Opposition Block, which represents two million people, and they're sitting here, we're refusing to take part, we're refusing to vote. Once again, we urge our political opponents to stop the fire in the political arena and to start the risk of civil opposition in society. Today, we must give in to our political ambitions for the sake of peace in the state. And if someone is not able to solve things at all and show that he is able to make changes in the state, there is no need to seek an enemy today. I urge you to stop looking for enemies, there will be trouble in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We're dealing with extremely important issues that concern information and communication technologies that relate to anti-corruption policies, and these bills fail solely because of the low level of parliamentary discipline in the room. And in fact, we're putting at risk the holding of parliamentary hearings, the absence of discipline. I'd like to talk to you about that, maybe we can exchange thoughts. My offer will be next. There's a signal vote going on. If we don't have 226 votes in the room, we're only going through the stage of discussion and we're not postponing important bills. Yeah? We actually have one decision, the draft decree didn't get the required number of votes, we can't even get back to it if there's no 226 votes. Colleagues, is my offer accepted? There's a signal vote going on. If there's 226, we'll vote on it. If there's no 226, we're just having a discussion. No objections? Is there any backup? Then please, colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. The signal vote is not about a certain bill, but only about Parliament's ability to make decisions. Please take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[11:32:00]] For 209 With your permission, colleagues, I will not put to the vote a ruling that we have just discussed. I'll move on to the next decision. We can't go back to the previous one, because there are no votes in the room to do that. It's a very simple basic logic. We can't! That's why I'm going to move to the next 4273, this is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Stan to uphold the rights of internally displaced persons and Ukrainian citizens who live in a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and in a temporarily uncontrolled territory in the area of anti-terrorist operations." Anyone who supports the consideration of this Order by summary procedure, please vote. Please. [[11:33:08]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u74	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! On February 17, for the first time in Ukraine, parliamentary hearings were held in this Parliament on the issues of forced displaced persons. Or, as they're called in the chancellor's language, internally displaced persons. It's not about thousands, it's not about tens, it's not even hundreds of thousands of people. This is about two million Ukrainian citizens who were forced to leave their homes because their lives were threatened. I would like to emphasize that our citizens, who have not left the territory of third countries, have remained in Ukraine. They are not just citizens, they are whole families. We have the phenomenon of divided families, some of which, because there was no other way out, remained in the temporarily occupied territory, and some of them left. It's not just about Donbas, it's about Crimea. Now the Human Rights Committee has prepared 74 specific recommendations addressed to the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, international organizations. It's about specific things that relate to social benefits, pensions that. It's about the damage compensation mechanism and compensation for it, it's about a lot of people. That's why I call all the factions. Andrew, I'm asking you to put it to a vote right now. We're also calling on the Opposition Block to support all factions' recommendations for parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u75	Thank you. Please sign in: two for, two for against, please. Lensky conveys the word to Oleg Ljashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When the House was full of Ukrainians from Donetsk, Lugansk, who lost their home today, the country was home because the authorities were unable to protect them, unfortunately there were very few deputies in this room during the parliamentary hearings. Similarly, there is no state policy regarding displaced persons, and, in fact, displaced persons, refugees, God forbid anyone on their own land to be refugees, displaced persons. These people lost their homes, people lost their jobs, and so, without betraying Ukraine, they left for free territory, and how their mother meets them today as we meet them. There is no government policy on housing, work, health care, social issues, finally, even kindergartens or schools where people from Donetsk and Lugansk can't, because it's their personal business and no state support. I think it's definitely unacceptable policy because if we really want to get Donbas and Crimea back, free the occupied territories, we have to fight for the souls, for the minds, for the hearts of these people and for the Donetsk and for Donbas. And to illustrate this is the attitude of the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian state, towards those people that we call displaced today. So what I'm asking the government to do is to make a draft change to the budget for the current year, where to anticipate housing, employment, medical, social and all kinds of security for almost two million Ukrainians who lost their homes today, there on our Donbassy, in our Luhansk, in our Donetsk. And the key and most important is the state policy, which is essentially to result in the return of these millions of Ukrainians to their homes. Unfortunately, there is no such policy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u77	Thank you. Arjev Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u78	My dear friends, I also signed up to interrupt the benefit of our colleague, who occupied the microphone today as Lenin’s Bronze. And I can say that this is not the position of our faction, all that was said today, but it is. In fact, it's a matter of fact. I would like to emphasize that we can demand very much from the government that it allocates money. The other question is where to get this money. Germany complains that 1 million refugees from Syria have come to it and says that this is quite a heavy load on the German budget. We have one and a half million internally displaced persons. Four percent of the need is financed by the state today. In this case, I can say that international funds, international organizations are virtually unhelpful, are more focused on the problem that is being highlighted in the media. And since Ukraine has actually taken on itself and is silently pulling all of these problems like a train, it turns out that international organizations are not so actively looking at the problems of internally displaced persons in Ukraine, but are only often distributed, as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has endorsed the entire list of resolutions that we have to make. Yeah, we have to do it, it's totally fair. But let's put it this way, if we're already in a situation, if the world is telling us that it's sympathetic to us, then obviously we need this compassion to be channeled into specific financial assistance for the relevant population categories, for internally displaced persons. I propose to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Bond Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u80	Thank you. President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! What are we doing now? We are currently discussing parliamentary hearings. Several aspects of the draft document. It is to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, submit relevant bills and draft acts for consideration by the Supreme Council. Can't we do that? You, the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, voted on the State Budget Act 2016, and you suspended article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on additional State guarantees to internally displaced persons. As you, like the Petra Poshenko Block, as the People's Front, Self-Help, all our Democrats, as you said at the morning meeting, you took these benefits away, and now with such a mine, the Democrats talk about it, and let the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduce this bill and restore these guarantees. This is cynical and even more cynical about Germany and Syrian refugees. Syrian refugees are not citizens of Germany, and East citizens are citizens of Ukraine and say that they are internally displaced, they are full citizens, whose State, by virtue of the Constitution, is obliged to provide social protection. We are building more dormitories for Syrian refugees in the Poltav region than we are concerned about the construction of adequate housing for internally displaced persons. We have one and a half million internally displaced people who do not have social protection. You're not fucking in this room, you're just holding parliamentary hearings. It is said that the danger of the opposition bloc is increasing. The opposition bloc is supported by these citizens, and the results of the support were particularly seen in the Horn of Curve. Such a result will be in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections, where you need to go in all friendships, you have lost the confidence of authority. It is not necessary to hold parliamentary hearings, but to legislate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u81	Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u82	Once again, good day, fellow workers, there were just those who had ruined everything, did nothing, and now they are proposing that others do nothing. I want to say that parliamentary hearings are talking to parliament with sectors that have chosen us here. And ten minutes ago, parliamentarians, who didn't want to, didn't vote, they'd go around the towers, they'd just spit in the face of a 150-thousand industry team. 150,000 people expected the results of these parliamentary hearings. You just spit on this whole area. For innovation, anyone here wants to fight? What innovation, if people just don't go and vote. Gentlemen, let's work and support the economy, not do business. We went back to the helicopter 12 times today to vote and decided on the helicopter. And we can't vote for 150,000 people! What a disgrace to such a parliament! And today I'm going to talk to all of the L.T.'s to have them put out on all the IT companies' websites those people who didn't vote for the future of the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u83	Thank you. With your permission, I'll give you a line and remind you, we will. Mr. Alexander, I'm asking you not to make false information out of the rostrum. Mr. Alexander, we voted twice on helicopter issues, according to the Rules. First on the basis and in general, then on the basis of a list of proposals. So please don't lie from the Supreme Council's rostrum. Now from Fatherland Rybchin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u84	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. This government has failed immigration policy, so there are three requirements from Fatherland for a new government, I hope that will be created, to deal with these issues. First. Deal with the shameful lack of payment of pensions and settler money, because we demean the dignity of our people who left Donbas. By the way, for the Opposition Block, Fatherland didn't vote in favour of this budget, because it had less settlement payments than half a billion dollars. At the time when Turkey received 3 billion euros for refugees and displaced persons. Therefore, this government should be more professional in negotiating with foreign partners. The other one. Help displaced higher education institutions and people in occupation to enter these institutions. We're drafting bills with Lila Mikhailna Greenevich, and with Quitus it's agreed, so this has to be a consolidated position. And the third. I see a chess game playing a role in the new government. There's no Deputy Prime Minister for Depopulation, there's no Ministry for Reintegration. But even though you will expand the mandate of Donbas recovery agency and get him out of the Minregio order, which has failed the restoration and housing issues and bridges. And the same bridge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the matter. We're going to put it in the list of decisions that have been discussed and made, although that's also the wrong way. To consider the right path is to have enough votes in the room. The next chapter to make decisions on the issues under discussion is, obviously, we agreed that we are not making decisions right now in this wave. The next question (this is from the first reading) is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase responsibility for employment of people with disabilities. We can and will be able to discuss the bill. And I'm voting on the proposal to review the bill in short motion. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:46:28]] For-167 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATOs, and people with disabilities from Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u86	Honourable People's Deputies, to your attention Bill 2299. First of all, I would like to say that the bill has been drafted jointly with the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and is fully supported by social organizations with disabilities. Its aim is to resolve the problematic issues that occur in the implementation of the Basic Social Act. on the basics for the social protection of persons with disabilities in Ukraine with regard to the implementation by enterprises of employment quotas. The need to address these issues was emphasized by the President of Ukraine in his Decree of 3 December 2015 on the Revitalization of the Work on the Promotion of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The system of job quotas for people with disabilities has been one of social policies since the 1920s. To date, this system is typical of most EU countries where employment standards for people with disabilities are set at between 2 per cent and 10 per cent, with 4 per cent of the workforce in our country. But this quota has not been met, and enterprises should be paid to the special budget fund for the corresponding amounts of administrations. But to date, this money is not paid because enterprises simply win the courts over the failure of the bill we are in. They should now make their respective changes. Therefore, the bill is proposed in part one to establish that the administrations for the employment quotas of persons with disabilities should not be regarded as a fine in the understanding of the economic court, which allows these economic operators to win the courts. We have to get that rule out of the way. Secondly, determine the right of the Social Protection Fund of persons with disabilities to self-calculate the amount of administrative sanctions in the event that employers have not done so. Third, report to the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u87	Thirty seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u88	Third. To submit to the Social Protection Fund the right to submit to the employer, on its own, the payment of administrative fees in the status of the executive document. Fourth, to establish the administrative responsibility of officials for providing the Social Protection Fund with a report on the employment of persons with disabilities in a timely manner. And the fifth, the last. Define the powers of the labour service to carry out checks on employers. The Committee, at its meeting, considered the matter and invited the Chamber to vote on its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u89	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u90	The findings of the GNEU are also relevant. Therefore, I request the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u91	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, our esteemed TV viewers! Our parliamentary group will support the proposed bill in its first reading. And I think that in general, in the hall, if you look at it like that, there's hardly any vote to support it. But once again, I stress that we support him. However, I would like to return to the question. Regrettably, the Chair has not been able to speak, but these are the issues that are being dealt with. Treatment of persons with disabilities, first and foremost. We're talking about employers now, and I'm talking about people with disabilities. There are more than 500 disabled persons in the Odessa region today who, unfortunately, were displaced from the east in the Odessa region sanatorium because of the events we have in Ukraine. At first, they were in the Odessa district at Sergeyevka resort, where they had been for over a year. To date, the State has not taken account of the obligations it has undertaken. Thus, these enterprises are now being bankrupted by the sanatorium. Now this category of people, poor people, disabled people, have moved to Kuyalnik, Odessa. Regrettably, the dispute between the district administration and the district council does not allow today to be settled with this resort, and today people are simply thrown out on the street, they go from institution to institution, they ask for help. I think I can hear not only from colleagues of the people's deputies, but also from the Odessa District Council, the district administration of the Odessa State. and, of course, the Cabinet of Ministers, because the share of funding was provided by the Cabinet of Ministers through the Ministry of Social Security of Ukraine. I ask that I be heard, especially by our constituents and those who need help and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u94	Good afternoon. Korchinska Oksana, Radical Party. The civilization of any country begins with an attitude towards the disabled. These sanctions, proposed by the bill, are extremely loyal to companies that still violate their obligations to persons with disabilities. We ask them to be supported in the first reading so that we can still strengthen all of these sanctions before the second reading in order to make it more convenient for the company to take a disabled person to work. You and I have a problem with a few thousand disabled boys coming back from the war. We need now and not only to support, we need to do a separate program. I am now addressing the Deputy Minister of Social Policy. Vasil Vasilovich, now in the country, the hotline should be working with the help of all the disabled people in the country, especially the boys who came back from the war. In this case, this program should be planned by the government, it should be implemented; all businesses, both private businesses, so utilities need to be proven informed, and these enterprises should be and benefit from taking disabled people to work, it should be a social commitment, and including all sanctions must be extremely strict in order for any enterprise to know that if they violate and do not take a disabled person to work, sanctions will be extremely strict. In this case, all parliamentarians should be clear only on the side of all persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u95	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u96	Thank you. The country's distinguished national deputies, respected colleagues, in general, it is a matter of employment for the disabled, it is very important. And when an institution such as the Social Protection Fund was introduced at the time, they took a European model, the ratio of the number of people with disabilities in one country or another to the number of people with disabilities. In some countries of the world, unlike Ukraine, not even 4 percent, but 5 percent, some of whom have 6 percent. But what is the minus sign of our approach in Ukraine, and why did we keep fighting? First, it's a duplication of functions. Imagine, this law proposes that the Social Protection Fund be referred to the question of employment of disabled persons. Ladies and gentlemen, then I have a question, why do I need a job fund? The Employment Fund, according to law, includes the employment of persons with disabilities. The second question. This law reinforces fines. But why is this law not distributed to the budget, to the enterprise of state ownership? So actually this law, imagine a mine where thousands of miners and about 200 engineering workers work, but for thousands of miners, this law introduces a rule that 4 percent should be employed by disabled people. You can imagine where to find a disabled person who could go down the mine with a miner. That is, before we raise the sanctions for employers and post taxes, and even fines, we need to approach this law conceptually at all, and we need to distribute it, and we need to work on the employment of people with disabilities in the budgetary sphere, that is, where the responsible state is, where the employer is a state, and only then will we be able to raise the social protection of persons with disabilities. I suggest that we approach this issue with due consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to address this issue? Vladimir Ariev, "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, very long disabled people and people with special needs in our society were in fact people who were overlooked by the State. And she said, "Don't let God end up in a wheelchair." Our urban infrastructure has not been adapted to people with special needs since Soviet times. There was absolutely no attention on the part of the local authorities. And this bill, which provides some preferences for employment, but most importantly, and the responsibility for failing to implement this bill, is a very important step. Because today we actually have people with special needs doing only our former colleague, the national deputy of the previous Suskevitch exclamation, who simply organized a fantastic paralympic assembly, which is the beauty of the Paralympic collectives all over the planet, and it is very successful. Let us today help people with special needs, develop and become full members of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u99	Thank you. So all the factions, the groups took advantage of their right to speak. Thus we concluded the discussion of draft Law 2299a. And according to our agreement, we are transferring it to the next day to make decisions from the issues discussed earlier. So we've discussed these bills that we've been able to discuss for a while. There's got to be a break under the Rules right now. But before that, I will read another announcement that came to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, according to the full statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I'm reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Suslovina Irina Mikolayovna as part of the Party's deputy faction, "Clock of Peter Poroshenko." Hello, Mrs. Irina. And according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30 a.m., we meet in the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. Please, dear fellows, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. Dear colleagues, the next bill in the agenda, is a bill amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act (2305a and 2305a-1). Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider it in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues who support the bill's proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[12:36:47]] For-57 The decision is not made. There is a political will for us to consider the bill in full procedure. I have to submit to this political will of the hall. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u101	How many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u102	Ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u103	Ten minutes, huh? Dear colleagues, you have before you draft Act No. 2305a aimed at strengthening social protection and support for one of the most socially vulnerable categories of people today are many children and foster families, as well as family-type children's homes. We all know that our country has been experiencing a deep demographic crisis for a long time and the population in our country is declining, and the share of young people and children in the structure of Ukrainian society is unfortunately falling. Over the past two years, because of failed social policies, more and more families in our country are simply unable to provide materially, grow up and put on their feet even one child, let alone many children. Therefore, under the most difficult conditions today, special thanks and support are due to all the many-child families in our country, including, of course, foster families, family-type children's homes, where orphans and children deprived of parental care are being brought up today. These are families where children receive parental warmth, care, and care. And you and I are obliged to do our utmost today to support such family forms of education. In 2014, we set ourselves the goal of preparing a national plan to ensure that there were no orphans in Ukraine by 2020 and that every child who had lost his own parents would receive a foster mother, a foster father. And we understand very well with you that if we work together to achieve this goal, we can certainly achieve it. But for that purpose today, people who are human beings who respond and who are willing to raise their families are ready to create family-like children's homes, who are ready to support their children today, who also need to create all the conditions and provide public assistance and support. Regrettably, however, the level of material and financial support provided by such families by the State is below the level of survival. I'm here to ask my colleagues on the left, and I understand the anecdotes are fun. Natalia, come on, please! The Self-Help faction, you have to pay attention! Here's an example of how we're looking at bills in this room: fun, funny -- we're talking about orphans. Got it. I'll get back to the subject of the problem today. Today, sociology clearly shows that the main social risk for many child families and orphans who are raised in the form of family education is the risk of poverty. Social policies should therefore, first and foremost, address such risks and ensure the necessary and dignified standard of living and quality of life of multi-child families. What, we see, is happening instead? We have a growing Government that is deteriorating the situation for such families and children who are being raised in them, depriving them of even the miserable social protection they had received before, and today taking away all social benefits from such families. With effect from 1 July 2015, social benefits for utilities and telephone services, as well as free medical prescriptions for children, are granted to many families only if the income per family member does not exceed a certain level. In 2015 this level was 1 000 710 bracelets, in 2016 it was 1 000 930 bracelets. But you and I understand very well that a child for 1 000 710 bracelets a month today learns, feeds, clothes, and, if, God forbid, he's sick, and he's not really cured. Under the law for every orphan child who is brought up in a foster family or in a family-type child's home, the State provides foster parents with two minimum subsistence minimums for a child of appropriate age. From 1 January 2016, for children under six years of age, there are 2,000 334 bracelets for children from six to eighteen 2 000 bracelets. While the Ministry of Social Policy estimates that these payments should be paid twice as much today as is necessary, the amount does not exceed 1,000 930 bracelets. Thus, on a formal basis, many families are deprived of the right to benefit from utilities and other services today. This absurd situation has lasted almost a year. And with the current shocking rise in prices, tariffs, services of the JCC, foster families and family-type children's homes, they are simply now on the verge of survival. And we already know those cases where children are forced to return to boarding homes and when there are fewer and fewer people every month who are willing to take foster children. Because they simply cannot guarantee the minimum level of social protection for these children. Such a savage social injustice against orphans who are raised in large families must be rectified today as a matter of urgency. What do we suggest? The draft law amends existing legislation and repeals the rule that the provision of social benefits to foster families and family-type children's homes is dependent on income levels. Children today, especially orphans, cannot be expected to depend on what the family has been able to earn a little more, and therefore the family will be deprived of the right to obtain a prescription medicine and the right to use a telephone or housing and utility benefits. And I believe that today's adoption of an adequate decision and the opportunity to correct the terrible mistake made at the beginning of 2015 will at least be the first step towards restoring social protection and social justice to many children, foster families and foster homes of the family, where orphans and children deprived of parental care are being raised today. I am very much asking to support this bill, because we know, in connection with the war, that the events that are taking place at Donbassa today are increasing the number of orphans we have every day. And the more adequate we will be to provide these children with protection and support and support today for those who assume tremendous responsibility, take children into their families, raise such children, create family-like children's homes, and we will take the right and good step with you to support motherhood, to protect children, for the sake of our future, for the sake of the future of our country as a whole. Therefore, I ask very much, my distinguished colleagues, to support this bill and thus to protect both the future of these children and the future of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Ukrainian National Deputy Ion's Maria Mikolayevna. The question, yes, excuse me, is three more minutes on the question. Please record the question to the reporter. Please, Mikhail Papiev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Natalia Yuriovno, this law is very important in terms of social protection, especially the children that the authorities have forgotten about today. And I want to remind you that for three months in a row, single mothers don't receive social assistance at all from the state. This has not been the case in all the years of independence of Ukraine. In addition, it has now been introduced that 100,000 single mothers have lost all their help. Please state what expenditure of the State budget is foreseen, at least for the implementation of this law? The Opposition Block will support this law. And we will work consistently to ensure that our children have a future in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u106	Thank you so much for asking. And I'm totally in solidarity with you that today, when you're trying to patch up the holes in that torn budget for single moms and orphans, it's probably just the biggest damage that can be done for your country. To date, we have 918 foster homes in our country. And many family homes have been able to obtain subsidies. But most of these children's homes, too, have unfortunately fallen out of the right to receive subsidies at income levels. I have not once asked the Ministry of Social Policy what savings they have received from the State budget by depriving orphans and children of many children. Regrettably, they have never provided a reasonable answer. So the cost of this bill is miserable, but it's very high.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u107	Thank you. There are no more asking questions. So thank you for the report. And the report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Jonova Maria Mikolayevna. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna is missing. Therefore, I invite the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Mr. I'm sorry, there's Jonah. Please report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, your knowledge of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act refers to the strengthening of social guarantees for many children and foster families and family-type children's homes. The Constitution of Ukraine assumes the responsibility of maintaining and raising children. And one of the highest social values of the state is the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of the rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, the prioritization of orphans and children under care, the care of foster families and children's homes of the family type. By July 1, 2015, many children and foster families, family - type children who have raised three or more children for less than a year, were handed over or those children who were handed over to them under care and care received a 50 - percent reduction in the cost of electricity and other services: fuel costs, apartment phone fees, and free medical prescriptions. But since July 1, 2015, another rule of the Ukrainian Law has become effective, and so today, in family forms, we can say that more than 73,000 255 children are being raised, which is 87.5 percent of the total number of orphans and children deprived of parental care. And only 10 percent of orphans and children deprived of parental care are raised in boarding schools. We can say the goals, the task of that. We need to adopt this bill in order to strengthen the social guarantees of many children and foster children and family-type children's homes. The adoption of the bill will strengthen the social guarantees of many children and foster children and family - type children’s homes, as well as ensure the practical implementation of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the State’s obligation to maintain and raise such children, i.e. their well - being. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u109	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, there's three more minutes on the line. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Please. Thank you. Please, Beneath Gennady Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u110	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. There is a question for the author of the bill that follows. Can you tell us today how much is needed in Ukraine, on average, for local governments? Why I'm asking this question because today the authorities of local self-government, despite the fact that they are strongly opposed in terms of decentralization of power and additional tax revenues. Although we do realize that it's not much of a cost, and they're more interested in today's, if you'll excuse me, in terms of taking these costs on the road, it's kind of like doing some kind of incomprehensible work in the direction of repairs and stuff like that, without thinking about kids. Is there anything you can say that you conducted? If not, I think your bill will be voted on in the first reading, between the first and second readings, to give these figures to Ukraine at all, so that people can understand what the level of numbers is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, we don't ask even in the first reading yet as a basis, because, in fact, the conclusions and the GNEU have made some recommendations. But you're right about the fact that it doesn't need funds from the government budget, and here, really, it's proposed to make more revenue available to Ukraine's State Budget in the first quarter of 2015. It means that he really trusts the local authorities. The problem is that there's transport costs here, that's, bringing children to preschools. And really, we're asking that. We ask you to take the first reading as a basis, and with the next observation we've already received, we'll take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u112	Thank you. The potential of the speakers is exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u113	Of course. Thank you very much, Maria Mikolayevna. I invite the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Dr. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! As soon as we heard the report of the two bills, it was 2305a and 2305a-1, where in fact the bill amended article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act (for strengthening social protection for many children and foster families and foster homes of the family type). In both bills, it is proposed to exclude part 8 of Part 8 from article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, according to which the right to benefit from municipal services is granted to many families, foster families and family-type children only if the size of the average total family income per person does not exceed the amount of income that gives them the right to social tax benefits in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the second bill (this is 2305a-1) proposes to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which obliges local executives and local self-government authorities to ensure that students, educators, students, orphans, children from single and multi-child families go to school and home. So the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to base the second bill on registration number 2305a-1. During the committee’s discussion, members of our committee supported legislative initiatives by Ukrainian national deputies to restore the benefits of community services to many families, family - type children, and foster families who raise three or more children. At the same time, since the second bill also regulates the issue of child care, members of the committee expressed their support for accepting it as a basis. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act (Registration No. 2305a-1), to be adopted as a basis and draft 2305a to be rejected. But I hope that for the second reading, when we wake up preparing these bills, everything positive in the bill 2305a will be merged into a single bill, which will also take into account all the positives of Bill 2305a. We ask for the support of Bill 2305a-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u115	Thank you. We have three minutes to ask. Please record, please record by clicking on the button. Igor Nasalik, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear friends. Of course, it is difficult to disagree with the arguments of both Mary Jonah and Natalie the King. But I just want to remind you, as a city head who worked in Kallus, that there were a lot of government programs related to food that were now transferred to the city council body, sports for everyone who introduced the Supreme Council and transferred it to urban finance, and this law. Of course, it should be supported, but you are once again transferred to the expense of local self - government. Please don't load them, they've got more problems than enough. And if you introduce these laws, you will also need to provide for funding under these programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u117	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u118	Indeed, this is a fair question, for decentralization of power today will be very difficult in terms of finance. But at the same time, I think that the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, should do everything to make sure that these costs are still allocated. And we should really think about our children. Otherwise, I think if we don't think about children, we won't have, as they say, prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u119	Andrew Galchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u120	Please give the floor to the Royal Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u121	I would like to thank the Committee very much for its consideration of these bills and for its very constructive work. I would also like to refer to the representatives of the coalition as much as possible so that as many of the bills that have been prepared for consideration by the Committee are on the agenda. Because it's probably the most necessary and what's in our hands with you today, what we can decide and do. To support orphans today, to support many children's families, to support single mothers today is no longer a policy, and it is just our human duty and our human duty. Therefore, I very much ask the committee representative to do everything in your power. And we will always support you in reviewing these bills as quickly as possible and in a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u122	Thank you. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Something. Thank you. And I think that, really, so we've already agreed on a committee that we have to, in fact, unify, so I've already said, let's take a positive from both the first and the second and unite, and we're going to do it in order to, in fact, this question of children should, as they say, be, really, the perspective of our society and the future of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Hennadai's crooked. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u124	I have a question for you. I would like to say that the People's Front faction will support Bill 2305a-1. And yet I would like to pay attention to the funding that is going to go, because that's a pretty principled question. I heard he had an answer. But at the same time, I would also like to focus on taking into account the overall additional revenue for today's local tax budgets that are now being paid to the local budget, because that's a pretty principled thing. And the second. I would like to say that for today, to make sure that we have today in the districts, well, in the districts where the deputy majors work, in the villages, in the areas where we have these buses working. And today there are programs, especially in the Kyiv region, where 20 buses or 21. We need to speed this up a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u125	Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u126	Indeed, you have told the truth, and you have answered your own question. And that's really fair and that's how it's supposed to be. If you look at what you said, I think that the bill actually has a beautiful way of life to protect our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for all those who wish to speak, I would like to make a message. Now we're going to have three minutes from the factions, and then we're going to have a performance by the national MPs. So everyone who wishes to speak will have more time than one minute. And now the time given by the Rules for Questions and Answers is exhausted. And we go to the next chapter -- this is a faction statement, three minutes from each faction. And I'm asking you to record the factions. Please. Kurilo Vitali passes the word to Irina Lucenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Please pay attention to one simple thing. Imagine simple mathematics. In a family-type house where there's a family consisting of a father, a mother and two children, and eight child orphans, the total income of such a family, taking into account the cost of each child-orphan state, is going to be about 26,000 dollars. When we're calculating the benefits or subsidies or other subsidies we're going to calculate the total income per person of that family, we're going to have a thousand 750 dollars. That is, given that the benefit is accrued or the subsidy is calculated at 710, and the total income per family member will be 2,000 dollars, the family will not be able to benefit from such benefits or subsidies. Then, during the winter period, the family of ten members, eight of whom are orphans, will not be able to develop normally. All expenses will be spent on survival, only on the payment of utilities. What equal opportunities will we have for such children in Ukraine?Oh, my God! We're talking about a full childhood, we're talking about the full development of children, regardless of the two in the family or eight, of which six, seven are also orphans. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be considerate in our approach to such a decision. I think the local councils are interested in not leaving this area, not looking for a better fate, children are our future. Let's invest in them by the time they're 18 years old. If they are fully developed even in such large families, we will have a worthy future, and they will remain in Ukraine. We think about our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Please, Alexander Danchenko passes the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u130	Host families and family-type homes are a working and quality form of foster care in Ukraine. Perhaps this is one of the few programs in Ukraine that has been created and worked, and today it is working. And we have to go with you to the goal, to what was already in Ukraine and Galicina and Central Ukraine, until the revolution of our release there were no children's houses. We must go to the point that we will not have children’s homes because the state will support the families that take those who have lost their parents. We can see how this works. Indeed, there are problems with government funding, such as those noted by previous applicants for benefits and subsidies, which are unfairly beaten at the expense of these homes and their parents. These two bills have both pluses and minuses. We are ready to support the Ukrainian Cabinet Bill 2305a-1. But if the Cabinet of Ministers and other authors agree to turn it on. On a committee to work out a really, really quality bill, we can and we can support that. So by supporting these alternative forms of orphans, we will indeed make those who take the responsibility of taking the burden of parenting and the honor of raising those who have lost their parents stronger, which means that we will make the children healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u131	Thank you. Wozniak Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front faction. He's handing over the Squirrels. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u132	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to such a thing. We, when we talk about the tax passage of students, educators, students of PTU, here we should focus attention and actually share the territory of Ukraine where this passage will be provided in two territories. The first is actually rural and district centers, and these are cities as big as Kiev there and so on, district centers. Thus, large cities that now have in principle sufficient budgetary resources and accounts, once again, of additional taxes that come from the sale of excise goods and so on, can secure this peacefully. If we're talking about district councils, they also have this extra tax. But at the same time, I'd like to focus on the fact that they already have the appropriate buses at school that work today, and it's much less far away, and it's not that many vocational schools or institutes that have to provide that kind of money. Now I'm pointing out that it's just a pay pass, not a free pass there, and in addition to those students, we're talking today about many kids who don't have money, the district council, or the city council on the spot can also make the right decision today at all about the free passage of any children. And some district councils or city councils are doing it today. They take regular buses from one village and take any children, all the children, from that village to another village. Our main task is that we somehow between the first and the second readings not to prohibit them from driving, not to restrict them in some way, but to give more rights and understanding, in a way, and to make more free decisions on the pay-as-you-go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u133	Thank you. Opposition Block, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Passes the word to the Royal Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, today we are considering the protection of orphans and many-child families. And I believe that, in this case, it does not matter who the drafter of the bill is, but most importantly, what result we will achieve here. I therefore ask not to put my bill 2305a to the vote, but to show the whole country today that the Supreme Council can unite to resolve the pressing and important issues. And so that all of us present in this room will support Bill 2305a-1 and decide to consider it in a reduced manner, so that in two weeks we can take a responsible decision in the room and indeed correct the injustice and the mistake that has been made. I also wish to support my colleagues who have spoken of the need for an integrated approach and the need for a comprehensive public programme today. We have an opportunity with you to make a colossal transformation by 2020 and to make sure that every child in our country has a family, we have that potential. And I would also like to request that a working group be established in the committee responsible for the child's youth policy and that representatives of all factions participate most actively in it. Because today, unfortunately, the orphans are getting more and more with each day, and many children’s families are becoming more and more complex. And we must assume responsibility, and we must make all the necessary solutions to protect our children, in order to support single mothers today, and by no means leave them today with the enormous problems and support of many children, and that is in our hands today. Therefore, the Opposition Unit will support Bill 2305a-1, and we ask all MPs to also support it, to support our children today and our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have speeches from the national MPs. I'm asking you to prepare for the speech. And I'm asking you to record the national MPs for three minutes. Please. Andrew Galchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u136	Please pass the word to the deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u137	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u138	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For the first time in three months, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has introduced legislation that has a bearing on the social protection of our citizens. And the nicest part is that it's about children, Ukrainian children. These two bills, they're very positive in their direction, but in fact, I'd like to remind you of some nuances so that we can deliberately vote and understand what the problem is now. These bills are about benefits, and I want to remind everyone that we have benefits in line with the concept that they've set up at the time, they have no relation to citizens' incomes. This is the only authority she took today that tied benefits to citizens’ incomes and confused such concepts as aid, such as subsidies. And now let's go back to the totals so that we can understand what this is all about. That is, these bills stipulate that only families with an average total income per person will be entitled to these benefits, one member of the family less than the social tax. Let's see, the social tax. Tax social benefits for 2016 are set at 50 percent of living minimum for working persons. The minimum wage for working persons, I want to remind you, is 1 thousand 378 dollars. So tax social benefits are 689 dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be ashamed of the fact that you're abusing people right now, in fact you're setting the law, and Irina Stepanovna here is a 150 percent right that will not work in her life. You will not be able to find a family, for there will be some beggars who will have fewer than 689 coins. Have a conscience. I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine because the amount of living minimum is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to remind everyone that according to the law, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and now the Ministry of Social Policy, should publish the actual size of the minimum of living. You look at the actual publication of this Cabinet of Ministers. It accounts for three times the amount laid down in the State Budget Act. So this is already a matter for the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I think the new Attorney General of Ukraine is primarily violating criminal proceedings and criminal conduct in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for causing the damage to the people of Ukraine in a particularly large way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u139	Besbach Jacob from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u140	Dear Leader! Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! Of course, this bill will be supported by me. I always have a little fear that we are passing very good social laws here. But they won't work, like everyone else doesn't. For the simple reason that colleagues had already said that the bill would simply fall into the local budget. There is no money in the local budget, respectively, again from the looks of it, as they spoke beautifully, but they did nothing in principle. I am in favour of giving specific money to social protection, and then there will be no humiliation, no walking, but social payments will be made clearly. We were just talking about our retirees' rides there a month ago. We talked, I think it went so well. What do we have now? The same thing is insults, people don't let go, people are limited. Who will consider these people? In a word, the law doesn't work. Nevertheless, it would be desirable for these things to be allocated specific money, and all social protection was expressed only in monetary terms. But since that's not the case, I'm going to support this law clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u141	Thank you. I was walking Vassil Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u142	Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. We will, of course, support this law, but I want to say that whatever laws are not enacted, they are ultimately passed on to local authorities at all costs. To date, we accept and give to the city, to the village, to the area. And what happens next is no one knows. The previous colleague, in fact, said that the law could work, perhaps not. As of today, many laws have been passed on the circuit boards, which have, well, their locals, that they carry children for free. But to date, we have forgotten about the local authorities, about the laws that we have united in the hall today, that we want to give them land to settle the settlements, we have forgotten about the united communities that we are talking about today, let's give the children benefits from local budgets. And the laws we passed brought 159 communities together, but no one gave them the land. Why would they give these benefits? One hundred and fifty - nine communities have been united and forgotten, and no one else has said anything about it. The next united communities will soon be gone because the laws we promise them do not go out and do not go out. So let us, if we are already united, unite and give the land to the village and village councils, including the united communities. And for this law, of course, the Rebirth Party will vote and support, but it will have to help orphans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u143	Thank you. Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I believe that among the great spectrum of legislative acts that are being adopted in this Hall, the Supreme Council, the bill that we are discussing with you today is very morally important, strategically important for the state and for the entire generations of Ukrainians. Because it's not just about solving the demographic problem, it's too deep in terms of the state's perspective, but it's about the whole category of children, families, families that need to create normal living conditions and development in our country. I am no doubt convinced that we must adopt this law, we must vote for it. I am convinced that this law should have a special status at the level of state funding. Because as a person who's been leading the Vinnitsky area for over five years, I can tell you that this tool worked for the state. We have created a family-type internet, a system of support for many children, and that is the morality of social policy that should be pursued by the government and supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I call on all factions, all groups of Ukrainian national MPs to support this bill, because it is not aimed at the strategic development of our nation, the development of entire generations. And by the way, even if we don't take the moral and ideological aspect of this problem, but take the purely economic, the costs that we have with you to support a sufficiently often inefficient state institution where we have children of orphans, and the economic impact of a family, a multi-child family, from a foster family, don't go in any way. Thus, this law enables us to have a very serious moral, strategic policy regarding future generations in our nation. I'm aspiring to actively support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. None. Royal Natalia Yuriovna. He is not involved in the discussion. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Yuri Romanovich! And Yuri Romanovich will say a strong word in support of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. You know, a lot of the right and very important words have been said about the fate of those multi-child families that today have been held hostage to the difficult economic situation in the country. Like many of my colleagues, I know the fate of orphans, we know the fate of those families where many children. This is also true of many families, and it is also a house. Family-type children's homes are adopted children. We know how difficult it is for them today. Neither do I need to pay attention right now to who is to blame, but our duty is both moral and legal: each of us has taken an oath of allegiance to Ukraine, to the loyalty of the Ukrainian people, and today those who suffer the most need our support. These bills are humanitarian, they don't divide the hall, they don't contradict us, they give us the opportunity to unite, to show that we are the Parliament of Ukraine, that we care about Ukrainian citizens, especially those who can't cope. These are the children that each of us must say are our children. These are the children for whom each of us is responsible as a parliamentarian. And to my profound conviction, we must vote in favour of these laws, and we must also anticipate the costs in our budget in order to be adequate to compensate the local budgets. And I am convinced that in this way we will give hope to people who have very often already given up. We are disappointed that we are able to make the right decisions, the right ones, and the right ones for the future. Thank you for your attention and ask everyone to uphold these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u147	Thank you. All the speeches that he wanted to make were over. Dear colleagues, now we have the final word. Reporter, is there a need for a closing word? There's a need. Please conclude, the reporter is Royal Natalia, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for understanding and supporting the idea of a decision today by a very harsh and very important bill. Once again, I would like to refer to the presiding officer today to make sure that we have decided on a reduced procedure for preparing him for second reading and that, together with the committee, we can all take into account in Bill 2305a-1 all the comments and suggestions that have been made today. I am sure that today we will give a very important and very strong signal to all many families, all mothers who, despite the crisis despite the war, despite all the problems in our country now, bear children, take responsibility and think about the future of our country, that is the most important thing for us. For the future of children, therefore, I call on everyone to support Bill 2305a-1 and to make an important and responsible decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u149	Thank you. Correspondent Ivan Dmitrovitch, is there a need for a closing word? There's no need. So we're done discussing this bill. We'll vote, as we agreed, the bill the next day in the section discussed earlier, we'll have a full discussion and put it to a vote when it's in the room. The next bill, which we have in our agenda, is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on responsibility for malicious disobedience to the administration's requirements for the execution of sentences. Dear colleagues, I have an address for you and I ask you to come to the voting room, colleagues. The bill is simple. In fact, only one article of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is deleted. And the author of the bill asks that he be considered for a reduced procedure. I know that a number of factions have a fundamental position in this consideration. For me, it is not difficult to put him on a full - time basis. But if there's any understanding of the room, I'm asking you to support the proposal. If you don't mind, girls, two more minutes. Mrs. Irina. Please support the proposal with a reduced procedure so that we can discuss it quickly and qualitatively. Colleagues, if you support me, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal by Packaan Valeri Vasilovich, the drafter of the bill, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues who support the bill's proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:30:11]] For-154 Decision taken. Thank you for your understanding and for your support. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Packaan Valerija Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u150	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. Good afternoon, everyone. I and the copyright team have introduced a legislative act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for malicious disobedience to the administration’s enforcement requirements (registration No. 2708). It is about removing 391 articles of the Criminal Code and regulating our legislation to European practice. The European Committee on the Prevention of Torture, inhumane or degrading human dignity of conduct or punishment emphasizes that we regulate legislation in this part. We are convinced that the deletion of 391 would not allow further abuse of the administrations of correctional colonies, stop abuse of administrations, and normalize and systematize human rights violations in correctional colonies. It is not a secret that, according to 391 articles of the Criminal Code are administrative, sorry, colonies or their leadership, the administration is the possibility of depriving the will of 1 to 3 years for any household or stuff that applies there, such as non-registration, non-registration of the bed, non-registration of the territory. This is a mockery, and it cannot be in our rightful state. We suggest that this article be excluded. And for similar violations of the legal regime, we suggest that we order such other contraptions as pretenses, alternating cleaning of the premises or territories of the institution. We now want to testify that in this way we are violating 21 and 24 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine on the integrity of human rights and equality before the law. I just want to show you the sentences registers, it's just part of the sentences registers that are currently allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u151	Please, five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u152	Administrations apply such articles. For example, the Sinelnikov City District Court of Dnipropetrovsk District: Mikhailov refused to clean the premises for three years. Well, that's absurd. Hamster City Court: Lysic, an anti-sanitary condition of a hatchet’s lump, 2 years ’ imprisonment Burdicchiv City District Court of the Gitomir Region: Not sleeping properly, 1 year of deprivation of liberty. And there's an ennoting number of such examples. We have to put a dot on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u153	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u154	Everyone please support the above-mentioned bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u155	Thank you. Palamarczuk is invited to participate in a report from the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law (Registration No. 2708) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for malicious disobedience to the administration’s execution of penalties. The project provides for the decriminalization of the crime provided for in article 391 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Evil disobedience to the administration's requirements for the execution of the sentence." And a reference to it in article 140 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The proposal for a project on the non-applicability of article 391 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is confirmed by the fact that the provisions of the current Ukrainian Penal Code of the Administration and the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine have sufficient legal tools to influence malicious violators of the penal regime. In particular, this is the transfer of a violator to a disciplinary isolation system, which is also abused by correctional workers. With that distinction alone, the condemned is not obliged. Being really guilty, for a formal reason, placed in a disciplinary isolation, at least it doesn't get any more judgment. In addition, article 391 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for the possibility for the staff of correctional colonies to use unwarranted involvement of individuals convicted of criminal liability solely on the basis of the conflict between the latter and the administrations of such institutions. Since the condition of their application to a court - appointed person is that he be punished in the form of a restriction of will or in the form of a deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time for committing another crime, it is the result of two charges imposed on a person for a misdemeanour and contains signs of misconduct of a disciplinary or administrative nature. In view of the foregoing, with a view to halting the practice of unjustified criminal repression, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Bill No. 2708 be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u157	Thank you for your time. And now I'm asking you to do a recording: two for, two against. Please. Yuri Timoshenko will speak from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u158	My friends, recently my assistants, visited the Kharkiv colonies with such a small inspection, it was the first trip, the next trip I will go with them. And what they're saying, it's just the hair of a hole. You have no idea what kind of catas and what kind of inhumans are working, especially in these colonies and across Ukraine. And I used to compare what some boys said they had survived in the separatists ’ captivity to what some prisoners had experienced in our elite colonies, probably in the colonies much scarier. And one more thing. The administration is very manipulative of this article by blackmailing the prisoner that right now we're going to give you an article and you're going to get a few more years. And if you don’t want to, you have to pay up to $15,000 so you don’t get this article. This article. The existence of this article is a plantation of incredible corruption on which bandits in the pursuits that work there are exploiting incredible assets. Please support everyone to undo this disgraceful article so that it will never happen again. And remember, each one of you may be voting for his future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u159	Thank you. Vassil Alexanderovich used to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u160	The Rebirth Party Group will, of course, support this bill because, as the rapporteur said, for cleaning up the tuber for two years for not sleeping in its place for a year. Well, of course it's really wrong. Once a man could have stepped back and not let God get into this prison, and there's no way for him to get out of there. So we must support, and we, the Rebirth Party Group, ask for support and requests everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u161	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, please, John Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u162	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In the context of this important bill, which provides for responsibility for malicious disobedience, for the administration of execution of sentences, for the institution of execution of sentences, I would like to point out that the faction of Fatherland is voting for it. But, you know, this bill is very topical about what I want to say right now. I'd like to inform first of all the society that's going on in the session room. We can go back to the times when we were talking about "carcases" and "touching." So now they're trying to repurchase national MPs who went into other factions and were selected by lists of other factions to join the factions that are planning to form a coalition. In this context, I would like to remind you of the 2008 decision of the Constitutional Court, which directly says, "By which party is elected, you must be in that faction. If you enter another faction, you break the Constitution and become a dead body. Be vigilant and watchful!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u163	Thank you. Are all factions and groups? No, it's not. Ever since the People's Front, the Podobrenjak. Please turn on the microphone. Submarine, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u164	I have a request from the previous speaker. If he has facts that prove they're repurchasing MPs, I ask him to go to NABU and publish these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of this bill is concluded. As we agreed, the vote will take place the next day in the section "On the Issues previously discussed." The next one is Bill 1297. But the drafters of the bill. 1297. The author of the bill would like to propose that it be withdrawn, and so I would like to give the floor to the author of the bill and to the representative of the committee of Palamarczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u166	President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement considered at its meeting on 4 March 2015 the draft Law (Registration No. 1299) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship by persons who have committed crimes against the foundations of National Security. The development of this project was caused by an increase in the number of citizens at the time, who for various reasons acted against the foundations of National Security and, as a result, the need to increase public influence on such actions. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code and the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, which introduces the possibility of halting the Ukrainian citizenship of persons convicted of committing crimes against the fundamentals of Ukraine's National Security. Thus, as a result of the application of the draft rules, persons who are criminally held responsible for committing crimes against the foundations of national security will become stateless. This is not in line with one of the principles of Ukrainian legislation on citizenship, the prevention of cases without citizenship, which is in line with the European Convention on Citizenship. In other words, the bill contradicts the Constitution and cannot take effect. Therefore, in the event that such a rule is actually introduced, it is necessary to start with changes in the Constitution, where it is necessary to change the rules on direct prohibition of the deprivation of citizenship. It is noteworthy that the Venice Commission has recently supported almost similar changes to the French Constitution, and by February 9, this year, the French National Assembly had constitutionally legitimized the deprivation of citizenship of persons convicted of terrorism. So the most important decision is the drafting of a new bill that is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian laws and international legal acts in this area. In view of the above, according to part two, article 104 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes the decision of the Supreme Council to withdraw the bill and withdraw it from consideration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u167	Thank you. Thus, the committee and the committee request that the bill be withdrawn and that a positive vote take place in order for the decision to be taken. And we're going to make this positive vote for the removal, when it takes potential in the room. Dear colleagues, we have 15 minutes left, and we can consider the next draft of the 3129, but only on condition that we go through a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please don't come out of the hall, colleagues, I'm asking you to step back into the hall and prepare for the vote. If there are not enough votes, we will have to follow the full procedure. The next thing we have under the Rules is a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase liability for damage to oil, gas and oil pipelines (3129). The author is Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Unfortunately, there is no record of this bill. Belka Olga Valentina is not in the hall, and without a report we will not be able to consider the bill. Next, 2544a: draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. Is there a reporter on this issue? There's a reporter. Colleagues, I understand, are an offer from the rapporteur to consider a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please enter the Chamber of Deputies, please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote a proposal to consider draft Law No. 2544a under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:45:51]] For-140. I will use my right under the Rules to make this proposal again. If it doesn't work, we'll consider the full procedure. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to take some jobs, colleagues. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? So once again, I'm proposing a review of the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 2544a) to be considered by a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:46:52]] For-152. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Justice Minister, Janchuk Anton Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 2544a). The draft law is designed to reform legislation on the use of infrastructure and public keys and to provide electronic trust services taking into account the experience of the European Union. To bring Ukraine's Digital Signature Act into line with EU Regulation 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on Electronic Identification and Trust Services for Electronic Transactions within the Internal Market. In other words, this bill is a typical example of the approximation of Ukrainian legislation, the approximation of European Union legislation. And the main advantage, the main legal consequence of the adoption of this law, is that standards for the issuance of electronic digital signatures, their functioning within the country will become the same as in the European Union. Accordingly, electronic digital signatures issued in Ukraine will be identified as appropriate in the European Union, and electronic digital signatures issued in the European Union will be recognised as appropriate in Ukraine. The implementation of the law, if adopted, will not require additional funds from the state budget of Ukraine. The project is agreed upon by all the committees of the Supreme Council and has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support and emphasize that this project was introduced to the Supreme Council as early as August 2015. His acceptance is one of the commitments of Ukraine under the Association Agreement. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u169	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u170	Good afternoon, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications considered its meeting on November 17. On November 17, 2015, the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 2544a) was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to say that this is an impeccable bill and one of the few, unfortunately, that the Cabinet of Ministers and other experts have prepared very thoroughly and very well. The main scientific and expert office made some remarks to the bill, but in a general conclusion, it was stated that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments made. This bill is taking the first step towards a truly digital society in our country -- electronic trust services. It aligns, allows our nation to cooperate by electronic digital signature, by other electronic services, with all of Europe. One of the main issues is how to solve the cross-border exchange of electronic trust services with the European Union. The committee voted unanimously and supported the bill. Please also take this step towards really European legislation, to build two-way electronic services in Ukraine. The committee approved: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Register No. 2544a), submitted on 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u171	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u172	published on 31.08.2015 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I ask you very much for your support when everyone is in the hall, and for your vote. This is a bill that is fully in line with the current movement of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to record: two for, two for, two for against, in the discussion of this bill. Please record. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I believe that this bill is, of course, absolutely necessary today. Most of the countries that have developed long ago are using one or the other electronic services. And if we look today at how rural, beloved, urban, district, or district government, or local self-government, we'll see that for the most part 90 percent of all documents are paper-based. And of course, these things need to be harmonized both to simplify these procedures and to open access to these procedures. But I would also like to point out that we have a lot of necessary drafts to discuss, but they are not accepted for the reason that there are no national MPs in the room. And so, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I propose that we consider a proposal to impose a fine on the National MP for not voting on any bill by amending the Supreme Council Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u175	Thank you. Before I give the next reporter a word, I will comment because I have had an appeal. Dear colleagues, it is not possible to impose an MP's fine. I am drafting a bill that may be binding on penalties similar to those proposed by our authors and by Sergei Leschenko, Mustafa Nayem, for not personally voting. It has found a good mechanism when it is possible to influence the people’s deputies by means of internally regulated forms of their work as a national deputy. And in fact, this is really not the only form of influence of the National MP for not attending meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we should get to that, because otherwise the Supreme Council will be paralyzed. Come on, join the discussion, and we will jointly draft a bill that would oblige national MPs to go to work and vote. I am sure we will do a great service to Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you. Sidorovich Ruslan, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u176	Please pass the word to the Scripper Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, this bill is one of the necessary things for us to be able to do electronic governance in the country. There's four things. and electronic signature, general data, registers so that we can run normal services. Even more important, these services should be compatible with the European Union from the point of view of standards. The problem with Ukraine is that we now have 17 electronic signatures that match our Ukrainian standard but are not compatible with each other. So any harmonisation of what we agree and do, we move to a single standard, and we confirm that European electronic signatures will be recognized in Ukraine, this is a step forward in order to eventually launch complete normal electronic governance in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u178	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u179	Thank you. You know, when you get acquainted with this bill, I have the impression that this bill is the result, or some scientific work, or some grant, because it's a categorical instrument in general, it's overloaded and it needs to be facilitated. The other question is that when you listen to the reporter, yes, and the drafter of this bill is the Ministry, I have the impression that they're proposing to put this law into effect in all spheres of life, and they're still writing that these services will be served on contractual principles. Dear colleagues, so that we don't have to go out like with the court, that we have now effectively closed all Ukrainian citizens to the same way that this bill does not work out, that we will bring it into all spheres of life and these services will become inaccessible to our citizens. It is therefore proposed to support this bill in the first reading, but for the second reading to facilitate it in terms of terminology, ease and ease of application of the bill, and so that the use of electronic trust services is accessible to citizens of Ukraine and individuals and legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I mentioned during the performance. They haven't come out of Self-Help yet, have they? Who? Scrapper, please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u181	I can't help but react to the performance of my esteemed colleague Papiev, because in principle, electronic signatures and electronic services are completely different things that don't depend on each other. Electronic services can't be done without an electronic signature, and whether they're free or whether they're paid, it's up to us. But if there is no normal harmonised electronic signature, there will be nothing. So you have to figure it out first, and then you have to say either pay or pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u182	Thank you. Was the name mentioned? I didn't notice. A name was mentioned. Society, this could be endless, I'll tell you. Let's do the lines in a row. At first, the name Lechchenka was mentioned, and then your last name was mentioned. So 1 minute of Sergey Leschchenka's lineup, then Papiew. Please, one minute, Sergey Lechchenka. Two minutes, turn it on. Sergey Lechchenko, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Thank you for bringing me up with Mustafa. I just wanted to point out that the bill is, of course, correct, but this Supreme Council is not going to vote for it, because there are no MPs in the Chamber. This is another sign of a political crisis. There are literally several factions, the rest -- Wednesday again, we're walking again. Friday will be the same. The political crisis is on the rise in our country. There is no government, one faction blackmails two large factions. We've already begun to gather individually into the factions of deputies to bring the number of BPPs and the People's Front to 226. All of these are, of course, kind of dead ends. The problem is that there is no political will to reform. There was another significant event yesterday. Shockin was finally released, but the new president didn't. Today, the President is going to America, from America, to Japan, only to return to Ukraine after April 7. So we don't have a Attorney General. Yesterday, Saquarelidze was released, and the last swan of the song was Shokina. The person who fully discredited the Attorney General's Office has released that deputy who fought corruption, who has exposed so-called "diamond prosecutors" that the whole country already knows about. Instead of offering a real candidate for this post, the president took a break. We'll wait again for them to form a government along with the Henprosecutor's office in one package. This is unacceptable because the prosecutor must be an independent person. The rest of us are increasingly deepening the political crisis that is happening in our country. And that's why I'm asking the citizens again. Please press on this political class, press on this parliament to change the Electoral Law. The election is on the table, everyone sees it, not to miss it. But if we go to these elections for the parliamentary law, which is valid, which was adopted by Janukovic's thieving plot, the corrupters will return to the Supreme Council. Where you see deputies, ask why they do not accept the European Electoral Law. It has to be ready for us at any time, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. And one minute, Papiev. And we're going to conclude the discussion of this bill. Please, one minute, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a very big request for colleagues from Self-Help to at least listen to what their colleagues say and speak about. If I'm talking about electronic trust services, and I'm not talking about electronic signature here, I'm going to ask you a very simple question and I'll give you an analogy. There is insurance, there is voluntary insurance, there is compulsory insurance. The same is true of this law. Reading the text of this law gives the impression that electronic trust services are required. And the same law states that they are served on contractual principles. And I had one question: that they would be available so that they would not set such a price for these services that they would become inaccessible to people, would not make life easier for them, only by the judicial congregation, would they make it worse and would not make it available at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-30-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will thus conclude the discussion of the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 2544a). We'll put him on another day. Although in principle, according to the rules, we should decide to vote no matter how many deputies there are in the room. And I'm going to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can continue to do exactly as the Rules require. And as of today, the time spent in plenary mode is over. After lunch, committee work. And I ask everyone to work actively on the committees. Tomorrow we meet at 10 a.m. to continue our plenary sessions. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
