ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! The time allocated for the break is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Dear colleagues! Please invite everyone into the hall and prepare for your registration at the evening meeting, please. Colleagues, please register in a minute. Please come in. Colleagues, I see, we can move on to registration. I'm asking you to prepare for registration and please register. Please, colleagues, please register. [[16:07:11]] 360 deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we now have licensees from the Kyiv military plane named Boden of Boyarka in the balcony, including 33 children of families who have died. 8th Company. Seventy-five flight attendants. Let's welcome ours. [[Applause]] We wish you the spirit and courage and all of us victory over the invader. Congratulations, boys! Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We have the following bill: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated approaches to water management under the basin principle (3603). It's actually the last bill in the section "Ecological Policy." But before going to his consideration, John Petrovich asked the head of the subcommittee, Rybak, to speak. And I'm asking you one minute to listen to the position of head of the subcommittee. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head, for the opportunity to say a few words. The bill has indeed been thoroughly worked out, but unfortunately, there are several amendments that today, namely, 24 amendments, have been rejected. I ask that we not be able to overthrow this bill, carry it literally through two bills and consider it in order to hold some consultations and then come out with an agreed position and report on the substance of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u3	Dear colleagues. Thank you very much. I'd like that. I'd like to ask you in the hall right now. Ribak Ivan Petrovich asks us to give an additional 20 minutes for consultations so that we can consider the bill in two. This is the right of the author and the committee to move. Is there any objection in the hall? Is there no objection? Colleagues, then it's accepted, after two bills, I'm going to put your bill on the table. And I would like to ask you to hold consultations in the hall at that time so that we can get a positive vote. So we move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Development of Domestic Production by encouraging investment in the real economy through industrial parks. These are bills 2554a and 2554a (deputy). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Is there support for this position, colleagues? Is there support for everyone? Colleagues, please come into the hall, there will be a vote now. Please, we're going to the vote now. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to review the bill on industrial parks 2554a and 2554a (deputy) under reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:11:38]] For the 110. 110 for, colleagues. I'll put it to the vote again. If you'll excuse me, I'll put you to the vote again. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. And I want to point out, if there's no votes short, we're going to go over the full procedure, colleagues. So I'm once again proposing, reviewing bills 2554a and 2554a (deputy) under reduced procedure. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[16:14:04]] For 124 Colleagues, there's no room for short notice. My colleagues, I'll put it again, I'm not limited to the Rules, but I'll put it again. If there are no votes, we follow the full procedure, colleagues. So I'm going to put once again who supports this proposal, please vote if there are no votes we're going to go to the full procedure. So, colleagues who support the proposal for a hearing of 2554a and 2554a (Deputy) under a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we vote who supports the vote, please. Vote. [[16:15:11]] For-151 151 for. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I present to you the bill creating investment incentives for new production in Ukraine through industrial park mechanisms. This is one of the few, frankly, of the five instruments that can change the economic philosophy of both our government and our country and change the quality of the budget. These also include the Export Credit Agency, the State Development Bank, the Small Business Support Agency, the State Private Partnership. Dear colleagues! What are we talking about? I'm not talking about successful Asian countries anymore about creating an incentive regime in Ukraine through the industrial parks mechanism that will allow us to invest in the country and allow us to at least get a little bit equal in terms of investment attractiveness with our countries: with Poland, with Slovakia, with Turkey. This bill foresees the characteristics of taxation that will operate on a temporary basis, including the exemption of 5 years from income tax and 5 years -- half of the income tax, the removal of import duty on production equipment, and the five-year schedule of import VAT on production equipment to be used in new productions. I would like to point out that these bills do not pose any fiscal risk to the budget. Since they will only be distributed for new investments, they will be distributed for new productions. They fully fit world practice, unfortunately, are much weaker than the incentives that are in place today in Turkey, Poland, Macedonia. But they allow a substantial improvement in the business climate to create new productions compared to what we have today. These bills are supported by local authorities and leading associations of manufacturers, employers, entrepreneurs. I will list just a few subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u5	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u6	Thank you. This is the Lviv District Administration, the Church District Administration, Zakarpatsky, the Sumu District Administration. This is a series of city councils: Dniprodj yinska, Korostenska, Šostkinska, Burstinska, Uzhgradska, and so on. These are associations: The Federation of Employers, the Committee of Entrepreneurs of Lvivščina, is the Association of Ukrainian Employers, Ukrainian Builders, Ukrlegprom and others. In total, almost 50 letters of support from the branch associations of the authorities. I would like to point out that Turkey's similar experience suggests that from 2 to 10 years they created 148 parks in a similar scheme, they gave away the last dollar of the IMF loan in the 13th year. In the Czech Republic, it's a similar story. In China, 37 percent of exports and 33 percent of investments are provided by a similar tool — industrial, manufacturing, export oriented. I would like to point out that we have carried out very thorough drafting of these bills on the profile committee led by Nina Petrovna Jujanina. I want to thank all the members of the committee for the work we have done with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u7	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u8	It is of great importance that not only the production associations, the local authorities, have heeded our initiative to this day. The Prime Minister of Ukraine officially stated that the industrial parks initiative, like the Export Credit Agency initiative, is supported by the government and will be used to change economic policies, create new jobs, attract investment and achieve the country's financial independence. So, honourable colleagues, please support the revised draft of this bill with the letter "d", agreed with the committee, on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u9	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on 20 April 2016, the Ukrainian National Deputies made a proposal on the need to introduce an amended bill for the first reading of the draft bill, which presented the work of a working group working together with the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the State Fiscal Service. Now, I want to go back, make it clear that the bill has been drafted. The amended bill provides for an exclusive list of criteria for participants in industrial parks that have the right to apply the characteristics of taxation, such as income from economic activity: production of food products (code), production of non-alcoholic beverages (class), light industry (splits), industrial production, information, scientific development, which is not less than 70 per cent of income from production, goods, work, services; the size of paid salaries to employees is not less than 3 per cent of the minimum wage; and the average number of employees in employment is not less than 30. With regard to the exemption from income tax, the exemption for the first 5 years and the application for the subsequent 5 years of the half - interest rate, that is, 9 percent. Third. It is offered to industrial park participants, creation initiators and management companies included in the register of industrial parks, when they are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine on their application in the customs regime for import of equipment, equipment and raw materials to them without raw materials to grant the right to pay the added tax for up to 60 calendar months without counting interest and pennies. It is proposed to include the return of VAT in the first register.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u12	To the initiators of the creation of management companies, industrial park participants, do not apply the criteria for the presence in the payer of non-reversible assets, whose cost is three times the amount declared because it can be on the balance sheet of the management company. I emphasize that all benefits from local taxes on industrial parks can be granted to local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u13	One more minute, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u14	Dear fellow workers, we were very well aware of the negative consequences of previous laws. This is about the free economic zone, about the technology parks, so to clear up all the different interpretations in order to eliminate such a single approach to industrial park participants, all the clear criteria that can be used for such benefits have been written. In addition, if you read carefully the entire draft law, there are a lot of articles on the control of such taxpayers, and that's what's most important. That is, the quarterly reporting of all industrial park participants on the income derived from the freed activity, i.e. activities with income tax benefits and other activities. If such a tax payer, a member of an industrial park, does an activity not prescribed in our draft law, he taxes his profits at a general rate of taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u15	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u16	The benefit received, the more faithful payment of the tax on the added value of the claim for 60 days, is obliged to charge the entire benefit to the tax liability. So the nuances that we've had in previous years, we've all cleaned up. Committee decision: Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt an amended bill as a basis. Still, if you have any further comments, we'll count them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u17	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for a thorough report and an explanation of the risks, and how they may turn down. And now I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u18	Pinzenic, huh? Good afternoon, please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I think this bill is no less important than the one that at the time washed tens of billions of dollars out of the country through so-called joint ventures when ten years of tax benefits were paid to joint ventures. As this ended for the country, I think the country remembers all the investments that it has made, the multibillion-billion-dollar real investment in the economy was due to joint ventures, and it is until now that the country is washed away from the so - called benefits that were granted then by the law that made it possible. But that is not all. I think that when in 2005, the government that came after the Orange Revolution and looked at the structure of Ukraine's budget under working, so-called, tech parks and other free zones, it became clear that the country actually found itself in a situation where the best investment in Ukraine was the production and import of cucumbers, it was the export and import of beer, vodka and any other excise goods that actually led to the elimination of the country's budget. And it was the cessation of such tax breaks that led to an additional 60 percent of the country’s budget in 2005. What is most important in this law? Are there tax benefits? Is there an account? Is there a customs territory where this activity is actually controlled? I didn't see it, even in a working law. That's why when this law, and I think it has to be worked out by the copyright team, when it's worked out, we can go back to it and take into account all the mistakes that have been made in previous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u20	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk. Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u21	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is distributed to all sectors of the Ukrainian industry without exception, to all processing, distributed throughout Ukraine, there is no restriction, there is no monopolization. It's the only real tool not just to formally transfer taxes to places, but to give local communities the opportunity to create new jobs, attract investments, compete to have an investor. This is the path that we are proposing, followed by Turkey, Poland, Slovakia. Poland, despite its accession to the European Union, has maintained such an approach as exclusion, and today we see that they have three times as much GDP as we do. And we went our separate way, went along Moldova and Georgia, and we came to where we are now, where we have GDP three times lower than in Poland and even twice as low as in Belarus, which we were ahead of in the 1990s. So it's not a political declaration at all, and it's a real, active mechanism that we can get a little bit closer to doing business in those countries. Are you saying Macedonia is a big country? A few million people. Maybe they're stupid enough to build industrial parks and free up ten years not only from income tax but even exempt individuals from income tax? Why? But because people have jobs, they earn, and they pay their wages in the country. They're buying, they're taxing on another circuit. So if you want the country to be economically strong, you have to support these laws: industrial parks, export credit agencies. And if you want Putin to take us with his bare hands, then clearly, you have to tell beautiful tales that without any tools, we will build a skyscraper with our bare hands. We offer a real tool. Anyone who understands industry, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u22	Thank you. Burgundy Andrew Valeriovich, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u23	Comrades, good afternoon! Should we support the development of industry in Ukraine? Yes, it is. Should we create jobs and create conditions for them? Yes, it is. Should we create the conditions under which the Ukrainian economy will be more attractive than the economies and tax systems of countries around it? Yes, it is. But let's not choose tools that worked in Europe 20 years ago. We've done this and tried it. In addition to the abuse of free economic zones, there was nothing incomprehensible. We need to put in place the best practice. In fact, your bill offers two key things. Exemption from income tax and tax dissipation at added cost. I think any manufacturing company will tell you that they don't need VAT distress. Because they're importing equipment and they're paying off right now. By producing the product, they can pay for it with a product. Indeed, it is important to be exempt from income tax. But we cannot create different competitive conditions in Ukraine. When an enterprise that the Prime Minister, for example, opens and says, Fujikura, super, investment, into the country, immediately becomes uncompetitive in the interior compared to another enterprise that will be built in a private area that will be declared a park. So, friends, let's not look for easy ways. We have a decision with you. It's a tax on the capital. We have to accept it, and I see all the possible prospects, and the Ministry of Finance will soon, I think, support the deputies in this initiative, and put in place for the entire Ukrainian market the best income tax conditions for any sector. And then the market itself will determine that Ukraine needs to be supported and developed, not by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u24	Thank you. Victor Pinzenick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! Think of the passions that have been plucked out of this room by the offshore. What are we looking at? The Offshore Act, only in Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'll remind you what offshore is. Offshore is a place where taxes are not available or less. In Ukraine, the only way to obtain offshore status is by becoming an industrial park. I'd like to remind you, I'm not going to count the benefits, I'm going to remind you that VAT is not a business tax, it's a consumer tax. Please tell me, how can one compete with the VAT, the other doesn't pay? What kind of investment climate are you talking about when you can destroy any investor? Secondly, discrimination goes not only in the plane "one pays and the other doesn't pay", but discrimination goes into the plane "import and the national producer". Because of VAT collection technology, the national product can be broken down, the payment of VAT. It's about import. Tell me, please, how can the Ukrainian economy survive if essentially imported goods go through? Third moment. The official's unique dream is to give someone the right to tax exemption. Would you please tell me that a joint fight against corruption has the right of an official to exempt someone from payment of taxes? And the last. Such laws lead to huge budget losses. In 2005, when the government of Timoshenko canceled all the free zones and similar projects, the budget received twice as much as the customs. Think about it! Dear colleagues, I invite everyone to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u26	Yeah, we still have me. Society, I'll give another word to the head of the committee, we haven't had any factions yet. More People's Front, Curvy. Guilty, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u27	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, those remarks, the warnings that all of our colleagues from other factions, from Peter Prashenko, from Self-Help, we discussed it on the committee, and repeatedly, there were these remarks, these were these warnings. But quite faithfully, the head of the Tax Policy Committee and the head of the Committee of Affairs, our Committee of Industrial Politics, has noted that this is one of the few ways that we can actually invest in Ukraine. This is probably the only chance for today that the foreign investor may believe and realize that Ukraine is willing to make concessions to give new jobs in order to actually have more and pay taxes on the spot. I understand the complexity of this bill. But let's try and vote in the first reading today, and then we'll go to the second reading. Thank you. The People's Front faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u28	Colleagues, the factions all came out. Solovay. Saloon, please, one minute at a time. Then I'll give Rosenblatt too. One, not three, friends. Not three, just one. I'll tell you who. Please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u29	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I would understand the critics of this law if we didn't have factories that produce new products every month. Who's going to say in this room where we've had a factory built in Ukraine for over a thousand jobs in the last six months? Give me one example at least. Today, we are considering the Industrial Parks Act in the hall. We're trying to make the industrial parks competitive today, make Ukraine competitive with Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, what they did 10 years ago. And we're criticizing that today? People are good, but when you criticize them, then offer an alternative. You can't spend the rest of your life criticizing everything, offer an alternative. This is a real normal way. If you're worried about the past, I'm sorry, let's conclude, why did free economic zones turn into offshore and capital laundering?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u31	But let's not change the subject. This law is the only one, perhaps recently, that has stimulated production and stimulated Ukraine’s transition from the raw state to the country where the final product is produced. I urge everyone to support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u32	The factions haven't come forward yet. Excuse me, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, who can say that we should not support a domestic worker? Everyone's probably saying that we need to support it, because it's the basis for the development of the national economy. What is the structure of the national economy? If you analyze the external trade balance, it's raw materials, mostly raw materials, export raw materials. What does this bill propose? He offers to support the various industries of processing, that is, production of value added. It is appropriate to create the specified benefits and customs conditions. Can we? Yes, of course we can. Is this a way out or a decent way out of a crisis economy? Probably not. But because the current authorities cannot offer a long-awaited tax reform, it can be a step that we may use to support those areas that are strategic, export-oriented. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say a few words to you right now. If I give not one performance from factions, but several performances from factions, it means that I and the other factions have to give a few performances. That's what it means. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's what I'm talking about, Sergey, you be careful and don't talk, but listen. Now, I'm stressing again, which means that the discussion can take about half an hour, 40 minutes. If someone thinks that it will change the ratio of votes, he is wrong. It will only lead to fewer votes in the hall. My colleagues, I'll give you my word. One minute, Timoshenko. One minute, Rosenblatt. Rosenblatt, identify yourself by whom, I say. The disrepute, then the Levchenko, and then the vote. Three speeches and we go to the vote. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Julia Volodymyr, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! What is being done with this law is actually a glorious continuation of the infamous Janukovic case. He created such tax lagoons for himself, for his corruptionists, for his lobbyists, for himself. And that's where the main shadow profits of his regime and his environment were generated. What are you doing now? You create different conditions for business to work in one territory, where the list tells someone who has sugar; someone who has machine-building. Guess from the third time: Who's behind this? Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. He lacks business preferences. What are you doing? Stop, you're ruining the country's tax system, there can't be two tax systems in one territory, so I urge you to vote against it. And whoever took the money for it wants to see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u36	Thank you. Please, Rosenblatt, one minute. Then there's Lechchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! There are passions here, but I want to encourage everyone who wants to create a new power in Ukraine. Our power is new jobs, it's new businesses that will be taxes, but not just taxes that we're talking about on a schedule, but taxes that will be paid every day by the worker who works for this company. Today we all want our people to be able to pay both for the service of the service, and to have some income that will allow them to live in our country more or less. We're talking about the only thing that we're talking about today: let's make it possible to create new jobs, and these places will make it possible for our country to get out of that economic crisis. The most important thing for us today is to provide people with finance, and finance can come to us, not in the form of IMF loans, but in the form of investment. This view is an investment, and these investments will only come to new lands, to new jobs when we create industrial parks. I want to say for Donbas, and for Paulis, and for Delilah, where people today are unable to work, and if we really are going to adopt the law today in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u38	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u39	Economically independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u40	Thank you. So one minute, Lechchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u41	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District of Kiev. First of all, I'd like to go to all of our television audiences, the radio audiences, all the conscious people, to check for such a determination by the government of Azarov, which is still active in the creation of industrial parks. See what industrial parks were built there. In particular, under Vasil Hmelnicky, who stole 147 acres [147 ha] of land under the city of Kiev in the Bilican Forest. Yes, it was totally illegal to privatize by zero bracelets and zero copies and then verify the link between the reporter of the bill and Mr. Vasil Hmelnicki. This actually has the answer that before this bill in terms of corruption, yes. And now, essentially. Society, if you create such benefits, yes, such benefits need to be created. But the benefits are to be created for the whole industry, which is taking priority, and for the whole sector, no matter where it is in Ukraine, there's an appropriate tax benefit, then it's fair, then it's right and then it's not offshore. And if there's a patch of land, where there's better conditions, and there's worse conditions outside of the ground, please excuse me, it's just a circus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'd like the secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. Now, one minute, the drafter of the bill, and then we're going straight to making a decision. Victor Halasyuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that someone in this room is starting to worry that the country is going to start coming out of the International Monetary Fund's credit needle. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, would you please tell us that you did not speak in this room against energy service contracts that open the way for the country to become dependent? And you weren't the minister of finance on a number of occasions, and now you're out of Ukraine from $8 billion to $12 billion? These aren't the results of your policy, please? And in Macedonia, which is today the number one job creation, number one, when it's freed for 10 years not only from corporate taxes, but even from value added tax, doesn't it seem to us that we're at a crossroads right now: choosing between the support of our own producer, the involvement of investment and the normal economy, and between the raw breakup and the IMF's loans as an eternal yoke? Please choose!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u44	I'll give you a line. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u45	I'm not going to go down to the dirty accusations in this room because I don't care. First of all, I want to thank a large group of deputies who understand what this is about. There is only one supplement to this law: a list of enterprises that will be exempt from payment of taxes and even better the names of their owners. Friends, what kind of investment climate do you talk about when some people pay VAT and others don't pay? What are you gonna do, bring one investor for a pen? The country develops when there is a flow of investment. When you create a different investment field, the tax field, there is no investment. I urge all decent deputies to vote against this lobbying law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! The head of the committee is required. Please, head of the committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, you would have thought a little bit professionally about what the bill is proposing. What VAT are you talking about if it's the import of equipment, the cost of circulation, the credit costs that don't exist in Ukraine?Oh, my God! What VAT are you talking about?Oh, my God! This VAT, as a value added tax, can only occur after the company receives the product, which will be in a year or two. Now let's talk. We prescribed it. You're talking. All of them? I was just talking about it in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, you're looking at what Dusty is behind you! You'd be ashamed to mention him around! It's done, it's done! Work professionally at least a little! Listen to me! Indeed, a 60 - month schedule is needed for all who import equipment, and we will come to that. But now there is a clear definition of the narrow segment, and that will be decided by the local authorities. 12 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u48	Please, 30 seconds. And let's move on to. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there will be no more speeches. There will be a vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u49	12 industrial parks registered. And somewhere where they found a management company, a Dutch company, they work properly even within the framework law, because people do things. But you want to do nothing, but do not accept anything, for around someone's ears are sticking out. Yes, please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u50	Nina Petrovna, thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a heated discussion. I've given more performances, sometimes two more than a faction. But I think we've all been spoken out, and we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. I'd like to emphasise that it's only a matter of basis. Just for the basis. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Development of Domestic Production by encouraging investment in the real economy through industrial parks -- 2554a (Deputy) -- at the suggestion of a committee on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. On the basis of that, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:48:22]] For 227 [[Noise in the hall, applause]] Decision taken. Next draft of Laws 2555a and 2555a (Deputy). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:48:57]] For 177 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u51	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! I thank all the economic patriots of Ukraine, I thank all the deputies who understand that without a strong industry there can be no strong Ukraine, there can be no rise in social standards, because in order to distribute something, it has to be done first. There's going to be a budget, there's going to be an increase in wages and there's going to be protection of the country. Dear colleagues, the second bill, which is complementary to what we have just adopted with you, contains changes to the Customs Code, which removes duties for the equipment of a manufacturer for industrial parks, it's only about new investments, no existing enterprise can disguise itself under this park, so the state has no potential loss. When opponents say that they can, or may be, abuse. And what abuse, when there's a bare field where there's no jobs, there's no production, there's nothing, and this naked territory becomes a factory where people work, they earn money, they feed their families. In order for this to work, we also need to accept tax incentives for factories entering parks and exemptions for the import of manufacturing equipment, and I stress that we have predicted that raw materials are not subject to release, and that raw materials are not subject to duty exemption, although in countries like Macedonia, for example, raw materials are released. Why do they do this? Because they realize that the world is very big and very complex, and every dollar of investment has to be chosen, chewed up. So today, thanks to you, Ukraine will be a bit of a successful investment fighter for creating jobs. I'm asking you to support this second bill that we're going to give at least minimal incentives compared to those that exist in other countries today. It's an active tool for investing, creating jobs and decentralization in the country, and filling local budgets. Please be supportive. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u52	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u53	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Likewise to this bill that. on amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code, the members of the committee referred to it and decided to develop it in order to remove all ambiguities, ambiguities, to clear the codes so that only equipment could be imported into industrial parks and exclusively industrial park participants. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on the Development of Domestic Production by encouraging investment in the real economy through industrial parks. I am now hearing a huge number of Turkish investors who have already begun to enter Ukraine. And it was to them that the issue of the payment of import duties and VAT in the import of equipment into Ukraine was a problem. This is what no investor understands, where it takes the money to pay, without doing anything in Ukraine. This is a key issue with which we now have to find any compromise. And I'm sure we were trying not to let abuse happen at all, at all. If there are any observations, we are ready to accept them for second reading. Committee decision: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law of 2555a-d since 25.04.2016 to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. And I'm talking to all my colleagues. I'm going to give one faction at a time. Otherwise, we will not be able to work effectively. And I ask you not to be offended in advance. One of the factions, then the vote. Skuratowski, please. Turn on the microphone. Passes the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u55	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, after World War II, France, like most countries in Europe, was in ruins. French President Charles de Gaulle for the reconstruction of the country and for the restoration of the French industry, which was the backbone of France's economy, declared the slogan: "Modernization – or death!" During its 15 - year air - air policy, France has reached the level of development, industrial development, and development in Britain and the United States! Today, Ukraine, after 25 years of ownership of the oligarchs and their servants in all the governments that have turned Ukraine into raw materials, has become the gods of Ukrainians, when millions of people cannot make ends meet, today Ukraine is in ruins! So we have to declare a very simple slogan, a plan of action: "Modernization – or death!" Modernizing industry, modernizing agriculture, modernizing social life, modernizing relations among politicians. And most important for politicians, my dear colleagues, look into the eyes, don't be afraid, the main thing for politicians is not to lie! When you're in government, you do one thing. When faced with opposition, you do the opposite, forgetting what they did to the authorities. That's why I'm addressing everyone in this room! Modernization — Or Death! This is what awaits our country. And do not share what is not! When we talk about industrial parks, they're not there yet. And our job is to make them. So Ukrainians can have jobs! Not just to fill your own pockets! Share with the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u56	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich of the Opposition Block, please. He gave the word to the Queen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, what are we arguing about, and what are we doing today? Are we sharing unemployment, non-payments of wages, loans? What are we doing today? There is little chance today that we can at least give priority development territories the opportunity to at least allow tech parks today to demonstrate whether people are willing to invest money in our country under the most favourable conditions. This will be an answer to each of us, how to continue our country, to create the maximum welfare regime today, to adopt an integrated programme for Ukraine's reconstruction or to continue to hold on to what is not. Therefore, the Opposition Block advocates that today we adopt the most favourable treatment for our economy, the possible investment regime. All of us today have created the conditions for jobs, wages to be in our country, so that the terrible migration that today in our country among young people working at work will finally stop. We support this bill, but we insist that decisions should be taken in an integrated manner and that an integrated programme of economic recovery and social well-being should be adopted in Ukraine. The opposition bloc has developed such a programme, and we are ready to present it. I am addressing the Speaker, we need to establish an interfractional group today, where we can work out comprehensive solutions to economic recovery, job creation and the restoration of the social protection of our citizens. Today, perhaps you will finally make the first sound decision for the entire convening of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u58	Marezuk Oleg Romanovich conveys the word “Jurizia. ” Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u59	My colleagues, I want to thank you, thank you for supporting the law with a beautiful name. But the names are not enough, you have to look at the essence of the law, you have to look at the goal that its authors are pursuing. Unfortunately, the target is one. And the fact that the fragments of the Party of Regions voted with today's active coalition at one time only once confirms that the people who have robbed this country for 20 years want to get preferences in those areas that have already been stolen, to have a different tax regime than in all of Ukraine. And Mr. Pinzenic will tell you better than anyone what free economic zones have led to. So, my friends, when we're talking about tax exemptions, we're talking about "for," we're talking about "for" clearance from customs and equipment imported into Ukraine. But the release of all the subjects involved. It is not for the State to determine who it is releasing. Let's free up any entity that drives equipment and develops manufacturing industries, create jobs, and make no preference for oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u60	Thank you. I see the last name was mentioned, 1 minute, and then the closing statement by Neda Oleg Anatoliyovich, the closing statement, and we're going to the vote. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would obviously be standing here campaigning for the support of this bill on one condition if the exemption from duty were applicable to everyone. When a regime is introduced, what equipment is, and you have to be freed. It's not about that, it's about dividing by black and white. All will pay, but chosen, not by a government authority, but by an official, will determine who to release from payment of import duties. How can such a law be enacted? I do not even apply to the Constitution, where the equality of all the subjects of farming is determined. They should be in equal tax conditions, not in different circumstances. And the last. Dear colleagues, if anyone has the opportunity to purchase import goods or Ukrainian goods after the law has been passed, what will they buy? Of course it's imported. Why? Because there will be no VAT on imports under the law you have adopted. By your vote, you have introduced a subsidy regime for imports. And you're still claiming to protect the national manufacturer. But they will invest in Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u62	15 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u63	Please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u64	And here they're going to import the finished product. I'm doing it -- I know it's a decision-making room here -- but I've done my professional civic duty. And all those who support this position, please press the red button.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u65	I'm sorry, not all the factions have spoken yet. Okay, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland hasn't made a statement yet. And then it's from "Peter Prashenko's Block" Neda Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u66	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I've heard a lot of things from previous speakers about how our country suffered for 25 years because we didn't have a tax regime that Turkey, Macedonia or other countries had. I want to remind you, out of these 25 years, there's been a law on tax preferences, customs for joint ventures. Call me ten joint ventures that would give and create jobs that would give and create real economic foundations for the country. For eight years, the law on the so - called free economic zones was in force. Do you want me to call these companies? Kharkiv Bison, loss of the budget is $5 billion. Haven't you had enough? You want to experiment again? Make the only mode for everyone, the only mode of customs taxation, customs imports, then it'll be the only correct system. So you're going to create an annual mode of economic governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u67	Thank you. Aren't you finished? Mr. Sergei, aren't you finished? So turn to me, I can't hear you. 30 seconds, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u68	which will actually win the country's final economy and allow it to actually create preferences exclusively for its firms and companies. So our faction will not vote in favour of this decision, and this decision is final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Neda Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, dear friends, please tell me, what business, foreign or local investor is now ready to invest in Donbass? What kind of business is willing to invest its money in enterprises that are in their 40s, there are 10, 30 kilometers from the separation zone? The only chance I'm seeing right now is to create industrial parks. This issue has been discussed with many, many business circles in the Donetsk region, in the Luhansk region, the only opportunity to attract investment in Donbass is the only opportunity to create jobs for displaced persons. Many businessmen have set up businesses in the territory occupied by them — such as bread factories, milk factories, meatcombinates — they have stayed there, they have left now, they can work, we have to, and we have to give them the opportunity to work. These are new places for the movers, new places for Donbass, this is Donbass' new face, I'm asking everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'll tell you one simple thing, according to the Rules, when a reduced procedure goes, there's two "for, two" "against," where the factions are recorded. Those factions that didn't fall, I'm adding to them as their leader, when I'm giving them a few representing from one faction, and that's where the other factions require it. Colleagues, at the moment, we didn't just have the People's Front. I propose we give the last of the People's Front and move on to the vote, colleague. There is no summary of the closing word, Mr. Victor, no. He doesn't have a closing word. Please, Igor Gus, and let's proceed to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u72	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. I want to say to Mr. Sergei Soboljevo, I represent District 19 where the city of Novovolinsk is where the state shut down seven mines and once created a free economic zone. I call you the enterprises that were created when the free economic zone worked -- that's Cronospan, where thousands of representations work today. It's BRV, and it's Polish investment, and it's about 25 other companies that work so far. And my voters, I invite you to Novovolinsk, ask you to rescind Julia Timoshenko's decision in 2005 and return to the Novovolin Zone of Priority Development. Why? Because now Mr. Nasalik is closing down the last mines and this is the city where the highest level of drug abuse, crime, AIDS in Western Ukraine. The free economic zone in the city of Novovolinsk worked for my district, no one stole anything, did not do anything, come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! I am. Dear colleagues, I remind you of another rule of the Rules when names are mentioned, I am obliged to give my word for repulsion. Everyone has a lot of experience, and we've been working in the hall for a long time, and that's the rule that's predicted. I very much ask my colleagues to understand this when they speak. For the replica, Julia Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! I just want to take off my emotions right now, and just so you can think about things logically. Please tell me if there are two companies in one country that produce the same product, such as buses, (don't think anything wrong), but one bus is taxed, and the other bus is practically out of taxes. Tell me, are they going to be competitors on the outside or in the internal market? And by giving preferences to individual companies in these tax lagoons in offshore areas, you kill all the other producers who don't have benefits because they won't be competitors. You'll give life to a dozen businesses that will pay bribes to get benefits, and you'll destroy hundreds of thousands of businesses that won't be competitive either outside or inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u75	I can give you the time of Soboljev, one minute. Maybe? Please turn on another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u76	Please don't do this. This is a mega-corruption scheme that will determine what kind of enterprise will get the benefits. This person is going to be a billionaire because he's going to open up these possibilities. And I'm not surprised that some of the Grantoids are clapping their hands for these bills because they're counting on some powerful international corporations to come into these conditions. Dear friends, please don't kill your own country. And canceling customs duties and any taxes on imported import equipment is necessary for everyone, but for equipment that is not produced in Ukraine, so as not to destroy its own manufacturers. Don't make any mistakes, I beg of you! Vote against this law! And "against," don't hold back, take your position!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Discussion's over, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Development of Domestic Production by encouraging investment in the real economy through industrial parks. The committee's proposal is 2555 a (deputy) on a basis, colleagues, just on a basis. All risks can be eliminated between the first and the second readings. Who supports 2555a (deputy) as a basis, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:10:00]] For 219 219, yes. I'll put it back once, colleagues. I'll put it back once. There'll be voices. We'll be back. We won't, let's move on to the second sentence: the committee for rereading. So please invite the deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote on the basis of Bill 2555a (Deputy). Anyone who supports the proposal to return to voting as a basis, please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[17:10:49]] For 226 226. We're back. Now I'm voting on the basis of bill 2555a (deputy) as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Based on 2555a (Deputy). Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:11:23]] For 222 222, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Irina Heratchenko card didn't work. Colleagues, the card didn't work out here in the lobby. I'll put it back again, colleagues. Who supports the return of 2555a (deputy), please vote. Please, one more vote. [[17:12:11]] For 230 We're back. Who supports the 2555a (deputy) base, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. 2555a (Deputy) Please vote. [[17:12:34]] For 231 Decision taken. That's just the basis. Just as a basis for acceptance. Fellows, I would like to remind you that before considering these two issues, Mr. Ribak, Mr. Petrovich has asked to postpone two drafts of his bill, which is the last in the section on "environmental policy" (second reading). Then the whole room gave us the good news that we would consider it in two questions. Now I'm putting it on the table. 3603 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated approaches to water resources management based on the pool principle. So, colleagues, let's move on to his consideration, and I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u78	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated approaches to water resources management, based on the pool principle of registration number 3603. The aim of the bill is to improve Ukraine's legislation with a view to introducing integrated approaches to water resources management and adapting water legislation to European Union legislation. The bill included 114 proposals by national deputies, 103 of which were accepted, including partially and editorially, and 21 were rejected. In addition to the second reading, the bill is complemented by provisions on the establishment of pool councils to ensure the rational use of protection of the reproduction of water resources, taking into account the interests of all stakeholders; clarifying the powers of central executives, local self-government authorities; clarifying the format in the management plan for river basins to be developed in accordance with European Union legislation; and developing plans for the management of flood risks, threat maps and flood risks, and the assessment of flood risks. Ukraine’s Water Code is supplemented by new articles that allow the assessment of the ecological and chemical status of aquatic objects according to the classification adopted in the European Union in accordance with the Framework Directive. Terminology is improved and so on. The committee agreed with the proposals of a number of Ukrainian national deputies for the preservation in the current edition of article 5 of the Water Code, entitled "Division of water objects of national and local importance", which was proposed to be repealed. Preservation of the right of local self-governance authorities to initiate the placement of water objects into the natural-generated funds. The preservation of a part of the 79 - article classification of water objects on large, medium, and small rivers depends on the size of coastal protection strips. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has enacted a bill, the truth with the comments that we are about to discuss, and the committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of integrated water resources in accordance with the pool principle under registration number 3603 as a result of the consideration to be adopted as a whole in the second reading as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the right is not a large number. I'm asking you to configure the right-wing authors. There's a minister present. Please remain in the rostrum. And we're going to the right. Five o'clock, Ednak. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 11th, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. 24th, Ednak. Don't insist. 33rd, Neda. Don't insist. 34th, Chumak. Don't insist. 35th, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. 40th, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. 45th, Ednak. Don't insist. 50th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u80	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In this bill, which, in general, before the second reading, I think has been well worked out and many negatives have been erased, but I think there's only one very huge negative left. The point here is that it is proposed to make changes that allow special water use for all water objects will be issued by the district government and the Kyiv City State Administration, rather than by appropriate authorities, namely, local self - government. Well, it's absolutely absurd, in my opinion, especially given that it's supposed to be, for two years now they've been telling everyone about so-called decentralization, and here you're proposing to take the authority of the really chosen organs and hand over the authority assigned to them from above. Therefore, I propose that this innovation be excluded so that the appropriate powers are left to the chosen bodies and that the relevant councils issue appropriate permits, not to the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u81	Thank you. Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to shed light on this position. The point is that today you and I were looking at Bill 3323 in the first reading, in which we were discussing who should essentially issue special-use permits. And we've decided with you that it's not for the obvious, it's not for the best. These are the territorial authorities, the territorial bodies of the central executive body, which ensure the implementation of State policy in the field of water conservation, that is, the State Department. The territorial authorities will be created by the pool principle, i.e. the Dniester-Prutsk basin management and so on, and they'll issue it directly. The councils can't issue nadrama licenses in this case, as this is essentially the present moment, well, they've never issued a council. It's been published in the past. Today he publishes a minis. Ecology, territorial management, more loyally, is a unit of government that deals with environmental policy. And it's 33 and 23 that's the right thing to do. In order to allow them to issue such permits according to the pool principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u83	Please finish 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u84	To issue these permits to the territorial authorities of the State Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u85	Thank you. Do they insist on voting, Mrs. Yuri? I'm voting on Amendment No. 50 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:19:44]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 53rd, Neda. Don't insist. 58th, Chumak. Don't insist. 61st, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. 67th, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. I urge everyone to enter the hall. 71st, Ednak. Don't insist. 83rd, Ednak. Don't insist. 94th, Ednak. Don't insist. 105th, Ednak. Don't insist. 106th, Ednak. Don't insist. 111th, Ednak. Don't insist. And 113th, Ednak. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing this law. In fact, he doesn't raise any objections. This is the last bill from our environmental policy bloc. Colleagues, I very much ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I very much ask to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please, 30 seconds. Let's go into the hall. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of integrated approaches to the management of water resources under the pool principle (No.3603), second reading and generally, colleagues. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:22:22]] For 217 217, colleagues. I can see we didn't make it. My colleagues, not all of them, not all of them came into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, I'll put you back on now. I'm proposing a return to 3603: that some Ukrainian legislation be amended to introduce integrated approaches to the management of water resources according to the pool principle. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the hearing, please vote. Please, colleagues, we vote for the return. Please vote. [[17:23:35]] For 235 235 for. The solution. We're back. And now I'm going to adopt the second reading and the whole draft of Law 3603. Please vote, please support. Please vote 3603. [[17:24:04]] For 234 234 for. The law is passed. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. And we're going back to the chapter of industrial politics. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of new investment opportunities, guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of subjects of entrepreneurial activity in order to carry out large-scale energy-generating activities (number 4549). And I propose his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:24:57]] For 177 177 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Rybčin Alexi Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u86	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. Colleagues, a year ago, you and I passed the ESCO bill. And over the year, a lot of people, businesses, investors believed in this bill and invested their money in energy engineering. What is ESCO or energy service in a common language? It's a mechanism that allows you to repair state or municipal, well, I don't know, kindergartens, hospitals, schools without the government budget. At present, there is a problem that buildings that use energy in Ukraine twice or three times use it more than in Europe. And the reason for that is the old windows, the bad thermal insulation, the old roofs. So our budget institutions are spending a lot of taxpayers' money to keep them. The ESCO mechanism allows investors to invest at their own expense in the warming of buildings and then to have a delta of savings paid before and after warming. But in August, the law stopped because it was bound by a bill on public procurement, ProZorro, and it just stalled. That is why we suggest tying the energy service under the purchase of ProZorro to further increase the transparency of this mechanism. Moreover, our annual experience in exploitation has given us an opportunity to improve these mechanisms so that investors can raise funds. And I can say that the bill has been developed in close cooperation with local self-government, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the public organizations, the RDA, and very many people have been involved, and if this bill goes through, I very much ask him to support it, and we invite him to a second reading on the basis of Derženergo efficiencies, we have working groups working on each amendment. Colleagues, please support, this really is the mechanism that runs energy efficient purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u87	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, dear colleagues, I present to you the bill of 4549. An extremely important project for Ukraine's energy savings. You and I have already passed the Basic Law on Energy Services Contracts, remember how much discussion there was, remember, I thank all the colleagues and the budget committee that supported it, and the Supreme Council Hall, today, the basic law has been passed. Now, if the ESCO mechanism were to work in Ukraine, at the expense of a private investor, it would be possible to conduct thermomodernization of schools, hospitals, kindergartens, universities, and share part of the profits made in the economy with an investor without any amount of government investment. We need to adopt this bill 4549, which will allow public procurement of energy services through the ProZorro system. So essentially this bill is technical and we're opening up through this road to massive energy-generating. And the effect, I'll tell you what that's going to be, is that in Ukraine today, there are almost 100,000 budget institutions that are twice as expensive to burn as in Europe. Two or three times, just think about it! So the economy's potential for energy efficiency is between 40 and 70 percent. This country will give the economy up to 700 million cubic metres of gas per year -- that's the solution, not the subsidy, that's it! Energy Modernization! So our mission with you, as parliamentarians, to create such conditions, to adopt laws that will allow this energy to be made possible, will open the door for a private investor in this area. Remember what the discussions were, said that long - term budget commitments could not be made. In front of the IMF, you can see, and in front of a private investor who doesn't have a penny of the state, you can't shut down schools. Thank God, we've broken this, and today we have to accept and support energy-generating in the country. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship suggests that the first reading should be based on shorter review periods.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. Alexander Sugonjako, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u91	Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! I've already spoken about this law, it's developing those that are already in the basic law. What are we talking about? This is the possibility of making a commitment when it is not entitled to do so, since the right to a budget is created when the approved budget is approved. And the budget is approved for a year, this is the norm of the Constitution, this is not the norm of the law. The Constitution needs to be amended so that commitments can be made for 15 years. Because this law proposes to increase the commitment period from 10 to 15, but I want to use another important point. Parliament's first reading of the law on medicine is the first step towards a new philosophy of financing the sector, and I hope that we will eventually move on to the whole budget area. Today we finance institutions, there's pay, there's utility fees, and so on. The Ministry of Health first starts work on the transition to finance services, to pay for services when you pay for services, there is no electricity, there is no heating. When you buy bread in a store, you don't pay the seller separately, you don't pay separately for electricity, you pay the final product. That's how the education funding system has to go. Please tell me, what are you going to do with your energy service contracts? When there's no housing service line in the budget line. So when we adopt one law, we need to keep in mind that it has to correspond with another, and this logic is not in line with the philosophy of the transition to budgetary financing because of the principle of payment of end services.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u93	Thank you. Please, Natalia Katser-Buchovska, I understand it will come from the place. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! This Law No. 4549 on improving the mechanism of energy service contracts is essentially called upon to make investment in this type of service easier. For over a year now, we have adopted the ESCO Act, but no less, we don't actually see a very large investment involvement in this area. Why? Because there were some technical differences and this data. a specific draft law is called upon to correct them. In particular, this is the case with regard to the introduction of procurement procedures through a transparent system, as well as other technical backlogs. Why is it important? Because, in principle, energy efficiency is one of the priorities of our state policy and one of the fundamentals. the basic guarantee of energy independence. Ukraine consumes too much energy and we have to move forward with this ESCO mechanism that actually works in every country of the world. There's a very good, successful example of Poland, where energy service contracts actually modernized the social sphere, based on investment, despite any obstacles. So the People's Front is going to support this bill, and I'm asking everyone to support it and vote for it, because it's going to make it possible to invest more in energy service contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u95	The discussion was over. Dear colleagues, Mr. Dombrowski, the head of the Energy Committee, asks. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u96	Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. Please, Mr. Dombrowski. Turn on Dombrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, literally three short positions. First. I would like to emphasize once again that when we adopted these bills we had a very hot and professional discussion a few months ago. And the Supreme Council will vote on these bills. The number two and the thesis two. That in the budget area today we have about 100,000 budget institutions that need energy modernisation. The amount needed to do so amounts to about 4 billion dollars today. The budget does not have the capacity to raise these funds. That's why we need energy service contracts. And the third, and the main thing is in terms of budget planning. Yeah, we have a one-year budget, but that's the problem. Unfortunately, we must have. Fortunately, we have to have three-year, five-year planning not only of the state budget, but also of economic policy in the country in general, to understand what the country will do and how the economy will live in 3-5 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u98	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u99	So I ask you to support and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u100	I'm sorry, the Radical Party hasn't spoken yet. I'm sorry. Please, Victor Halasyuk. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, a very simple situation, said Mr. Dombrowski, there are no funds in the budget, and today schools, hospitals, universities are heating up the air. We're paying for Putin's money. How can we fix the situation? Involve a private investor. How Can I Get involved? To guarantee that from the economy that's going to be created from its investments, it's going to get a piece over a few years. This is a perfectly correct market liberal norm. In order for this to work, it needs to work transparently through the public procurement system that you and I have adopted. So we need to support this bill, and we're creating, first of all, a multibillion-dollar investment market. Secondly, demand is primarily for domestic manufacturers for energy equipment on windows, on anything to live and Ukrainian production, and so that we get warming and reducing the energy consumption of kindergartens, schools, hospitals, universities, other institutions. A colossal opportunity for Ukraine. You and I are obliged to create new investment opportunities and energy-generating. I ask the Radical Party faction to support this strategic bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of New Investment Opportunities, Guaranteeing the Rights and Legal Interests of Business Subjects for Large-Scale Energy Modernization (No.4549) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis. Colleagues, just on the ground. Who supports the proposal to support this bill, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:37:28]] For 236 Decision taken. Alexei Mikhailovich, welcome to the author, the bill, and welcome to the committee. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. Colleagues, I ask you to work more intensively if possible. We have a number of bills that are important, and we only have 25 minutes left. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Reducing the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market (No. 3873). I propose his consideration of the reduced procedure, and I ask your support. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[17:38:20]] For-173 Decision taken. Welcome to the report by Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich. Please, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, I present to you Bill 3873, which aims to ensure the unbreakable supply of raw materials to metallurgical enterprises. You and I have already taken a strategic state-level step through which we have increased the export duty from 10 euros to 30 euros, this law has already entered into force, this is essentially the second part of the package, to completely remove the imported bribe to metal scrap. Which may be easier than realizing that a local manufacturer needs to supply raw materials in a seamless way and make them as cheap as possible. So that's what this bill is all about. Ukrainian metallurgy is 25 percent of our industry. The Ukrainian mining metallurgical complex, that's a quarter of our exports, it's got the stability of the bracelet today, it's got at least some price stability on it today. If we lose profits there, the economy goes down, the welfare of the citizens goes down. In order not to assume this, in order to ensure more or less normal working conditions for metallurgy, we are obliged to adopt this bill. And I'm stressing that it's essentially just anti-crisis measures. Unfortunately, we're just starting to move on to strategy. I want to urge you to vote, to support this bill as a basis. In addition, I would like to point out that this is not an exclusive list of issues. Because today the Ukrainian metallurgy, the cement industry, is turning to Ukrainian agriculture, which is not enough cars to transport their goods, that today there is no diesel in Ukrazalznice, that is a huge problem, because markets are where the goods are, the demand is, is, is today, because of the inefficiency of the Ukrazlaznica, the reduction of 10 percent is essentially the currency output, it is absolutely unacceptable. So I'm going to ask you to support me on a base, take down the imported metal scrapbook for the Ukrainian metallurgy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u104	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Nina Petrovna, is invited to the report. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u105	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The reason and substance of the bill are indicated by the reporter. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, makes a comment on the project and stresses, inter alia, the need to obtain the expert opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers on it. The Minister's office supports the bill, given the fact that taxes and congregations cannot change during the budget year, taking into account the notice regarding the expiration date of the draft law. The committee got the number of budget losses. The possible budget losses are 3 million dollars. That is why, when the decision was taken, the committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a law as a whole. In the event of the adoption of this draft law, I request that the Main Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority and the Protocol Department, prepare it for signature, taking into account the necessary technical legal rights. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to discuss? None. Colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on the Reduction of the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market with the aim of providing first-hand protection industry needs and rebuilding infrastructure objects at the proposal of the committee, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:42:35.]] For 251 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee. Let's move on to the next draft of Law 4541. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on reducing barriers to foreign investment (4541). Colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:43:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u107	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs! Your consideration is suggested by a bill aimed at making the lives of those who also work in Ukraine a little easier, creating jobs, bringing their foreign investments here, and many complain that they do not have the right conditions to do their work. I'm not taking up time. The bill is completely non-conflict. It's compromiseable. In my opinion, according to my information, all the factions of this room are supported. The only thing I'd like to say is that we're going to take the whole block of this bill in the second reading, which is about cancelling public investment, because it was adopted and already signed by the President of Ukraine. And I want to give you a brief list of the innovations in this bill. This is the introduction of a number of new categories of foreigners who are entitled to a more sophisticated process of obtaining work permits and a temporary certificate. This is a legal definition of the grounds for refusal and continuation of the permit. Definition of the deadline for the authorisation to apply the work of foreigners. Setting the differential and the expiration scale. Setting the size of the administrative assembly to form a permit and so on and so forth. For example, even today we are not covered by legislation. Permission is granted to a particular foreigner for a specific position. And when, for example, someone goes on vacation, a foreigner does not have the right to hold a temporary position of another person. So, your honors, any speculation or accusation that this will open up Pandora's box, and we'll have Turks, Vietnamese and all that, they won't come to us! They'll go to Germany, they'll go to Britain, where they don't have to work, where they have normal social packages and they can get money without it. So the big request to support this bill for second reading is that we take all the notes into account, because this is the first time we're trying at the legislative level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to the committee head, and I am indeed asking you to speak in a concise manner, we have a very limited time. Please, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u109	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supports the adoption of this bill on the basis that it has a positive anti-corruption conclusion, and the GNEU recommends it for work, but the committee is ready to take it to its platform and work. I thank Sergey Ivanovich for his initiative. It's very nice that there are people in different factions who care about economic development. And we need to take down regulatory, artificial and administrative barriers in order to make Ukraine not only an exporter of finished products, but also an importer of talented personnel, so that we can increase the level of well-being so that both Poles and Turks and Slovaks can come and work for us in Ukraine. Please support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u110	Thank you, colleagues. Is there a desire to speak? Colleagues, there's one who wants one, one is the Head, right? And Chicken. Two performances. Okay, if there's one, there'll be two in favour, two in opposite, colleagues. There's a desire to talk, let's talk. Please record: two for, two against. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u111	Please, the word Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, the law is very important because it sends an important signal to investors, particularly investors, who usually involve highly qualified foreign workers to work for their companies. Today, this procedure is too regulated because it actually takes between two months and a year to get temporary residence permits and work permits. Moreover, people have to go around dozens of offices, and today the list of documents is made up of about 25 different aids in various institutions. Therefore, the bill proposes a series of measures that make it much easier to obtain such a permit, and I ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u113	Barna's handing over to the Chicken? Please, Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u114	Honorable colleagues are certainly required to vote in favour of the bill today, since it is indeed aimed at deregulation of entrepreneurial activities. But for the sake of objectivity, let me put it very briefly and very simply, this bill is really overloaded. By the way, recently this summer we passed Law 2763 with you, and already by this law we cancelled the obligation to register foreign investment, that's the first. But I am now officially and publicly addressing the authors of this bill. Friends, don't open the way for foreign workers in Ukraine, don't forget that we also have unemployed people in Ukraine who need employment and who can do no worse than Poles, Turks, Japanese, like any other expert, put roads, fix our streets and do a lot of other useful things. I propose, at the level of the law, finally before second reading, that we offer some safeguards to ensure that our Ukrainian natives, Ukrainian workers, are employed in investment projects that will be implemented on the territory of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u115	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u116	The Institute for the National Registration of Land Investments has really revived itself -- it's a rudimentary of the Soviet system, and we need to get rid of it. We need to create favourable conditions for foreign investment, because the conditions are necessary, especially for the restoration of Donbas, which is destroyed. In addition, we need to work on how the previous reporter said about the procedure for involving foreign workers. Because of the fact that active power is the highest level of unemployment in the country’s entire independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u117	Thank you. Bennady, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u118	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support it, so we suggest a vote and don't waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u119	Thank you, colleagues. Now, from the non-fractional head, one minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process, please. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u120	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Even though this bill, we think, is quite controversial, because the full opening of the gateways to allow foreigners to work in Ukraine will lead to another increase in social tension in our country. Because that is how Ukrainians are now suffering from total unemployment, a record in the history of our nation, and they are leaving the country in a mass way in search of work. And here we're getting those foreign companies that came in here are going to work, they're just going to invite their citizens from their countries who are going to work in Ukraine. I mean, even more by creating tension, even more by pushing our Ukrainians out of our country. Such an impression is that there is a program of total substitution of the change in the indigenous population and, accordingly, immigrants from other countries will be brought here, and they will not. What guarantee is that not only do so-called investors, which you call them, but citizens from low-security countries, come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u121	Please. Colleagues, we're done here. Let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Please, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on reducing barriers to foreign investment (number 4541) on the basis of a committee proposal. Colleagues who support the proposal on the basis of 4541, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:52:27]] For 235 Decision taken. Congratulations to the author. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. We go to the next bill, 5105, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act. And I'd like you to support the reduced procedure. Please vote 5105 on the shortened procedure. [[17:53:01]] For-200 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u122	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting the previous bill. The bill is also aimed at improving investment climate and simplifying and, in some cases, improving registration procedures, approving investment projects, and public investment projects. We're this bill, which, by the way, is actually done by the Cabinet of Ministers, is fully supported by the Ministry of Economic Development, we're taking the so-called state registration procedure and we're transferring it into the process of monitoring those investment projects that have been agreed upon and under which state guarantees are provided, or they're co-financed by the state budget. This is actually a requirement of the World Bank when we voted with you on fundamental changes to the Budget Code, which envision the improvement of the system of state investment in Ukraine. So, colleagues, please support this bill, it's purely technical. And, if possible, also in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u123	Colleagues! May I have your report, please? Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please, from the committee. The headpiece will speak, the report will be co-reported – then we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u124	Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, support this bill. It clearly distinguishes government support and public investment. Support the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u125	Thank you. Colleagues, there is general support for the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act (5105) as a basis only. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Just on the ground. Please. Please be supportive. [[17:54:52]] For 238. Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. And the next bill. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the liberalisation of cash accounts (No.4117). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:55:22]] For 203 Decision taken. Please come to the report. Krishin Oleg Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u126	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The above-mentioned bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on the application of accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services, with the aim of creating the conditions for maximum simplification and costing the use of RROs, using the technological capabilities available today, namely: the existing list includes a new species of RRO in a new composite exercise that operates on the principles and technologies already in place by existing legislation. The main important and positive objectives and objectives of the proposed bill are, first of all, a substantial reduction in the cost of purchasing and servicing RROs for enterprises that are already obliged to use RROs. Secondly, avoid the actual backlog of technology used to fiscalize time requirements, smartphones, tablets with one of the world's best data protection technologies using NSM security modules. Thirdly, allow for the maximum possible involvement of commercial structures for the implementation and maintenance of RCC components in such a way that competition ensures the proper prices and quality of services in the market for sales and service of RROs. Fourthly, it integrates the fiscal sphere with other tools and components of the electronic government. It is very important that the introduction of such modern technologies and the reduction of the cost of enterprises for the purchase and maintenance of cashiers will have a positive impact on the final fragmented cost of goods. Please consider the bill on the profile committee and it is recommended that it be accepted as a basis. In view of the above, and in view of the positive conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption, please support draft registration number 4117 on the basis of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u127	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Nina Petrovna, is invited to the report. Please be as brief as possible, Nina Petrovna, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The author has now presented the substance of the bill. As a result of the committee's consideration, indeed the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law to be adopted on a basis. The essence of the bill has already been told. Indeed, this revolutionary new approach, in parallel with the registers of accounting transactions, is being proposed to complement such a distributed computer-cassette system that will ensure that all accounting operators and small business entities can be used, and this will not be too expensive, it will reduce the cost of businesses for these operations. Please support the committee's decision on the basis. For the second reading, we will work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, are they willing to discuss it? Yes. Colleagues — Who Is the Desire? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who Is the Desire? I don't see any colleagues wanting to speak. So I'm moving on to making a decision, colleagues. I'm voting on the draft Amendment Act. Andrew, I asked if they were desirable or not. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the liberalisation of cash accounts (No.4117), a colleague, on a basis, only on a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:59:37]] For 267 Decision taken. Fellows, I'm addressing now that I'm asking if there's one speaker and there isn't, then I'm betting on a vote when there's no one, colleagues. And so it was. Colleagues, we've got the last one. Look, I'm continuing my session for 15 minutes. I want to tell you two things: we have the last law in the industrial policy bloc, and there are two references that have already been adopted, after the illegal deprivation of freedom of Ukrainian journalists Roman Suschenk and Mikaly Semina and the ban on Majlis. 15 minutes and we have what's still in order, colleagues. I'm asking you for advice on how we should be? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I think there's a point to moving on to the decisions of the Supreme Council. Is there any support for that? Colleagues, so if we have a general position that everyone stays in the room, we can go through all the positions and figure out where they are. So I'm looking at 3872 first, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, and then I'm going to ask everyone to stay for two. Anyone who supports the review of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, 3872, summary procedure. [[18:01:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. The bill cancels the land tax index to inflation for two years. What's the situation today? Last year, 43 percent inflation, which means that more than 43 percent of the land tax is paid this year. It's nonsense, it's just a shame, it's not an assumption, we have to fix the situation in the interests of the Ukrainian industry and the Ukrainian agrarians. I ask you to accept it on the first reading as a basis and as a whole of this bill and, given that it has long been agreed upon by the profile committee, to accept it on the 16th, the 17th, the 18th, because the 16th is gone, we have a few months here with you, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u131	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u132	Dear National Deputies! The bill was considered at our committee meeting during the discussion, members of the committee generally supported the proposed changes and noted that their adoption would reduce the fiscal burden on operators to minimize the increase in the cost of production, which would in turn save jobs. But in doing so, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council concluded a number of substantive observations and pointed out that the authors did not take into account the requirements of article 103 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the State's provision of tax benefits that reduce the income of local budgets should be accompanied by an additional grant from the State budget to local budgets to compensate for the corresponding losses of local budgets. It is also noted that the application of the new order of determination of the consumer price index used to determine the ratio of the index of the regulatory and monetary valuation of agricultural land, the land of populated areas and other land of non-agricultural destination not only in 2016, but also in 2015 does not comply with the requirements of part one of article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support the adoption of the bill because it will result in the loss of local budgets, which will limit the possibility of local governments. In the light of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine to suspend the indexation of the land standard. What's more, last night at a meeting held by Mr. Groissman, you heard that the Cabinet of Ministers is also planning to take a different approach to the land valuation index. So I'm going to suggest that we take this as a basis and think about going to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u133	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. There are those who would like to speak. Please hold the recording. There were, raised hands wishing to speak to colleagues. I'm sorry, if they're willing, they have to speak. The previous law was not desirable, there is now. Yemen, please, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u134	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I think the question is quite clear. Let's go to the vote. The People's Front faction supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u135	Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u136	Please pass on the word to Andrey Zhurziya.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u137	My colleagues, first of all, in the best traditions, this bill came out at night and the faction, sorry, didn't consider it and can't vote on it. Second, friends cannot say with one hand that we are behind the support of the village, the rural population, and another hand to deprive them of their resources. You're destroying it. These are the rural budgets that everyone has agreed to, and the agrarians in this room, to pay for the preservation of the fixed single income tax for the fourth group, for the agrarians. So do not deprive the villagers of the resources and local budgets of the resources, let them live.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u138	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich is passing on to Pinzenik. Please pass it on to Victor Pinzenic. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u139	Dear head! I have my first call to you, let's not turn Parliament into a market. If we adopt laws, at least they should be discussed, even if it is a reduced procedure. If the task is to push the buttons, invite the first-graders here, they will succeed instead of the national deputies of Ukraine. And now essentially the law, because it has something to do with my first lineup. Please tell me, from an easy hand, I don't know whether to enact or not to enact this law? But it has a direct bearing on the budget. Have we heard the government's position? Have we heard the position of the Ministry of Finance? Do we know how much it costs? How can laws be passed without calculation, without discussion, without discussion? What have we turned the Supreme Council of Ukraine into?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u140	Thank you. Please, Novak Natalia Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u141	I wanted to give the word to Pinzenic, so please cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-04-m1.u142	Thank you, colleagues. So we've had a discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. And I want to emphasize to you, colleagues, when I don't want to speak, I can't force anyone. Every time there's an accent, every time there's a two-for-two, two-again. Therefore, be more careful with warnings. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft Law 3872 on the basis of a committee proposal. Then I'm going to set up a shorter procedure for the second reading. So 3872 is the base. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:08:17]] For 175 175 for. Colleagues, I'll make the following suggestion: return to the committee for further work. Can we support that? Can we do that? Colleagues, I'm consistently making those proposals that are provided for in the Rules. We have a second suggestion to return to the committee for work. Who supports this proposal: 3872 on the committee for further work, please vote. Please vote. Support us, colleagues, so we can move on to the next statement. Please be supportive. To be processed by Committee 3872. Please vote. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[18:09:08]] For a hundred and The final proposal is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Maybe you can support her, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. I'll take the next one. Return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, and please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:09:41]] For 186 186 for. The decision is not made. The bill is rejected, colleagues. The bill is rejected. My colleagues, I remind you, when we came in, we said two statements. Guys, don't break up. The ban on Majlis and the claim of illegal deprivation of liberty of Ukrainian journalists. We agreed for five minutes to hear these questions. I beg you, these are important statements by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal to put in order of the day and now consider Decrees 5220 and 5215. They're in the hall, please vote. Please be supportive. 5220 and 5215. Please vote for the support to be put to the hearing in the Chamber now to include in the agenda. Vote please, colleagues. [[18:10:45]] For 208 Colleagues, I'm not taking any chances. Tomorrow these two statements will stand in the order of the day, so that colleagues who have not come to know each other can get acquainted with these statements. We're going to have a tough emotional and stressful day, colleagues. But we've almost completely gone through the order of the day. I thank everyone for their fruitful work. I welcome both the committees that today formed a thematic day. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're moving on to resume our work. Thank you, colleagues, and good-bye.
