ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, everyone in the room, can we move on to registration? Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. And please register with your colleagues. [[10:10:43]] There were 338 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! In two words, I want to remind you of the logic of today. The first question is that we agree to bring the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich. Then we have a block of questions related to the approval of the national budget of Ukraine (first reading). Unfortunately, not all of those questions were able to be considered on Tuesday, and so the block of issues has moved on to today, and only then will we be able to move on to the transport block. And if we don't get to the agrarian cluster, we've talked to the committee head about moving them to the next plenary day. Unfortunately, today's additional budget issues are moving our plan, but we can't put aside the questions that relate to budgeting. So, colleagues, we move on to the first question of the agenda: agreeing to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich. In accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Supreme Council of Ukraine consents to the criminalization of the national MP. On November 4th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the application of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 16 November, with the participation of the Attorney-General, considered the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of the national deputy, Wadim Novinski. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to contact the Attorney-General for additional materials and explanations regarding his submission. Relevant additional materials came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee reviewed the submission of consent to criminal liability, taking into account the additional justification for the submission of the Attorney General. The committee's conclusion is given to you, I won't read it, it is, everyone. On your hands, you can get to know him. I would also like to inform you that the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, is present at our meeting. Welcome, Yuri Vitaliovich. [[Applause]] The procedure for dealing with the matter is clearly prescribed by law; we cannot violate it. And according to this procedure, the first word is given to the Attorney General. A total of 15 minutes: 5 minutes – for the performance and 10 minutes – for the questions and answers. Yeah? 15 minutes is given the opportunity to speak and answer questions to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Prosecutor of the Second Department of Procedural Management in Criminal Investigation of Crime Investigations by Criminal Organizations, Attorney General of Ukraine Nagorniak 21.05. In 2014, I set the beginning of criminal prosecution number 42014000000416. On November 19, 2014, Korjak and Zacharychenk were suspected, and on November 20, 2014, the Griffon employees were suspected. Part five of article 27, which sounds. means participation (assisting), the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the People’s Deputy of Novinsky is involved. Slide one, please. The Office of Criminal Investigation, the Henprosecutor of Ukraine, has conducted a criminal investigation since the 14th of May, on the basis of the criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 146, part one of article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, on the basis of the fact that former high-ranking officials have exceeded their official powers: Janukovič, Zakharčenk and Korjak, as well as other members of the law enforcement agencies of Kiev, who have unlawfully deprived the will of a personal assistant to the present-day death of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Metropolitan Kyivsky and all Ukraine of the Blessed Vladimir Sabodan, the archbishop of Przeslav-Hmelnicke and Visnevsky Alexander Drabinka. In this trial, it is established that, between September and December 13, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovic, having the status of Ukrainian national deputy, was an accomplice in the commission of Yanukovič, Zacharychenk and Korjak and other law enforcement officials of Kiev's criminal offence against the will, honour and dignity of the person, as well as in the sphere of service activity. Slide two. In the course of a criminal investigation since 21.05 C.E. 2014 states that Janukovic, from June 13th to February 14th, instead of ensuring the fulfilment of the imperative requirements of article 102 of the Constitution of Ukraine, was acting as a guarantor of human rights and freedoms and a citizen, acting in his own interests, trying to create conditions for the usurpation of power, including through the appointment of higher church positions of loyal men to him, in particular by exerting pressure on Metropolitan Kyivsky and all Ukraine, Vladimir Sabodan, as a means of unlawfully depriving his closest assistant, Drabink Alexander. To achieve this goal, Yanukovich was a prominent member of the nearest community, who had been appointed by unofficial heads of state authorities, law enforcement, judicial authorities, and the church in view of the fact that he was quite the influence of the instrument on the mood of Ukrainian society. Under the circumstances, given that Novinsky had a significant influence on the activity and functioning of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, and in view of his considerable charitable activities and various connections in the Russian Orthodox Church, two days after the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy, he was appointed as Yanukovich responsible for the activities of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. At the same time, without the real possibility of legally removing the Metropolitan of Vladimir from office, since, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Church and the religious organizations in Ukraine are separated from the State, and according to the Statute on the Administration of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, its chairman is elected to life as a bishop, Janukovic decided to ensure that the Metropolitan Volodymyr was abolished from his post with the aim of being elected loyal to the future wrongful demands of the President of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. In the absence of objective reasons for the city and time, but not earlier than 07.11.2011, Zacharychenk's appointment as Minister of Interior, former President Janukovic, with the aim of ensuring a positive outcome for himself in the presidential elections to take place in 2015, particularly by removing the position of UCC Chairman Mitrovica of Kiev and of all Ukraine, the Blessed Prime Minister and the appointment of the Metropolitan of Borispolice and Brovarski Antonia (Pakanic), who would influence his authority and administrative authority through his subordinate church officials on the electorate's mood, commissioned the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Ukraine of Zaharchenka to gather information about persons who were close to the head of the University of the Metropolitan Warfare. In addition, in an unwarranted city and time, the former president of Ukraine, Janukovic, gave Novinsky as a person with whom he had a fairly stable, friendly relationship and who belonged to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and its leadership. At the same time, Novinsky’s role was to bring to a conclusion Janukovic’s planned criminal plan for the removal from his post of Metropolitan Kiev and all Ukraine of Vladimir for the purpose of electing a suitable Janukovich person. The pre-trial investigation has established that the task is to be performed. In August 2013, Ukrainian Security Service officials from the "N" Department of Foreign Affairs studied the interfaith situation in Ukraine, including the question of the possibility of election by a bishop to serve as chairman of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, as determined by Yanukovic, Metropolitan Antonia (Pakanic). It has been established that Archbishop Preyaslav-Hmelnicki and Vishnevsky Alexander Drabinko was the closest man to the Metropolitan of Kiev and all Ukraine of Vladimir. Since the order of the last of the 1st of 1st of August 2006 was appointed by the personal secretary of the chairman and was entrusted to the person Sabodan during his treatment, he was therefore the only one who had the right to sign contracts for the provision of medical services since 10th of 2011. And since August 13th, Sabodan has given the ladder the confidence to make decisions about his treatment that require the patient's signature, which indicates their close relationship. It was by this person, who was the only one who could help to treat the ill, Blessed Metropolitan Volodymyr, who was struck by Janukovich’s order. The Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Zacharychenko, in an unestablished city and time for objective reasons, but not before the seventh year of the 11th year, commissioned the head of the GUMWS in Kiev, Korjak, to collect data on possible illegal actions by persons who were close to Mitrovica Vladimir, including the Stabinka. Following this direction, Korak gave a similar commission to his subjects. Thus, in order to carry out the illegal order of Janukovitch concerning the unlawful removal from the post of Metropolitan Kiev and all Ukraine, Vladimir, the former Minister of Internal Affairs, Zaharchenko, is confidently aware that the investigating department of the Cavern Paradise in Kiev is conducting a judicial investigation into the kidnapping of the governors of the Holy Pochrovska Monastery, a witness of the private secretary, the most trusted person and the only one responsible for the treatment of the Kyivian citizen Drabinko, carried out the order of Janukovič and decided by way of exceeding the official powers to detain the Stabinka of Will. Slide three. Since the judicial investigation into this criminal activity was carried out by the Pecher District Administration, which was directly subordinated to Korjak, former Interior Minister Zacharychenko was responsible for the organization of the earlier criminal plan 17.06. In 2013, while staying in a room in Kiev’s GUMWS, Kiev, the city of Kiev, 15 Volodymyrska Street, involved him in the alleged illegal act of unlawful abandonment of the will of the Stabinka. On this day, in the morning, Zacharychenko, aware that Drabinko was at this point in the Cave Paradise, gave the oral instruction to Korjak to deliver the ladder to his office, located in the administrative building on Wołodimirska Street. In carrying out this instruction, Korak unlawfully provided in his office the meeting of the Minister of Interior with the Stabink, during which Zaharchenko, acting in his previous contract with Janukovič, intended to unlawfully deprive the Stabink of his will in order to force him, under conditions of isolation from society, to persuade Sabodan to renounce the position of Metropolitan Kiev and of all Ukraine, and thus to act on Janukovich's criminal plan, clearly going beyond the limits of his mandate, threatening them by threatening the baseless involvement of the citizen of Stabinek and threatening him with further arrest, understanding that the Stabinko is a public person and the most closer to Mitrovica to the criminal responsibility of the Stabink citizen, and threatening him with further arrest. I want to emphasize that neither then (the investigation was done in 14 years), nor now are there any objective reasons that would allow for the responsibility of the Stabink in this case of the so-called theft of nuns. He was there and remains a witness. The PSC has now questioned the procedural leaders and investigators in this case, who have unanimously shown that Mr. Drabinko. He has no facts against him, and he is only a witness in this matter. The Minister of Internal Affairs, intimidated by the arrest of Stabinka, forced him to sign a request for protection, which later became the convoy of the Stabinka, depriving him, the guard, of the will to move. On the same day, in criminal proceedings, the officer in charge of the Vichy police, without being aware of the criminal plan of Janukovich, which was carried out by Zacharychenko and Korak, signed the Order for the Protection of the Stabink. In the following time, the Chief Investigator of the Watch Tower on the same day gave a decree to the ladder to get to know who signed it. The Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, Korak, who exceeded his official authority and was aware that he was following Zacharychenko's criminal order by giving instructions to his subordinates, ensured that there was an illegal order for security measures to be applied to the task force of the special battalion of the judicial militia, the Griffon, who were not aware of his plan. Also, Korak, realizing that the stated security measure does not provide for a change in the place of residence and the normal way of life of a protected person, exceeding his or her service authority, in violation of the requirements of article 8 of the Act on ensuring the safety of persons who take part in criminal proceedings, in accordance with the previous conspiracy and the execution of Zacharychenk's instructions, clearly going beyond the limits of his or her powers, organized Stabinka's isolation from society by changing his or her place of residence, the removal of telephone and other means of communication, and the possibility of communicating with persons who could provide the latter with appropriate legal assistance. To this end, Korjak, acting deliberately with prior agreement with Zacharychenk, determined by his oral order responsible for the movement and communication of the Stabnik with the surrounding deputy commander "Gryphon" Olishevich and ordered him to agree with him daily on the activities of the "Gryphon" employees regarding the communication and movement of the ladder beyond the orders of Korak not to release him from the place of detention or to provide him with a telephone connection. Slide four. Next, Korak 17.06 In 2013, going beyond the mandate given to him, acting against the requirements of the Law on the Safety of Persons, without any real threat of unlawful interference with the life and health of Drobnik, implementing his criminal intent aimed at depriving him of the latter's will, and realizing that he was in compliance with Zacharychenk's order, he instructed the colleagues of the Griffon to keep Stabinka in the adjacent number of the Opera Hotel from 17 to 20 June 2013 and provided funding for this illegal maintenance. By continuing these actions, Korak, following the illegal direction of Zacharychenka, realizing that the long-term residence of the ladder in a joint room with armed colleagues of the Griffon, could attract the attention of outsiders and could lead to the detection of their unlawful actions, with the aim of concealing the commission of a criminal offence and, at the same time, trying to force the Stabink to persuade the Blessed Metropolitan Vladimir to renounce his position as a Metropolitan, changed his place of detention for the Stabink. In addition, he was kept in the Grand Admiral Club in the city of Irpin and later in the "Bahn Palace of Vyshgrad" located in the Visgrad district of Kiev. All of this illegal detention of a citizen of the Stabink, his so-called protection, is confirmed by the evidence of Sergiyevsky's clerics, Gigulina, Dimitrov, Griffin's staff and the staff of the specified hotels and rest facilities. The fifth slide. In addition, the chief of HUMBs in Kiev Korak, acting under a previous contract with Zacharychenk, following the latter’s orders, during the course of 1 / 07 13th and 13th. On 13th year, he arranged four times for the carriage of the Stabink by the staff of the Griffon to the HUMWE in Kiev and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, where there was a meeting of the victim with Zacharychenk, during which the latter, acting on purpose, exceeded his official authority by carrying out the criminal plan of Janukovich, demanded that Stabink persuade the Chairman of the UPC to write an application for a waiver from the occupied office, to which the latter did not agree. This is confirmed by the indications of the ladder itself and Dimitrov. Slide six. At the same time, the trial found that 5.09.2013, at the initiative of UPC Chairman Mitrovica Kyivsky and Ukraine's entire Vladimir Sabodan, there was a meeting between him and Yanukovic in the office of the Ukrainian President's Administration for the release of the Stabink, where Novinski was also present. This is confirmed by the examples of Gigulina, Stabinka, Sergeyevsky, Jakovczuk, and Novinski themselves. Slide seven. As a result, on that same day a meeting took place at the suburban residence of Metropolitan Kyivsky and all of Ukraine, Volodymira, Kiev, with the participation of Yanukovič, Novinski, Sabodan and Drabinka, where Yanukovic was responsible for the further fate of the Stabink on Novinski, which the latter agreed. This is confirmed by the evidence of Stabinka, Sergiyevsky, Gigulina. Slide eight. The trial found that the following day, on 6.09.2013, a meeting took place on the territory of the Kiev-Pecher laurel in the format of five, namely: Stabinka, Žigulina, Derkača, Novinski, Antonia (Pakanica), where the last two were reported, quoted literally from the materials of the criminal case: "There is only one way to solve the situation, namely: The Blessed Vladimir leaves for peace and is given certain titles and privileges, the council elects the new chairman of the UPC of Mitrovica Antonia (Pakanic), Drabinko departs from the country for half-year, and after his return his duty will be decided by a new church leadership." Thus, these words clearly prove Novinski’s awareness of Janukovich’s criminal plan to remove Metropolitan Vladimir from his church position and the apparent efforts of Deputy Novinski to impose this plan on Metropolitan Volodymyr by threatening to continue the removal of his secretary’s will and the nearest assistant to the Stabink. These words, these events are confirmed not only by the victim’s testimony, but also by the witness Gigulina who was present at this meeting and fully supports the performance of Novinsky’s role as a helper to the criminal plan of Yanukovic. At the same time, the investigation found that, starting from September to December 2013, Novinsky, with the aim of carrying out the task of Janukovic to carry out any means of exerting pressure on Kyivsky's Metropolitan and all Ukraine, with the aim of leaving him for peace and election to his post, which was acceptable to Yanukovic, Pakanic, and not carrying out the legal commission of Janukovic, who had entrusted him with the further non-legal maintenance of the Stabink, gave repeated instructions to Korjak on the possibility or failure to move the injured Stabink from the territory where he was staying. The investigation has information about 40 mobile phone connections between Korjak and Novinski between 6.09 and 14.12.2013, and we certainly do not know the text of these conversations, but immediately after these telephone connections Korak called "Grifon" and instructed that Novinsky be released for worship or other meetings. These facts are confirmed by the testimony of the victim, the witnesses, the phone records, and the Novinsky himself, who tries to interpret them for his own reasons. The ninth slide. In addition, the fact that Janukovic and Zacharychenk were aware of the illegal detention of Drabink was informed, inter alia, by letters dated 29.08 from Mitrovica of Kiev and all Ukraine of Vladimir to President Januković of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Pšonka dated 04.12., Minister of Interior of Zharchenchenko dated 02.12., 06.12., 10.12., where he asked to be released from the actual custody of his assistant and Secretary of the Stabink. We have some information from the OPC Office, a demonstration by Cleric Sergiyewski, a presentation by the Deputy Minister of Interior of the Doctor, and we can also demonstrate (slide "9+") a personal letter signed by Metropolitan Vladimir, which contains the inputs and the resolution of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk himself. In his letter, Mitrovica Vladimir simultaneously tried to resist Janukovic's criminal plan to take over the post of Metropolitan Kyivsky and all Ukraine of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church by a person appointed by ex-President Janukovic. In a letter from 06.08.2013 to the Bishop of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Metropolitan Kyivsky and all of Ukraine, Blazejskier Vladimir expressed his distrust of the Metropolitan of Borispils and Brovarske Antonia and by his decree of 06.08 liberated the latter from his post as the first vicar of the Kyiv metropolis on the grounds that he, I quote, "has an early ambition to occupy the throne of the Kyiv Metropolitans". I mean, despite the imprisonment of the nearest person, Metropolitan Vladimir tried to prevent Janukovic from usurping the post of Metropolitan Kyivsky and of Ukraine as a whole. The freedom to move freely was granted only after 13.12.2013. After being in the office of former Minister Zacharychenk, he filed an appropriate application for the cessation of the security measures he had read but was returned. And it was only the revolution that finally freed the ladder from captivity. Dear colleagues! The deliberate actions of Janukovič, Novinski, Zacharychenka, Korjak, the investigators of the Vichy, Kozluka, the workers of the special unit "Grifon" Maljikka, Olishević have led to violations of the rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution of Ukraine. The right to freedom and personal integrity of Ukrainian citizen ladder Alexander, expressed in the illegal deprivation of his will for 179 days, that is, for a long time. The incident of this crime is objectively and convincingly confirmed by evidence gathered with respect to the principles and legality of the rule of law, in strict compliance with the procedure established by the Criminal Procedural Code, namely, that of the witness Derkat, Pakanic, the injured Ladder, the witness Sergeyevsky, the witness Wolincz, the witness Dimitrov, the witness Grybnik, the witness Schüklin, the witness of the Grybenko, the witness of the Hmeljnick, the witness of the witness, the witness of the Taliban, the witness of Krzycznik, the witness of Kiank, the witness of Bebech, the witness of Avramenka, the witness of Kohutenka, the witness of the witness, the witness of the witness of Warsaw, the witness, the witness of the witness of Krzyśuba, the witness to the case. Also by interview protocol, Witness Draža, Witness Olishević, Witness Radivil, Statement of the Stabinka, Decision on the Application of Security Arrangements for the Stabink, Decision on the Continuation of Security Arrangements, Letters of Mitrovica Volodymira, Letter of Security Service, Minutes and Interviews of Witness Kozluk, Witness Spike, Witness Copy, Witness Melnik, Witness Kravchenk. By letters from Mitrovica Volodymyr to Yanukovich, Pschenka and Zacharychenka and other evidence. In this connection, on November 21, 2016, in my office of work, Janukovic, as the organizer of the illegal deprivation of the will of a Ukrainian citizen, Drabinka, was informed of the suspicion of part three of article 27, part two of article 146, and part three of article 27, part two of article 365, and after the signing of these documents, in the legal order of the report, Janukovič was suspected. Slide 11. Thus, Novinsky Vadislavovich, by his deliberate actions, expressed in his support of Yanukovic, Zacharychenk, Korjak, Plitzik, Olishevich, in the illegal deprivation of liberty by a previous conspiracy group, committed the criminal offence provided for in article 27, part two, of the Criminal Code, Article 146. In addition, Novinsky Vadislavovic, who deliberately exceeded their duties, deliberately committed acts that clearly go beyond their rights or powers, which have caused substantial damage to the rights and interests of citizens protected by law, committed a criminal offence, provided for in article 27 of Part One of Article 365 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Dear colleagues, at this time the Ukrainian national deputy Novinsky is taking part in the case as a witness. Without the Supreme Council's decision to bring criminal responsibility, we can't put it in another status -- the suspicion of Yanukovic, Koryak or Zacharychenk. It is up to you whether or not Mr. Novinski will continue to be a witness, unlike all other participants in the criminal plan of ex-President Yanukovic, whether he will be a criminal aider or a suspect, and then, after carrying out appropriate investigations, and the indictment, which will be referred to the court, where there is the only place to establish objective evidence of the presence or absence of the guilt of the Ukrainian national deputy. According to part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", part two of article 482 KPC of Ukraine, article 218 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, approved by the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" of 10.02. In 2010, I ask you to consider this submission and to agree to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Novinsky Vadislavovic, on June 3, 1963, of the birth of a Ukrainian citizen elected by the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency from the political party "Opposition Block" in the election of the national MPs, and which has gained the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 27, 2014. Please identify yourself in the hall as an opportunity to investigate objectively and impartially to the present - day Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Novinski. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u3	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. The Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski is now invited to the floor. Dear colleagues, we have 15 minutes under the Rules. The Attorney General used 25 minutes, and we can't give any more time. [[Noise Nodes]] So, Vadim Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the issue before the Supreme Council today, and we are considering today the presentation of the Attorney-General. If this submission is not subject to legal education and read carefully, it is clear that it is simply political. A detective based on the report, false testimony, assumptions and fantasies of the Attorney General's Office. And I am grateful to the regulatory committee, which, after careful examination, has been professionally seized and has taken a bold decision and an objective decision, and in this decision it does not meet the criteria of objectivity, sufficiency and justification. In short, what I have been accused of, what Yuri Vitalevich has told me for so long, I have been accused of being an assistant to organizers and performers of allegedly unlawful deprivation of the liberty of a citizen of Drabinko. But the organizers were suspected of having aids. My last name isn't on those suspicions. It's a proof that I'm not guilty, that I wasn't a supporter of any, perhaps even in the misdemeanor of the former leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. With regard to the perpetrators, i.e. the Griffon officers, who carried out protection under the law and on the basis of a self-signed statement by a citizen of Drabinko. From the first letter to the last letter, this statement was signed by them by them for protection. Thus, the Griffon case has been under way since 2014. The case has been referred four times to the Vishgo District Court. On four occasions, the court sent this to the Attorney-General's Office for the absence of the composition of the offence. So far, the status of the Griffon has not been determined: they are neither accused nor suspected, i.e. they have not committed any crimes. So what am I being accused of? Who was I supposed to be? Next. At the initiative of the Attorneys General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs carried out an audit in 2014, an official review of the activities of the staff of the Griffon in the protection of the citizen of Drabinko. And no criminal violations were found there. That is the conclusion of this commission, and there is the signature of Minister Habakkuk. However, the conclusion stated that the investigators of the Attorney General's Office were under pressure to accuse the griffon people of violating any articles of the Criminal Code. That is, the Attorney General's Office has also pressured the Ministry's investigators on this issue. It's about the calls to Korjak. Yes, they were, I confirm that. But they were after Drabinko came to me, he called me and asked for help. I called back after that and made requests to Drabinko, and I forwarded those requests to Korjak. Stabinko didn't just call me, he called other people's deputies, he called other high-ranking people in our country, and they called Korak. Why, then, are they not accused of anything, the people who called Korak along with me and asked for the help of Drabinko? And I also want to say. Not according to Yanukovic's instructions, but at the blessing of the Blessed One, according to the submission, at an unknown time in an unknown place, the former President gave me an order. Is that a legal term, please? But known time, a known place where the former, now deceased Metropolitan, the Blessed Metropolitan Vladimir asked me to help Drabinko. And not only did he ask for it, but he blessed me for it. And as a man of the church, a believer, for me the blessing of the Most Blessed is an order; it is a law. I honestly fulfilled his blessing, his request. And everything I could, by law, helped Drabinko at the time. He was moving everywhere he wanted to. He was at Masses, at various festivals, at meetings with politicians, he was at Phoefania, at the residence of the Blessed One, he was at the Obreg Clinic, but he wasn't in the nightclubs, he wasn't allowed in. And so he freely moved around the city on his car, the guards followed him on another car, he could go anywhere he wanted. If he was deprived of his liberty, he could have declared it anywhere, but he didn't tell anyone about it, he didn't tell any of the members of Synod about it, and he didn't tell any of the other architects. And there were no complaints from the Blessed One that there was any pressure on him either. And in the material of the case, they questioned other members of the Holy Synod of OPC and they confirmed it, but the consequence closeds their eyes. The connection with Korak, yet distinguished gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, contact with Korjak and access to my phone have been received by the Attorney-General's Office to circumvent the Supreme Council's decision. Indeed, according to the law, access to the telephone is available only after the Supreme Council has given its consent. That is, these evidences, even these evidences, are illegal and do not have the right to be present in this submission. All of this allows me to say that this case is fabricated from beginning to end by the Attorney-General's Office. And the purpose of manufacturing this case is political pressure, political persecution. The Attorney General's Office became the NCCD model in 1937 and became a political Inquisition. It prosecutes all opposing politicians. The power to rob people through looting tariffs, through prices, through beatings. And all those who struggle with that power are immediately persecuted and persecuted by those who tell the truth about it. And the Attorney-General's Office is an instrument in these illegal acts. Underneath that, there is still economic support. And for that reason, I say that before the meeting of the committee by the military prosecutor's office, one of the leaders of Smart Holding from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. was searched for a court with a completely different name. When they were told, the man lived there, and said, "No, we have to search here." They turned the house upside down. And who will be responsible for these illegal acts? I've prepared a request for the Attorney General. And I would like to take this opportunity to refer this request to the Attorney-General so that the Attorney-General will deal with this incident, in this case, objectively, and punish all those responsible. As far as integrity is concerned. In all countries of the world, civilized, inviolability is not a means of protecting against prosecution, it is a way of preventing the persecution of political opponents. Persecution of those who disagree with power. And now you're voting for withdrawing your immunity from Deputy Novinsky. I've never hidden behind her. You vote in favour of allowing the Supreme Council or not further the Office of the Attorney-General to deal with this injustice, this lawlessness, to fabricate cases without any apparent reason, the legal ones, to pack people into cells, to throw testimony on other politicians, to engage in political persecution and economic rackets. I'll make any decision you make tonight in peace. Because I know the truth is on my side. And the truth always wins. And I wanted to say one more thing. The Attorney-General's presentation said that Yanukovic had devised his criminal plan, which gave me citizenship. So I want to tell the Attorney General that he knows. The reason for granting me citizenship as former President of Ukraine was the request of the Minister of Economy in the Government of Azarov Peter Alexeevich Poroshenko. Here's a letter, and here's his signature, which says that for special reasons before Ukraine I ask to give citizenship to a citizen of Novinsky. It follows that President Poroshenko is a member of this criminal group, which has devised this criminal plan to overthrow Mitrovica Vladimir. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here's a letter. I'm giving it to the speaker. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is now given five minutes to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please be as concise as possible, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u7	The Honourable Head of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee at its meetings on 16 November and 6 December, with the participation of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, considered the submission, supported by the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovic. The application was initiated by the Prosecutor General's Office of Nagorniak Bogdan Mikolaiovich. The committee reached a conclusion on the legality of submission. The submission of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Novinsky is initiated and submitted by the appropriate applicant. With regard to motivation, justification for submission, and availability of evidence. In order to reach a reasonable conclusion as to whether or not there is sufficient evidence to support the involvement of the Novinsky People’s Deputies in the commission of crimes, the National Deputies and members of the Committee during their consideration of the submission of November 16 was decided on a number of questions by the Attorney General of Ukraine. In response to questions raised by members of the Henprocuror committee, he did not confirm the existence of sufficient evidence of the involvement of the Novinsky people’s deputy in the commission of criminal offences that had been incriminated against him. Instead, the Attorney General informed the members of the committee of his intention to gather evidence of his involvement, or involuntaryness, after consenting by the Supreme Council to bring him to criminal liability. Thus, the Attorney-General of Ukraine did not state any arguments or arguments that would justify the existence on the part of the prosecution of evidence sufficient to bring a national MP to criminal responsibility, but informed them of the intention to gather them after the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the criminal responsibility of Deputy Novinsky. The committee allowed the prosecution to provide such evidence and arguments and addressed the prosecutor with a letter. In response, the Office of the Attorney-General did not agree to provide additional documents and answers to a large number of questions, citing the absence of permission to disclose the secret of the investigation. Under such circumstances, the committee does not have sufficient grounds to conclude on the motivation and soundness of the submission of an agreement to involve the criminal responsibility of the national MP. Thus, the committee did not receive sufficient information to support the involvement of Novinski Vadislavovich in the commission of the misdemeanours mentioned in the report, supported and submitted by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Lack of sufficient information on the evidence that gives rise to suspicion of Novinsky and made by the Attorney-General of Ukraine during the meeting of the committee of the statement of the need to collect such evidence after the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given its consent to attract a deputy to criminal responsibility, prevents it from being able to determine the adequacy, legality and soundness of submission. The only conclusion that the committee considers reasonable that it was able to reach on the basis of the materials provided is that the submission of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the national MP is initiated and submitted by the appropriate submitting body in accordance with the requirements of part two of Rule 218 of the Rules, article 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now we have statements from the factions and the MPs -- 24 minutes, and then from the national MPs. Colleagues, you'll be able to ask questions in the speeches. And in the closing statement, the Attorney General will be able to answer them. So I'm going to explain the structure again: now you're coming from the factions, and then, 15 minutes from the MPs. I hope all those who wish will be able to speak. So, colleagues, please record the performances from the MP factions and groups. Please record.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, Mr. Yuri Boyko, the leader of the faction is invited from the Opposition Block. Please, Mr. Yuri. He is given the word of his colleague Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! The position of our faction is immutable: today. The consideration of today’s issue is the typical political persecution of our colleague, who has two goals. Why is this issue being considered today? The first task of the government is to distract society from the total failure of foreign and domestic politics over the last two years. They don't wait for a visa, they don't have a full association with the European Union, they don't lend to the IMF, they don't give in to the internal market total poverty, unemployment, crazy tariffs. Let's distract society, let's do an information guide, and it's a criminal case. The second goal is to intimidate the opposition, shut the mouth of opposition deputies before the government adopts the budget that virtually wipes out the lives of 10 million pensioners. The government understands that we will not vote in favour of this budget, and on the basis of this criminal case, it is trying to signal other deputies to be more eloquent and to vote in favour of this shameful phenomenon, which is the 2017 budget in the form of a government. We believe that the position of Parliament's leadership in this situation is extremely negative when it comes to this issue. The speaker of Parliament, without the committee's consideration, took a position of pressure on the regular committee, pressure on the deputies, demanding it to vote in the Chamber. We understand why this position is on the speaker's side. Because it has long represented not only the interests of this Parliament, but only parts of it, but today it has given in to the ultimatum of a separate faction that has made this vote conditional. Just as they once set conditions for voting on the Horn of Curve, this ended in a complete failure of political power. That is why we will protect our colleague, Vadim Novinski. Just as we will protect any MP, despite the political colour, if he is the object of the political persecution of today's government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Gus is handing the word to his colleague Yuri Berezi. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u12	We've just heard from two of the Fifth Column reps. Not just the fifth column are the people who are directly responsible for the events of 2013. Now they call us to tolerance, opposition, respect for opposition, and where were you when you shot Midan? Where were you when you took the activists out into the woods and took their lives? Where were you when you took Crimea? Where were you when you killed the first soldiers in Crimea? Where were you when you started killing Ukrainians in Donbas? Where? You know, when criminals start to translate into the level of opposition, when the same party, we'll call it straight, the Party of Regions, talking about removing the parliamentary immunity -- so show it, go to court, defend yourself. Why are you bringing Parliament into the misunderstandings? You were talking about taking away the MP's touch. Where? Where? Listen, and you have nothing to say because you are the fifth column. The fifth column that worked and worked for Russia! And now I am addressing the entire Parliament. You know, I don't want to hear that lambs blazing. As this "sir" said, not to colleagues, but to houses, you know, to cholera go to Russia, there'll be gentlemen there. I know clearly, now, during this parliamentary vote on maturity, the question of how mature we are in Parliament, how mature we are, how Ukrainian we are, how much we expect and expect from the state, just as we expect hundreds of people killed in Midan, relatives of hundreds killed in Midan, loved ones killed in eastern Ukraine in the course of the war. I don't want to, you know, keep going on about the church issues that this punk is trying to talk about. I know clearly if he thinks he's innocent, go to court. And don't manipulate the Supreme Council, don't manipulate it, because it won't work. I'm not talking to them, they're all clear, the fifth column, they were and they're going to be the hole of Moscow, we want it, we don't want it, for today it's a reality. I'm talking to a sober, healthy pro-Ukrainian part of the room. I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u13	Fifteen seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u14	This is our test of maturity, of maturity to be a member of the Ukrainian Parliament, of maturity to follow the orders of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u15	Thank you, mate. The Semenich People's Deputy of the Self-Help faction passes the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u16	You know that Self-Help came out of the voting room to make that vote happen. Today is the 35th day that Parliament is considering this decision. And we ask all fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of depriving Novinsky of the MP's inviolability. But there is no stopping this decision. And we have a huge request to the Attorney General: we want to understand why all the other cases, including the cases of terrorism of Eromaydan, are in the same condition that they were in for Victor Shokin, for Vitaly Jarem, for the first prosecutor after Eromaydan Nenetik. Even the Constitutional Court, which gave Yanukovich dictatorial powers and whose signatures are under these rulings, is sitting quietly in the Constitutional Court at the head of the court. It's very important that not only Vadim Novinski, but all of them, including those who are not in the opposition block faction or other debris of the Party of the Regions, are actually doing the theft of the country with Yanukovich, helping him in repression, continuing these schemes now, very important that they also respond. Vadim Novinsky evidently extended his greetings to Peter Dustenka today. I think there are a lot of people in this room who understand how important it is to break the circle message. As soon as she's broken up in one place, she'll be all over the place. Of course, we need to be very careful. We are indeed parliamentarians of the state that is at war. But in the interests of this state, in the interests of all its citizens, in the interests of its soldiers step by step, removing the intricacy of the national MPs, investigating the crimes of other high-ranking people, not only by one political power, but by breaking up the kleptocrats in every way, step by step to cleanse the state. We urge Parliament to follow this path, we urge the Attorney-General to follow this path and we urge the President to make this way possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u17	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Láška goes on to speak, as I understand it, the leader of the Oleg Láško faction, gives him the word of his colleague Artemenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I personally don't believe a word Attorney General Lucenk said. I want to remind Mr. Lucenka of Boris Kolesnik's case when he from this rostrum convinced the whole country that Kolesniks had committed a crime, he was imprisoned, Boris Kolesnikov had been imprisoned for more than six months in prison, then Kolesnik's prison was released, the case closed, Lucenko in front of Kolesnik's, I think, even apologized, if not on his knees. I would like to remind the Attorney General of the second case, the case of our former colleague of the MP's region, my political opponent, but nevertheless, the Ukrainian citizen, who has all the rights provided by the Constitution of Sergey Medanik. The Medes were detained in August for accusations of secessionism. For 3 months Sergey the Medici served time in prison, after which Lucenko released Sergey the Medici, closed the case for the absence of a component of the crime. I have a question, and who's to answer for people sitting in jail illegally for the Attorney General's piano, who needs to be set up on Facebook in the morning who he's been holding for another time. I would like to see, in addition to reports of detention, judgments that have legally gained power only after that are considered guilty and criminal. And when you detain them on the basis of false accusations for your own political pianist, then you quietly release them and you don't even apologize, it's called a criminal offense. By the way, when you're here telling the story of the organized criminal group Yanukovic, I'm going to tell you another story that's going to be investigated by the new government and it's going to be called "The Organized Crime Group led by President Prashenko," which, using the authority to appoint Attorney General Lucenka illegally changed the law, through Oneshenko bribed the deputies and appointed his godfather Lucenk as Attorney General to carry out the political orders. That's what's going to happen with the new government. As far as Novinsky is concerned. We believe that Novinsky’s case should go to trial, and Novinsky is there to prove his position. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will vote in favour of agreeing to bring Vadim Novinski into criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u19	From Peter Poshenko's Block, the Barna People's Deputy passes the word Alexia Hotcharenko. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! First, the faction of Peter Dustenk supports the decision to remove parliamentary immunity from Mr. Vadim Novinski. Why? And because the Peter Prashenko faction has a principled position that we don't have the right to divide the country into masters and boys, because that's what we're talking about right now, because that's what we're talking about right now. Is the Supreme Council to decide whether or not Novinski is guilty? No, we're not the courts, we're not the investigators. What question should the Supreme Council now answer? The Supreme Council must answer the question whether the Ukrainian Parliament should be honest with Ukrainian society, whether it can hold Ukrainians for fools. How else can it be called, if all the political forces, all of you who went to Parliament, when they went to the elections, said to the electorate, "we for removing the parliamentary immunity," they all said. What are we talking about? What questions? There's an application for Novinsky. They took off the touch. Novinski went to court, one of the richest people in Eastern Europe. He has the opportunity to hire the best lawyers in the world, and let him defend himself, and in court he will prove himself right if he does. And now they're trying to get us into some kind of breakdown. Can you hear what they're telling us? About the budget, about the Facebook jealousy, about the jealousy of the pyar. What's going on? We're being told about Oneshchenka. About Oneshchenka, who's the only one he named today, is the name of the gentleman who spoke to me, he said he offered him $10 million, our radical faction, $10 million! It was right on the live broadcast of the Ukrainian TV channel (I don't call any last name so we don't have another "one-on-one replica" here. Ten million dollars! And the master to whom he said that confirmed it directly. So, dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you: there's a test now that the Ukrainian Parliament is the Ukrainian Parliament, it's the people who are elected by the Ukrainians, or it's the people who are deceiving their electorate, who have told them one thing, but when they go to Parliament, they spit on their promises and now they say, "Look, we want to look at the issues!" I want to inform you that this is a sad decision of the regulatory committee -- there was a 6-in-pro, and three were against. Three are representatives of the Petra Poroshenko Bloc faction, because it was President Peter Poroshenko who, in the first month of this Supreme Council's work, introduced a bill on the elimination of the feudal institution of parliamentary immunity. The very voices of the "Peter Prashenko Block" are whitely supported in the first reading, sent to the Constitutional Court, and it is by our own voices that the MP's in touch with Moses, Clovis and today, I'm sure, will be removed from Novinski. Because this is our face, this is our answer to people's questions, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u21	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u22	Ukrainian National Deputies or Barriers That Defraud the Ukrainian People? We all vote, we all vote in favour of removing the MP's in touch! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. There are requests on the line, but not all colleagues have spoken. Please, everyone's coming up now, then the lines. Please, from Rebirth, from the group, Andrew Shipko. And I have a question for the People's Will group: will they be speaking from you? The Honorable Group "The Will of the People," are they going to speak from you? They won't. Then there'll be a lineup, then there'll be a record of the national MPs. Oh, yes. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! He carefully examined the materials presented to the Supreme Council and saw twice the meeting of the regulatory committee, our group concluded that there would be no vote in favour of criminalization and the removal of parliamentary immunity from Vadim Novinski. Why? Because, you know, you can say puffsy words here, you can say puffsy words here, you can talk about each other, you know, some of them red, some of them green. But let's go back to the facts. And the facts are simple. Here's the decision, the conclusion of the committee, which clearly states, "This way, the committee has not received sufficient information to confirm the involvement of the Novinsky People's Deputy in the commission of the misdemeanours noted in the application." There is a lack of sufficient information on the evidence. What else do we need to say? Will we turn this rafter upside down? Our group continues to believe that in the eyes of the entire Ukrainian people, when we make such decisions, we are involved in church affairs. It is not our right or the right of the Attorney General to interfere in church affairs. Everyone knows what kind of man Vadim Vladislavovich is. How many people's deputies are there in the hall that he has personally helped! Is someone in trouble or is that someone who fits? What, this guy's got a double bottom?Oh, my God! Tell me, does he have a double bottom?Oh, my God! No! No! Why did he say that he was alone when he spoke here in the rostrum? And I believe the truth will succeed. That's why I'm for us to do ours, if there's a submission, right, there's evidence, let the people answer. But in that case, it reminds us of political divisions. In this case, it reminds us of the intervention in church affairs. That is why our group will be against it. Because we don't want the Attorney General to interfere with the Church. We don't want the Attorney General to enter the soul of a Ukrainian! I want to go to this church, I'm going to go! I want to help this church, I will help this church! I have seen and know many rulers, and I am myself an Orthodox believer. Tell me, please, that our State will benefit from the emergence in our State of people who help churches, develop the spirituality and culture of our people?Oh, my God! So that's the whole force. So, let's, if we're people's deputies and we want to do the right thing, let's prove it! And then let's vote. And when there is no evidence, do not interfere with political or church affairs! This is the position of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u25	Thank you, colleagues. I haven't been able to sign up for the Fatherland faction yet. It's the last speaker, then a lineup, and then the national MPs. From "The Fatherland" is Ivan Krulko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u26	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Mr. Novinski according to the Attorney General. Why will we support this decision? We come from the fact that all Ukrainian citizens are equal before the law. And that's why, if there's a suspicion of law enforcement regarding any citizen, he has to defend himself in court. There can be no caste of the untouchable. The caste of the untouchable creates inequality. That is why I believe that the Parliamentary Chamber should vote positively on all the submissions relating to the responsibility of the national MPs. But at the same time, it's totally cynical when this room calls for the largest faction of the BPT Parliament to vote in the second reading of the issue of inviolability. So put him in the session room! Why isn't this question being voted out here right now? Why do we again hear the willingness to do so, but there are no real things? Why don't we vote on the President's impeachment law in this room? Why do we make another caste untouchable? Why do we not vote in this room on the Law on the Cancellation of the Inviolability of Judges? Why do we have a whole caste of untouchables that make decisions against the interests of the people? I want to ask you, where is the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council? Why does every president promise him? Why does the President not want Parliament to have its House of Accounts and block the matter of the Court of Auditors in this room? And now we're trying to say, let's solve a particular question. It's not about that, it's about the system, and that's why "Paternality" will systematically always support that no one has any privileges before the law. And the last. You know, I'm not interested in church affairs. The church is to be a church itself, it is separate from the state. But I want to say one thing, so that we don't have such situations, that Ukraine needs a suburban Ukrainian Orthodox Church that will protect the interests of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state and pray for the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! During the discussion, three factions called for replication were mentioned. Please, the first is the Opposition Block, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u28	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! During the speech of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Majdan and his consequences were mentioned. I would like to remind many of the people here in Ukraine, on February 20, 2014 -- it was a very difficult day for all of us. You remember, in order to make a historic decision to withdraw troops from the center of Kiev, the opposition at the time was not enough. I want to remind you that just like the voice of Novinski Vadim Vladislavovich, this decision has been adopted, the question of responsibility, it always arises in such critical situations. And today, there is also a critical situation: for the first time in the history of the independent parliament of Ukraine, we bring to the attention the submission of the Attorney-General, after a negative conclusion of the professional regulatory committee. It's never been like this before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nestor! It will be possible for the deputies to speak in two minutes. And from the Radical Party, Andrew. And then, and then from BP, and then from BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u30	I am glad that you know my name. Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u31	I'm sorry, please. Mr. Lazko and Mr. Andri Lozivo. Excuse me, please. Mr. Andrey Lozov, may I have your permission?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u32	Thank you. The faction of the Radical Party Lašček is the only faction that revealed the corruption of the gas oligarch Onishtenka (Cadirova) for over a year and a half called the names of his delegate managers. At the time, the largest faction of the Parliament was hiding it because everyone knew who he was carrying the money to. Here comes the former leader of the Janukovich faction in the Odessa City Council, and there is something there to tell about Oneshchenka. Everyone in this room knows whose commission Onishenko was giving away money. And we demand that the names of all the 70 deputies who received from Oneshchenk between $20,000 and $100,000 a month for certain votes be published because. and when. Now, appreciate cynicism. A big fan of the Russian world from the largest faction of parliament, against which the Ukrainian Security Service broke the case in the summer, because in 2012 he called in Odessa for "Russian peace," because he was the man who cherished it. Give me 30 seconds, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u33	I can't give Nestor 30 seconds and I can't give you. Please, to the word of Vadim Denisenko from BPP. I'm asking you not to mention each other, because we're going to have replicas in 12 hours. Thank you. Mr. Andrey Lozov, please. Mr. Denisenko, Dennis Denisenko from BPP, Vadim, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the worst thing that can happen to all of us right now is if we start talking about Oneshchenk and someone else, about Kadirov, about who's taken millions. There's a specific point, we all, when we went to Parliament here, we talked about what we're doing for the removal of parliamentary immunity. The D.A. doesn't ask for arrest, the D.A. doesn't ask for detention, the D.A. asks for opportunities to work properly. All of us, when we went here to this Parliament, we said we were going to vote for it, let's now show that we're voting for it. And I would also like to point out that 38 deputies have registered Law 5038, which complicates and makes it impossible for the MP who's meeting to go abroad, against whom the Attorney General's Office has been filed. Let's vote on this law next week, and we'll take down half of all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u35	Thank you for the faction's position. Dear colleagues, it is now 15 minutes for the national MPs of Ukraine and we are announcing a record of these performances from the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u36	Please hold the recording, please. The river Andriy Alexanderovich, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Guzu Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u38	Please speak, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u39	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Goose, Volin. Dear friends, in this room today, they want to play a disgraceful game when some of the deputies are in favor, but they'll come out of the hall, some of the deputies are in favor, but they'll forget to vote. Today what he called Yuri Lucenko is only part of a case that can be attributed to anyone from the Opposition Block. Three fourths in this room were in Midan and supported Midan, please tell me, in three years, we're all responsible for not having any livestock planted? Yes or no? We all have responsibilities, not just Lucenko, all those who were in the coalition, those who came out of the coalition and so on. We should not say that this is not our responsibility. Novinsky specifically financed the Anti-Maidan, and we know that. Novinsky specifically financed this year's church that went out and walked against the Ukrainian state, do we know that or not? If we don't have enough votes today to remove the intactness of Novinski, that's the last klick of Maidan's idea. Because tomorrow we won't vote for any of the people who funded the Anti-Maidan who were involved in the murder of the Celestial 100 and who started the whole storm on Donbassa. We know that. So I'm going to go to the non-occupation in this room, and to the Ukrainian people, each of you has the Internet, go to the Supreme Council page after this vote, find your own MP. And when the session is adjourned, take the one who does not vote for the removal of the inviolability of the person who is involved in the murder of the Celestial 100, the war on Donbas, for other reasons, is the deputy of the Novinsky. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u40	Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich gives the word Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Honourable citizens of Ukraine who observe the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and see this issue under consideration. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of both the presiding and the national deputies of Ukraine to that document, the main document that is today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the Rules, which are approved by the law of Ukraine and I would like to follow them, because even if you look at the procedure for dealing with this issue, article 221 of the Rules has been violated during this procedure. Because it provides half an hour for the Ukrainian national deputies to ask questions to the Attorney General of Ukraine. And I think we have a lot of questions that we'd like to answer. Next question. We have seen today that, first of all, it is to the honor of Mr. Novinski that he is present in the hall. In addition, the Attorney General emphasized that he was deliberately involved in the investigation, cooperating with the investigation. So today there is no reason to believe that Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich is avoiding investigations, and in this matter, we need the Office of the Attorney-General to deal with it impartially. But the country’s distinguished National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee, is working with documents. And if you take the submissions submitted by the Attorney General of Ukraine and analyze the documents that are presented, then there's a complete discrepancy, because I've taken Mr. Zacharyenko's suspicion and Mr. Korjak's suspicion, that's a suspect document. So today the Attorney General said that Vadim Vladislavovich is a witness. But there is no word on this suspicion about Novinski. That is, Mr. Zacharynck's suspect is missing from this document, and there is no accomplice. There is no doubt about Korak, if you take even the letters that are given and I read you the text, the text from a letter that the Blessed Metropolitan Vladimir reigns in heaven, yes. Although there are doubts about the signature. However, there is a text that reads: "The more at the meeting with Viktor Fedorovich, there was a mutual thought that the obstacles to Alexander being constantly within the monastery of Feofania or Lavra were not." That is, the documents that the Attorney General has given to the profile committee confirm Mr. Novinski's innocence more than the guilt that goes on the record, where it is said that unknown persons in an undetermined place at an undetermined time made decisions. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would ask everyone to examine the documents before voting. And secondly, I would very much like the vote to come out of this matter very seriously with regard to our colleague personally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u42	Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich is handing over Igor Lapin. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u43	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, every one of us who went to this Parliament, and especially the majors, we all said so well that we promised the Ukrainian people that we would fight to remove the MP's in touch with every MP. I am now addressing the Attorney General -- we supported your candidacy, and so am I. But I want to tell you that today, not only is it an honor for our national deputies to keep their word, but it is your honor today to keep their word that this episode will go through in court and be brought to a logical conclusion. Because I know that there are economic crimes, and there's the looting of government funds. That's why I think you'd have to carry all the episodes. But, nevertheless, the People's Front, as promised, is systematically fighting for the removal of intactities from all MPs, including, and others like me, and others like us, and others like all of them. We must all be equal before the law. So I urge you, colleagues, let's not do a self-piar or self-image here. It's not our job to conduct an investigation today, we have a prosecutor's office, we have investigating authorities, and they have to deal with all the details of whether there is guilt or not. Our work today is to resolve one global issue: Do we allow the prosecution to do what it has to do directly? And so I urge everyone to give this permission, to stop speculating on the existence or indiscretion of evidence, this is a matter of prosecution and investigation. I call on everyone to support by this positive vote the removal of parliamentary immunity. I know that there may be any Ukrainian citizen in this place who may sooner or later come to Parliament after us. But today we must do what we can with what we have where we are. Glory to Ukraine! Voting for knowledge!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u44	Thank you. I want to point out that if there's a question, you can ask Henprosecutor a question during the speeches, and he will answer in the closing statement. Danilin Vladislav Yuriovich passes the word to Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, today is the time of truth. I represent that part of this Parliament and this vocation that was in the last seventh vocation. I remember sitting here, remembering these 170 members of the united opposition who were doing everything they could to overthrow the Yanukovich regime. And no one then spoke or appealed to opposition, to politicity, no one defended it. I remember being removed from our opposition deputies, who were not even allowed to speak from the rostrum, and no one asked. You didn't say, "Your arguments?" Calmly, the opposition was deliberately killed. So I'm sure today is the moment of truth for our Parliament. In order for us to agree to be held accountable. It's not an arrest, it's just an opportunity for law enforcement authorities to investigate the case. I'm sure there will also be economic crimes. But it's already the honor of the Attorney General's Office to protect the interests of the state. I'm addressing all the colleagues in Parliament, especially those with whom we've stood side by side on Maidan. We must now vote and allow the case to be investigated. Because we all went and said that Midan's cases should be brought to trial, and even then the court should make a decision. So I urge you once again to vote in favour of allowing the Attorney General's Office to finally start investigating the cases. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Wozniak Yuri Volodymyrovich conveys the word of Volodymyr Parasuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u47	Fellow MPs, I'd like you to listen for a moment and understand what's going on. I do not believe that there will be justice over Novinsky, for he has a lot of money. And there's a lot of people in this country who love this money. But this vote is a lacquer paper for all of us. After this vote, we will understand who has the right to walk on the streets of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, who has the right to speak the slogan "Glory to Ukraine!" Yuri Vitaliyovich, don't mess with them. Because when they were in power, they weren't playing with you. They didn't ask your opinion, and they didn't ask you on Maidan, they put up armed guards, their dogs, and they brought war into our country. Keep in mind that they would never feel sorry for you in life, break you up, rape you, and then bury you in the ground, drown you, and sing their Russian song. Remember who this is. This is the fifth pillar of the Kremlin. And we have to keep this in mind every day of God’s life. Yeah, we're not doing so well at home, we're dealing with corruption. We will fight it, but we will communicate in Ukrainian. And we're all in one state, and they're just waiting to come to power and hand us over to Russia. That's why this vote is a lacumus paper. Anyone who doesn't vote "yes" is a traitor, nobody has the right to go out on Midan and say that he was there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Barna Oleg Stepanovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u49	Praise Jesus Christ! You know, when Mr. Novinsky mentioned that the Attorney General's Office is becoming an organ of the NCCD, I would advise him to invite us to Western Ukraine to visit the museum and mention memories of how the encavedists tortured our patriots, Ukrainian citizens, how they cut the breasts of young girls, how they tortured young men who didn't even know how to kiss, how they poured lime and buried them in the middle of the prison yard, because they couldn't be deported before the fascists came to the east. And I see you look cholono, the hair hasn't fallen, all your fingers are intact, so don't mention or compare the encavedists. Because the same descendants of the Yanukovich regime's encavedists killed the boys in Maidan when the brains of the toilet in Yellow were there, and we watched and saw it. We can see how the same pre-Denetic underdogs or Luganic assholes torture our patriotic warriors, and what they did to them, and make them disabled. It's a violation of any international humanitarian law. And we know what that leads to. Therefore, we must now speak of a new Ukraine, Ukraine, where everyone should be equal before the law, Ukraine, where the deputy of the Supreme Council and the ordinary citizen have the same rights and equal obligations to the country when no one has the right to hide behind the backs of their children and the Ukrainian people, covering up the inviolability, especially for their criminal crimes. And first of all, those who stole earlier and continue to decimate, who are involved in the Maydan crimes and who turned the Moscow Church into an ideological car of the Kremlin's fairybeest troll. The Ukrainian people are uniquely Orthodox. The Ukrainian people will be united. And let us not allow any politicians to bring disunity both in our Ukrainian faith and in politics and in our unity. Therefore, the BPT faction urges all to fulfill their promise to the people to remove the inviolability and to be equal before the law. To carry out your duty to the memory of the fallen warriors at Maidan and at the ATO. And fulfill our responsibility to our future and to our children, whom we must leave behind a kind, just, honest, and legitimate Ukraine! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u50	30 seconds, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u51	I urge all MPs to reject political ambitions and to vote down the law by giving our law enforcement system the rule of law, justice and order. In the following, the Attorney General should not go and ask the MPs for the right to investigate crimes. So, MPs, let's just stay human and defensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time to speak from the national deputies is over. I would like to inform you that the final word of the People's Deputy of Novinski, the Attorney General, will now be Lucenka. And we're going to the vote in five minutes. I therefore ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. I ask the heads of factions for my secretaries to invite MPs into the hall. I am convinced that society will study in detail the presence of deputies and who has voted. And that's why I'm warning you in five minutes, there's gonna be a vote. And everyone will be able to invite MPs into the decision-making room. Dear colleagues! I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! All statements by the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u54	I ask you to speak in national language, Mr. Novinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u55	All statements by MPs and factions'leaders are both of the same and show that there is nothing to do with criminal proceedings and that there is nothing to do with jurisprudence. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is an extremely political matter. The charge of financing the Anti-Maidan, the charge of financing the Crusade, the charge of everything is absolutely unproven and groundless. Again, gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] This decision of yours will be absolutely political today. I'll make any decision you make, any vote you make. But listen, don't think about who the bell is, he's calling about you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u56	Once again, I appeal to the National Deputies, reminding them that all speeches should take place in the national language from this rostrum, and I am warning once again that they should abide by the law of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka of Ukraine. And I ask you to answer at the same time the questions that were raised during the performances and the heads of factions and the national deputies. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I will answer the questions that have been asked in the speeches and I am also ready to make a procedural point and to get a question from the point of view if the presiding officer makes the appropriate decision. So I'd like to start with a line that was sounded by a representative of the rebirth group. He said that the GPU should not go into the soul, into the church, and he urged me not to go into church. So I'm going to allow myself to remind myself of the Oberig Clinic, where I performed surgery immediately after I got out of prison. On one floor lay the more blessed Metropolitan Vladimir, whom I knew very well, who was not once in his cell. I have been very fond of this great shepherd, and today I have treated the Ukrainian as the chairman of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, who, for example, by his decision to recognize the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people in Moscow, has shown many devils in Moscow what a real Ukrainian shepherd is. And the second day after the surgery, I visited Metropolitan Vladimir, and these were the last days of his life -- earthly life. We talked to him about a lot (not a public conversation for the Supreme Council). But I can tell you that he was proved not only by his illness but also by the atmosphere that Yanukovich and his satraps created around him. Consider: A seriously ill person who was on the verge of life and death was taken away by the only assistant who had the right to sign for treatment. It was the only person who had been taken from him and placed under a castle with Vladimir suffering without being able to receive proper treatment. And you're telling me not to go to church? I also respect the Church and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. But I don't think it's a church matter, but it's a criminal case for those who have destroyed the UPC's president by criminal means, according to the instructions of criminal smell Janukovic. Sorry, on the second day after the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Novinski was already sitting at the meeting in Yanukovic, and this is what the investigation materials are talking about, and discussed with him a plan to achieve the resignation of Metropolitan Blessed Vladimir. Think about it before you accuse us, the U.S.S.A., of the fact that we seem to have an impact on the church. No! No! The former regions, which are now called by another name, then climbed into the church and wanted to put their hand in place for Yanukovich's convenient foreman, trampling on the Constitution of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which you now seem to be protecting. There's not a word in my speech or in my statement about citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u58	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u59	I apologize, according to the Rules, I have answers to questions for half an hour. There is no reference to citizenship in this account. But Mr. Novinsky wanted to show you the signature of the powder. Yes, that's true. The Minister of Economics has signed the corresponding papers on more than one occasion. Yes, Novinsky accepted Ukrainian citizenship but did not leave the Order’s Russian peace. And so I'll remind him in an accessible language: there, in a distant Russia, they say, "In men, an angel, home, hell." And there's another very beautiful saying in Russia: "Peace, assembly, and the devil." But now let's speak legally. They say today the Party of Regions is about that. A party of regions says it's a special distraction, that it's a violation, that somehow a party of authorities is distracting people. Colleagues, this case was violated according to the statement made by Andriy Derkach, a national MP, in the distant year 2014, when Poroshenko was not even President. So, Mr. Faction Leader, leave these things to me the next time I come. The second question. The radicals who honor me are like old things, including the Medici’s. Yes, the Attorney General's Office has a function of raising suspicion, but we're not NCSCs, and if one display that's on the Medici is no longer being strengthened, I have a duty to the law and my conscience to recall this suspicion. Because we're not going to plant innocent people, I know what that means, and that's why we're not NCS. Your Honor, they're asking, where are the other things in Novinsky? If, honored by me, the MP of the People's Front has such evidence, please come with a statement, I'm ready to accept it. At this point in time, there is only one suspicion about the People's Deputy of Novinski, which I cannot afford without a vote in the Supreme Council. So notice what the Novinsky himself is pedlarizing and protecting, he says that in the suspicions of the Griffonists, Zacharynchenko, there is no mention of his role. Colleagues, I can't do that until you let me bring him to justice. The law forbids me to mention in suspicion, to raise suspicions of anyone other than a witness, an active national MP. That's why we're here today to finally bring up Janukovich, Zacharychenk, Koryatzi, to be mentioned as their aide to the People's Deputy Novinski. And, Your Honor, I can't guarantee you a court decision, I'm a prosecutor, I guarantee a charge, and the court and only the court, not the Supreme Council, not the prosecutor, no one else has to be found guilty or not guilty. And, if he's guilty, how much punishment does he have to pay for it? Once again, we are told that Drabinko voluntarily wrote a request for protection. There's a lot in the hall of people who have or have security, say your security guard closes the door to you and says before you go outside: agree with the Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kiev. Are there any such facts? And the head of the IMF is to reconcile this with the national deputy of the ruling party at the time. Is this a security detail? One hundred and seventy days when the Griffon, instead of guarding, warning of danger, sending a place to move a guard, opens the door for him, and only when the National MP calls out or doesn't release, it's not security. It's called a convoy. It is said that Novinsky is just admitting this fact. Yeah, he called, and he says we got information about his calls illegally. Mr. Vladislav, we are acting exclusively in a legal way, we have Coryak's call monitoring, which was called 40 times by the Novinsky people's deputy. We removed all the calls by law, and that's what we're allowed by the court, Koraks, and it turns out that's when it turns out that you've been working with him all this time. And this, for me, as Henprocuror, has given me reason to ask the investigators why you've been planting Griffon and their supervisor since 2014, but we're not paying any attention to the role of someone who's always agreed to let go or not let go of a detained citizen? And it was these calls that were removed from Korak that became the basis for further investigation, and the witnesses confirmed, yes, that it was Novinsky at a meeting in Lavra, with five persons, two of whom gave these demonstrations, the victim and the witness, that sounded Janukovich’s criminal plan. Another way out, Blazey, who was seriously ill to release your assistant and your secretary, is to resign and assign a pleasant Janukovich to the Metropolitan. And Drabinko himself has to leave the country. This means that these statements of witnesses and victims mean that the criminal plan was and was implemented under the auspices of the Novinsky People's Deputies. Last but not least, I'm ready for any questions. I'm just the Attorney General. The next and procedural supervisor in this case has submitted me with documents insisting that the current law in this crime should be followed by Yanukovic, Zacharychenko, Korak, the head and the staff of the Griffon. And we're going to do it by surprise, and there's someone here in Ukraine. But there is also an accomplice that the prosecutor in charge cannot attract because he has immunity. They can't take him out of the phone, they can't do searches, they can't do other court-sanctioned searches, if that's the case, because he has a special immunity. Novinsky himself says that he is confident that this is a political matter and that there is no evidence. Okay. So why be afraid? Why are you so clingy about this immunity? Go to court! Go to court and let us have an honest, objective and fair trial. And no immunity will cover anyone. You who called Korak and Korak and you have to answer. "The Gryphon," which Korak called, should also answer. And one more thing. He has to answer, after all, Janukovic, who wanted to usurp not only power in Kabmin, not only authority here in the Supreme Council, not only authority throughout Ukraine because of administrative positions, but also church life. I'm sure it's very important to prove to the world, including the world's Orthodoxy, that Yanukovic wanted to usurp the Ukrainian Church. This is unacceptable to anyone. And if we do that, and I believe that we will at least in absentia condemn Yanukovich and his manuals, then no President will go to church, except prayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u60	Thank you. Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I remind you that in the beginning there was time to speak, there were speeches by all factions, by deputies. What the Rules provide has been fully accomplished, and we have now completed our discussions, colleagues. And let's move on to making a decision. I ask you once again to invite all the deputies into the hall, and I ask everyone who is in the towers to come into the hall, and we will now move on to making a decision. And, dear colleagues, I would like to stress that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not a prosecutor's office or a court. If we respect our prosecution and the court, we must give them the opportunity and the right to investigate and the court to decide. So I don't accept the discussion about what we should be thinking here, whether it's my fault or not. There's one institution: the court and the prosecutor's office that decides that. And we, all those who go out on the stage of Maidan and on Maidan, talked about what should be removed intact, today we have our vote to demonstrate the ability and ability of law enforcement authorities to conduct an honest independent investigation. I am convinced that this is the responsibility of every MP. And so, dear colleagues, I very much ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I ask you to enter the hall of those deputies who are in the towers. I'm sure it's a sign and a principle question. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has never failed on such matters, and I believe and believe it will not fail now. Please prepare for the vote. And I, my colleagues, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:54:54]] For 228 Decision taken. I inform the Attorney General of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision and given you the opportunity to form documents before a court. Thank you for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, a 30 - minute recess is announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Congratulations, fellow Members, on your decision! And I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to come to the Supreme Council Hall in a disciplined manner, we're going to move on to budgetary issues, budget consideration. I very much ask everyone to come to the hall with discipline at 12.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Time taken for a break is exhausted. We have extremely important budget bills. So I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. So, colleagues. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market for foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content (No. 5114). To remind you, not long ago we made this decision in our first reading on the protection of Ukrainian books and Ukrainian products. I'm sure it's a matter of principle for all national MPs. And once again, I call upon the factions to invite my colleagues into the hall. Because the right is not much. And we're literally going to move on to making a decision in a short time. So I invite everyone to the hall. And I'm also announcing the move to question 5114. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, dear fellows! For more than 40 minutes, our break is taking place, and I very much ask everyone to return to the Parliamentary Hall. Because the bill that we are about to consider in the second reading, I emphasize, in the second reading, is extremely important in the field of information security. You know, we've passed quite a lot of bills that limit the access of the aggressor nation's information products to Ukraine. First of all, of course, it was about television, it was about TV, it was about TV, it was about movies, and it was about movies, and then it was all about products like the different comedy programs that were removed from part of European production. And now we're talking about printed products. Because you can see so many books in different markets today that are simply celebrated by the Russian Empire, where there are different eagles on the cover. All of this is in no way limited. And even in Lviv, you can find these books that, frankly, not just promote the aggressor state, but impose on us the ideology of the aggressor state. Then I think it's very important. I would very much like not to leave the room right now, but actually those who are patriots of Ukraine, to go into the hall so that we can vote in the second reading a bill that, as far as I am concerned, is one of the most important in the field of information security. So we've got 17 amendments to the bill, which has the title to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market of foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content. The point is that at the Ministry of Culture, an Expert Council will be set up to include recognized experts and authors who will analyse all the circulations that come from the aggressor state of the printed product. And if it contains the promotion of the aggressor state, its authorities, if the authors or someone who produced these books are the people who supported the occupation of Ukraine, of course, such circulation will not be allowed into the territory of Ukraine. As our experience with the television market shows, this is very much a stimulus to Ukrainian production in the first place. We saw how Ukrainian films and shows began to be made. In this case, we expect that this will very seriously stimulate the Ukrainian market for printed products, will become more in the order of Ukrainian books. And of course, this bill essentially supports the Ukrainian publishing industry. We talked to the publishers, they all support the bill. I've already said everything I could say. I very much ask the deputies to return to the hall and be ready to speak as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u63	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, let's go to the right. And once again, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. 2 of the People's Deputy Levchenk's Rules have been rejected. Is it insisting? Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u64	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like not to make my amendment, I'd like to make a 1 amendment, which, unfortunately, has been taken into account by the committee, and it significantly narrows down the law on population issues or propaganda by the aggressor State authorities and their individual actions, which create a positive image of the aggressor State employees, of the Soviet State Security Authority, who, by acquit themselves, recognize the legitimate occupation of the territory of Ukraine. And in the original version, it was very broad, very correct, it included a lot of norms that really have to be banned in printed products in Ukraine. For some reason the amendment was taken into account by the committee and narrows it down considerably. For example, some mention of the employees of the Soviet public security authorities disappeared after the amendment had been made. Other moments have also disappeared. So I'd like to put amendment number one for confirmation, because I'm convinced that the original version of the bill was much better at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u65	This is my amendment, and I have the right to put it on record, as far as I understand the Rules. In the case at hand, the workers of the Soviet public security authorities are involved. That's where the speech goes. The Decommunization Act prohibits all of this and all of this is described. It's like that. In this case, the committee considered this format to be clearer. This is my correction. I can put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u66	Anyone can, Victoria, bet on confirmation. Anyone can actually put a check on confirmation in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u67	Well, you bet your ass it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u68	And that's one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u69	I don't deny it. Stand by for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u70	It's one of the forms of work. I. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 1 of National MP Sumar, the committee supported it, supported it, but National MP Lewchenko demands confirmation. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u71	It's not principled.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u72	Please be prepared. And I remind you, the committee supports it. And I'm asking you to support Amendment 1, back up. Please vote. [[12:42:18]] For-99 99 for. The decision is not made. Yes, the next of the 2 rejected amendments to Lechchenk were rejected. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I'm really sorry that there aren't so many deputies in the session room right now, somewhere who's resting at lunch, somewhere else. Because my amendment, which concerns the prohibition of this law, is not in any way accurate, did not partially prohibit only some books in Russian. In fact, so that we don't have any printed media from the aggressor state in Ukraine, none or none that are printed in the occupied territories. That's logical, that's logical. Because I don't understand why to do these exact moments and try to somehow grab something that's all the more that then the appropriate executive authority will treat: and what falls under the law, and what doesn't. As a result, we will continue to have complete anti - Ukrainian books sold in Ukraine during the war with Russia. So I would still encourage support for my amendment, which concerns that all printed products from the territory of the aggressor State and occupied territories be banned. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u74	Please, Mrs. Victoria, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u75	Colleagues, the committee rejected the amendment solely because it was given from a later term. But I don't mind, I'm ready to support that vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u76	Thank you. So amendment number 2a. It was rejected by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, but the Committee supports the amendment if it is voted on. And so please take part in the vote, and I'm voting on amendment number two of the People's Deputies of Lechchenka. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[12:44:27]] For 135 The decision is not made. It's a 6-mendment. People's deputy to Semimenach. Declined. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u77	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! My amendment 6 as well as the next 7 and 8 says that the amendment proposes to exclude from the bill the rule that conveys to the State Committee television and radio broadcasting the mandate to approve the criteria for the assessment of Russian publishing products. Why is this amendment worth supporting? Colleagues, in my view, who will be banned from importing one or another product, should be clearly defined in the law rather than defined by the executive central authority. So I think it's the right thing to write it in the body of the law, so I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Victoria, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u79	I want to emphasize that we have these criteria in the body of the law, we've been considering your amendments and your lawyer has been, and if you look at them, and he's agreed to the conclusions of the committee during the consideration of this. Because what you write as criteria is in the body of the law from the beginning of the chapter. So this is just not a complete story here, this is not a story. And the central organ for "Derzhcomteleradio" is obviously a function that should be an authorized authority to define such things. But we have foreseen an expert board, which is to be composed of publishers, Ukrainian publishers and experts, media experts, to make it impossible for corruption to be associated with government structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u80	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? He insists. Thus, honourable fellow Members, the amendment 6 of the People’s Deputies of Semimenach is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:46:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. The 7th Amendment of Simeoniah was rejected. Don't insist on 7 amendments. The 8th Amendment of Simeoniah was also rejected. Don't insist. He insists. The 8th doesn't insist, insists on the 9th. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u81	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a problem that, unfortunately, is not regulated by a bill prepared by the committee for second reading. This criticism also sounded during the first reading of the bill. This is about the fact that today the law does not solve the issues at all when a book of openly anti-Ukrainian, pro-Russian content can be produced, for example, in Belarus or in any other country, not an aggressor state, and unhinderedly imported into Ukraine, and distributed in Ukraine. Sadly, then, the law is only half the size of the law and will not be fully operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u83	This is not true because the body of the law clearly states that the central executive authority, which provides and forms, implements public policy, cancels permission on such grounds. And it doesn't matter where this book came from, so. And your amendment to the "discovery of the circumstances provided for in part 9 of this article," or those criteria that you're talking about, is not at all about this in this case. I propose to abstain from voting for this amendment. Is
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u84	Thank you. You insist on voting:? There is no insistence on the vote on the ninth amendment. 11th, accounted for. 13th, People's Deputy Levchenko, dismissed. Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u85	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, this amendment of mine refers to the same amendment of the last one I spoke about. Unfortunately, I regret that the reporter is involved in such manipulations, and I hope it's not her fault, maybe it's the committee's apparatus's fault. My amendments were made on time, I have confirmation accordingly, confirmation with registration numbers and with the registration date of the Supreme Council expedition, that they were submitted under the Rules. So it's very strange, in the paws, that the committee took advantage of a made-up, absolutely procedural moment so that somehow it wouldn't accidentally accept the amendment that applies to the total ban on printed media in the aggressor country. Such strange coincidences, such as this. I insist once again on an appropriate amendment, I believe that in times of war we should be banned from any books, or other printed products from the aggressor state, or from occupied territories. It's the only way we can really win this war, because it's not only on the front, it's also on people's heads. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u86	I'll deal with the committee, we'll check with you all these procedural nuances, of course, no questions asked. By the way, we also had nuances in Semens, which revealed that the amendments were made in time. I support the position of Deputy Yuri Lewchenk, and in this case I propose to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Thus, honourable colleagues, amendment No. 13 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, the committee supports it and calls on the national deputies to support the amendment. So please prepare for the vote and I'm putting to the vote amendment number 13 of People's Deputies Lechchenka, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u88	I propose to vote yes. Because it was rejected for procedural reasons rather than ideological reasons. [[12:50:17]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Next up is the 16th National Deputy of Seminukh. 16th, no insistence. Colleagues, we've got two adjustments left. So I'm asking you again to invite all the national deputies into the hall in a few minutes we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies to participate in the meeting. So 17 amendments, Semimenach insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to another potential problem that, by adopting it, a new law can create. The point is that the Transitions are so clear and not settled, and that's exactly what's going to happen today with the books that have already been delivered to the territory of Ukraine. Of course, on the bookshelves today, we can see an incredible number of books openly anti - Ukrainian texts of a pro-Russian nature. And certainly this law partially solves this problem, but there are books of a completely different nature. For example, children’s literature, artistic literature, scientific, technical, and the literature of the world’s authors, which has been translated into Russian, has been produced and imported into Ukraine. Banally, the book of Gogol, which was produced in Russia and imported to Ukraine, about such publications, is completely out of order. And this could create pressure on business, it could actually lead to a collapse for a certain period of time in the industry. So I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to hear this and settle it so that, in the defense of God, this leads to pressure on business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u91	That's exactly why we rejected your amendment. Allow me to have the appropriate acts prepared within the month and leave the deadline for three months, because, in fact, many publishers have already brought these books and are busy or they will smoke them, or what they will do with them, or how they will take them into them. This is also unclear. This can only be done by the acts of Kabmin, so we left them with three months to discard your amendment. That's right. But in order to implement these procedures, the term is a month, and we realize that when New Year's Day is here, it's small enough. So we left for three months. Actually, colleagues, we're here. All the amendments have been made, and we are ideologically, I think, with the authors of all the amendments we agree with both Yuri Lewchenk and Mr. Semimenah. I'm just asking the faction leaders very much right now that we're behind political passions and these, that's all. What we discussed here in the first half of the day -- "charts, bells, churches" -- did not miss an extremely important law that would have a very practical application.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u92	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u93	which will apply to each of us and which, in the first place, will apply to our children. Let's take care of the Ukrainian book today, because it's not just a ban on the aggressor state, it's actually support and a Ukrainian book, first of all. Please return to the hall now and do not fail this law. It's a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Are you insisting on the 17th amendment to the vote? Mr. Semenho! Mr. Semenho, talk to me. Thank you. You don't insist on the 17th. At the 18th Amendment? Don't insist. Thank you. We discussed all the amendments, the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I'll give you one more minute. Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, author of the Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenkovi bill. Please, one minute. Turn on the microphone. And I'm sorry, and in a minute we're going to vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And please invite everyone into the hall. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! It's a government bill, we introduced it a few months ago, you approved it on the first reading, we worked very fruitfully with the profile committee led by Victoria Sumar. All the constructive proposals are taken into account, well, within those discussions that took place on the profile committee. And so on behalf of the government, I'm asking you to support this bill, because it's important for several reasons. First, it protects the Ukrainian book market. Second, he cuts off all the travel propaganda literature that has so far freely entered our Ukrainian book market. Thirdly, the law only applies to the aggressor country, which is the Russian Federation. Fourthly, it has a temporary effect, there will be a normalized relationship, a restored territorial integrity, then the need for such a law may fall away. Fifthly, the granting of permits will take place quickly and democratically. The expert commission will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u96	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u97	The expert commission, which will be created by the relevant central executive authority, will have only 10 days to grant permission. This permit will be granted free of charge to business entities. Well, and certainly for the putinian propagandists and their supporters in Ukraine, I will say in advance, this law has nothing to do with the Russian - speaking book published in Ukraine. It only applies to books.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this law on security, the sphere of information security, which, to my deep conviction, is as important to Ukraine as military security during Russian aggression. I therefore ask all the national MPs with great responsibility to come to this vote. It's not just support for the Ukrainian book, it's a way to make it impossible for an aggressor to attack the Ukrainians, our citizens. So this question is of great importance. I urge everyone outside the hall to now enter the hall and prepare for the vote. I would like to point out that I will put on return, hoping that the votes will be sufficient to make a decision. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. One minute, Victoria Sumar, and we're moving on to a decision. Turn on the microphone. One minute, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u99	I've just seen that even some faction leaders aren't all here. It's really an important bill. Colleagues, Sergey Ruddick just got out, man from Liberty, out of the hall. Well, you can't walk out of the hall at a time like this when you have to come in. Andrew Ivanchuk, I very much ask that the People's Front faction be mobilized as well. Alexander Shevchenko, you are the men of the Outlander, of Colossae! Well, I'm asking you to support the Ukrainian book at last! Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u100	So let's move on to the decision-making process. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market for foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content (No. 5114) as proposed by the Committee on second reading and as a whole. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to vote. And I ask you to uphold this law as a protection of our country's information security. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote, please support. We will maintain Ukrainian language and Ukrainian security. [[12:59:25]] For 217 217 for. We'll wait. Please. Please come into the hall. The name Rudik was mentioned. One minute of replication. And I'm going to ask you to invite the deputies into the hall, and I'm now going to make an offer to go back to the question. Please, Ruddick, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Sergey Rudik, national deputy, bold constituency, Peter Dustenka Block. I'm in favour of all hands and I've just voted for it. Therefore, I ask that you treat the people’s deputies more correctly. I've always been behind things like this -- for stimulating the Ukrainian bookstore, I've always been against strengthening our space with Russian-speaking and foreign-world things that undermine the security of our nation. Please take a closer look at your speaker function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u102	I will remind you that your name was mentioned during the discussion. And it was mentioned with the invitation to enter the hall, with the invitation to enter the hall as well as other national deputies. And now I'm going to read from the factions, "Peter Poshenko's Block" -- 91, "The People's Front" -- 61, "The Opposition Block" -- 0, "The Self-Help" -- 19, "The Father's Party" -- 11, "The Radical Party -- 11, "The Rebirth Party" -- 1, "The Will of the People" -- 1, "The Will of the People" -- "the Non-Factional" -- 22. My colleagues, I hope everyone understands the importance of this issue. They invited MPs into the hall. I'm going to put the vote back. And I'm very much asking you to come into the Hall of All People's Deputies. Take up jobs and get ready for the vote. I'm counting on more votes each faction will give than we now see on the board. Colleagues, please prepare to make your decision. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market of foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content No. 5114 on return. Please be careful, colleagues, to vote. Please support the issue of information security. Please vote, please support. Please be careful! Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:01:55]] For 221 Five votes missing. And I'll be waiting for five votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u103	I'll give you a line, I'll give you a line, okay? Colleagues, pay attention! First of all, I invite everyone into the hall, heads of factions to mobilize. Now, in view of what we're about to wait for a minute or two, there are two requirements for replication. And I'll give Savchenko, Krivenko one minute at a time. First Savechenko a minute. Then Krivenko one minute. And Lozova's one minute. Yes, and Easy. Three lines per minute while the MPs are being gathered. At that time, I call the heads of factions to call, invite deputies to the hall, and please, Nadia Saucenko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u104	In addition to the call to the National Deputies, come into the Hall, we have to vote, hear it at last! I want to go to the Environment. Understand: This is not about classical Russian literature, which no one in Ukraine will squeeze out, as it is from all over the world. We've read and we'll read Bulgakov, Turgeneva, Tolstoy, they stay on the library shelves. It's about propaganda. It's not books, it's not literature. It's garbage in people's heads. They're killing the Russians with this garbage and killing them now to the Ukrainians in Crimea, in Donbas, and they want to kill them in Kiev, in Ternopol, in Lviv. Let's vote for this law because it doesn't prohibit publishing in Russian, it's not a humiliation of Russian language, we may have Russian-speaking books in Ukraine, good, talkative, intelligent content. He forbids polluting our book markets with shit that's now connected to Russia. The law is written in such a way that it protects both the manufacturer and our Ukrainian dignity. Please vote in favour of this law, the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u105	Thank you. Krivenko, one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u106	Victor Krivenko, deputy head of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in Russia bookkeeping is being stimulated by the right mechanisms that we too need to use in our country. Russia limits dozens of our commodity positions, limits our transit, we can't even go through our markets in Kazakhstan, and we can't go east. So I think it was a very faithful amendment to Collegiate Lechchenk's 2nd amendment. I'm asking you to go back to her to ban the import of printed literature from the Russian Federation at all. This is the position of the National Movement of Ukraine. And it's very important to us that our bookstores develop. These are jobs in Ukraine. These books will be printed, even published by the Russian Federation’s origins and registrations. But in order for them to print in Ukrainian printing, in Ukrainian printing, they paid taxes in the Ukrainian budget. So, colleagues, I call on all of us, we have actually got a bit of an impact right now. Vote a bill that takes into account Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u107	Last line, 1 minute Easy and go to the vote. Please, you're too thin. Single, one minute, and I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u108	Andrew Lozový, Radical Party of Nutcrackers. A nation that doesn't care about the country's bookstore, to protect its information space, especially from information aggression, then it pays a very expensive price. I'm absolutely certain that for any thinking person in this room, you don't have to explain that this law is necessary. And, dear fellows, get out of the towers, out of the buffets, and God knows where else to get people to vote for this law. But now we are witnessing some media manipulation: it is as if one person in the Radical Party does not vote in favour of this law. Because somehow the Supreme Council's apparatus is kind of as a member of our faction purchased by Onoshchenko as a running corpse by Artem Witka, who's sitting in the BP sector, who's writing an application for an exit from the Radical Party faction, and he's disguising the name of our team by mentioning this political prostitute. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please give the command to clean this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u109	So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask you to carefully enter the hall, take up jobs, and we're short five votes. Prepared, yeah, can I bet? Please, colleagues, be careful. I see enough deputies have gone by. I'll bet. Please take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for draft Law 5114 concerning restrictions on access to the Ukrainian market for foreign printed products of anti-Ukrainian content. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:07:09]] For 234 Decision taken. And we're moving on to making a decision, we're back. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of access to the Ukrainian market for foreign products of anti-Ukrainian content (No.5114) in the second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support, please vote, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. [[13:07:50]] For 237 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the government. This is an important information security law and it is very important that the Supreme Council has been able to adopt it. Colleagues, let's move on to the budget. Important issues without which a full budget cannot be formed for the second reading are Bills 5368 and 5369. Let's go to Bill 5368. And I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please consider the simplified procedure, please vote. [[13:08:47]] For-161 And I invite you to the Minister of Finance's report. I invite the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee first. The Minister has arrived, and I invite you to report to the Minister of Finance, Daniluk Alexandre Alexandrovich. Please have three minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u110	Hello, everyone! Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Many in this room have claimed a willingness to promote business. The vast majority declared their intention to reduce corruption. On the eve of International Anti-Corruption Day, you have the opportunity to confirm these statements to your voters and to all businesses operating in Ukraine. The anti-corruption bill 5368 is not a cosmetic reform, it is a solution to major business problems and it is a statement of business itself. All the major business associations, business outlets and public experts have repeatedly expressed their support for the bill, this is an unprecedented case. The anti-corruption bill is the foundation of the DFS reform. The bill deprives the DFS of basic tools for systemic corruption and reduces the pressure on business, it greatly simplifies tax administration and makes it more transparent, now running business and paying taxes becomes easier. This is the result of months of joint business, of public experts, of the Supreme Council and of the Ministry of Finance, of a bill supported by the Government and the National Reform Board. Now the question behind you is the question behind Parliament. Business believed that the authorities were willing to change and be open, not to lose the chance to maintain that trust. A little bit of change. It's part of the administration. The first is databases, it's one of the main tools for corruption. There is currently no external control or monitoring of databases, we suggest third-party control, Minfin will administer DFS databases, manipulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u111	Please, one minute. How long does it take? Let's finish the minister for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u112	We enter a full-fledged tax payer's office, the payer reduces tax revenues, reduces human factor, thereby reducing opportunities for corruption. A single register of tax advice will be introduced on the DFS website. Income tax. We're running tax breaks for small businesses, small businesses don't have to pay taxes for five years. Tax on added value. The big problem that we have right now is paying off VAT. Thus, Bill 5368 provides for the introduction of a single public register instead of two. We're improving the VAT electronic administration system, we're allowing you to defuse tax payers' costs on accounts in this system. Now the VAT compensation is really going to be completely automatic. We're simplifying business for private entrepreneurs on a common system with an annual income of up to 4,000 IDPs -- that's a change in the portion of the IDP. Are these changes sufficient to make Ukraine a new Singapore? Hardly. But that's enough to bring about a major blow in systemic corruption in the tax administration system and create normal conditions for business development. This is accepted by all the major 15 associations, business associations, this is the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association and so on, national as well. The whole business is waiting for this law and supporting it, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Aleksandrovich, for a thorough, meaningful report. I now invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southerne Nina Petrovna to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, carrying out successful tax reform is one of the main tasks of the Parliament of our vocation and the government. We need to make the tax system simple, neutral, unbiased, fair, complex, efficient, predictable. Together with you, dear colleagues, we have introduced a bill to Parliament at the end of 2015 to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code (registration number 3357) aimed at building a liberal, modern tax reform in Ukraine. We are now faced with a practical task of adopting the Government’s draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Investment Climate in Ukraine (registration number 5368). The project was part of the proposal for a tax liberalisation bill, including with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies. Without intending to repeat everything the reporter has said, I would like to point out that in general this bill provides for a large number of rules to simplify tax administrations. The adoption and implementation of the bill will facilitate the simplification of business conditions, the reduction of corruption schemes and practices in the administration of taxes and assemblies, the elimination of disagreements, the creation of a favourable tax environment. As a result of the proposals made in the committee of working groups, there are proposals for a comprehensive solution to the harmonization of the proposed legislative money. There was a huge amount of work done, and as a result of a lot of complicated and violent discussions, we came up with a compromise and a harmonized version of additional proposals. These proposals need to be included in the drafts of the bill and consideration. Suggestions, as well as a table for you, honourable colleagues, are posted on the official website of Parliament. The proposals apply to a wide range of tax standards, if necessary I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u115	You know that's an important question, so with your permission, I'll add two more minutes to the committee's head for the report. Is there no objection? None. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u116	The proposals apply to a wide range of tax standards, if necessary, I can explain. In addition, I would like to ask you to add some more details from the voice for the shorthand, which should be included in the project. Offer one. In order to prevent unjustified increases in fines due to an increase in the minimum wage in paragraph 15 of the Committee's proposal for changes to article 120, replace the words "minimum wage set" with "profit minimum for a working person established". In order to reconcile the standards of paragraphs 167.5.1.1 and 167.5.2., paragraph 20 of the Committee's proposal to amend article 165, add the words "in the form of share dividends and/or share dividends" to the new sub-paragraph in paragraph 167.5.1. Third. In order to technically clarify the standard in paragraph 3 of Subparagraph 3, paragraph 27 of the Committee's proposal for changes to paragraph 201.16., the words “registration of the tax overhead/calculation of the adjustment in the Single Register of Tax Letters in the order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers may be stopped in the absence of such tax overhead/calculation of the adjustment of the pool of risk assessment criteria” shall be replaced by the words “registration of the tax overhead/correction of the adjustment criteria in the Single Register of Tax Notes may be stopped in the order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine if such tax overhead/calculation of the collection of the criteria for the assessment of the degree of risk”. Four. With a view to a comprehensive settlement of the State support for children and sports establishments in part of the exemption from property and land taxes in sub-paragraph 29 of the Committee's proposals, the first sentence of paragraph 3 should be made in the following wording: "Objects of non-living property of state and municipal sanatoriums and facilities for the recovery and rest of children, as well as children's sanatoriums and facilities for the recovery and rest of children on the balance of enterprises, institutions and organizations that are not profitable and introduced by the controlling body to the Register of Non-profits."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u117	Let me finish. Allow the committee's head to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u118	In paragraph 30 of the Committee's proposal to amend article 282, paragraph 3, the following paragraph reads: "The state and municipal sanatoriums and health care and rest facilities, as well as the children's sanatorium and health facilities of Ukraine, which are on the balance of enterprises, institutions and organizations that are not profitable and introduced by the monitoring body to the Register of Non-profit Institutions and Organizations." Fifth. For technical clarification in paragraph 6 of paragraph 31 of the Committee's proposals for changes to sub-paragraph 288.5. 4, the words "which have gained proper status on the basis of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" are replaced by the words "which are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Six. In paragraph thirty-second sub-paragraph 5, paragraph 32, of the Committee's proposals for changes to Chapter 20, Sub-section 10, "Transitional positions", the words "lead or. "exclusion. Seven. In paragraph 38.1 of subsection 10, "Other transitional positions", conduct technical legal processing of the definition of areas in which the proposals of the committee are essentially relevant. To supplement paragraph 38.11 with the following sentence: "In the tax periods indicated in the report, the amount of tax liabilities declared in the tax returns cannot be reviewed by increasing the value of the tax revenue tax object declared in the tax declarations for the tax periods indicated, by increasing the amount of tax compensation for the added value claimed in the tax declarations for the given reporting periods. The committee decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a government bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine) (registration number 5368) to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the committee's proposals. Please support this decision by taking into account the additional clarifications I have expressed in my voice. In the event of adoption, I request the commission of the committee and the Chief Legal Authority to conduct a technical and legal review of the adopted text of the law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in this vote. And what your proposals will be, everything will be fine -- today we have to vote on this bill, because it's unique to our country. This is probably the first time we're going to make tax changes that take away tax relations between the payer and the controlling authority in general. Notice, there are some points that may not quite have worked out the concept of tax blocking. But all the broad discussions in the tax committee led us to find a compromise solution. And I think it's the only chance to keep all the revenue in the budget, not be able to create a fictitious VAT, not be able to continue killing businesses for having a fictitious so-called tax credit in their chain. Therefore, with great responsibility to you, with great responsibility, our entire tax committee asks you to vote and make such a responsible decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, please. He's handing it over to Oleg Lashkov. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u120	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I think there must be one simple truth for each of you: economic growth, new jobs, overcoming unemployment -- that's the job and the goal that everyone in this Parliament is going to want. It's a policy and a program of the Radical Party. Every Ukrainian must have a job, a decent salary, a decent pension, and the opportunity to feed his children. It's just the policy of economic nationalism, the policy of supporting a national producer, whether it's the famous miners or the famous metallurgists or the hardworking farmers or the hospitals or the teachers or the builders or any other category of workers, that each of them has the morning to go home with confidence, knowing he has the job, the opportunity to make a living, and the evening with the happy mood and face to return home. And when this man, a man, a worker, or a woman, comes home to have money in their pocket, money so they can go to the store, buy candy for the kids, buy everything they need, and so that pensioners can go to the pharmacy and buy drugs for the pressure and the headache when they see what's going on in our home country. Therefore, the objective of the Radical Party is economic growth, the creation of new jobs, the overcoming of Ukrainian unemployment. And we will do everything we can to achieve this goal, so that every Ukrainian has a job, a salary, and a bright future associated with the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u121	Kishkar gives the word to Anatoly Matviyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Life requires us to think, not only about how to spend money, but how we can budget them as much as possible. Because all we can spend is what we earn. Therefore, our faction strongly supports the adoption of this bill as a basis and in the first reading of the amendments of the Southern Nina Petrovna, who declared them. Moreover, we realize that this is just the first step towards tax liberalisation, which will remove tax burdens. Set the transparent tax administration rules. And we need to understand whether we need a share of the tax, but the amount of the tax, and we need to increase the revenue. So we propose to support this bill. But I have another question for you, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Mr. Speaker, since this is a budget issue, we voted on Bill 5131 the other day. A committee was voted in favour of agreeing on the positions of the committee that were agreed upon by the government. Unfortunately, in the transcript, when you put it, you, well, made it very vaguely. That's why we wanted you to make a statement under the transcript that we passed Bill 5131 in a committee that was agreed upon in the first reading that was in line with the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u123	Mr. Anatoly, chairman of the committee, reported on the proposal for a committee. And I can repeat it for the transcript. That on December 6, following the consideration of Bill 5131, a vote was put to the vote on the proposal to adopt it as a basis, taking into account the Committee's conclusion and preparing such a bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. That was the vote. And so it was said, with the committee's proposals. That was the sound of the committee head. Yegor was killed by the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! We are now voting for changes to the Tax Code, which we have really worked on for a very long time. And most of the parliamentary bill, which you are co-authors, 3357, came into this very government bill. Today my colleagues ask me what is good for business in this bill. I want you all to listen carefully right now. It's also the introduction of a full electronic tax payer's office, where the entire contact of the taxpayer will be limited to electronic communication and the ability to get any help from your computer, not to stand in line for tax inspections. This is also an open register of claims of frustration and suspension of financial obligations or tax debts. This is really a step towards transparency when each of us is able to see why Kranafti or Oneshchenka's enterprises have been granted a suspension of their tax debt, and the ordinary enterprise is already in debt and tax. That's other things. For example, it's transferring the verification level from the district inspections to the district level. That is, circuit tax collectors will stop walking and terrorizing business with their own checks. If the fiscal service is a service, it will take care of people's services and services. Businesses in the general system are actually given the right to reflect economic costs: that and taxes, that's the EU, that's the licenses. On VAT. This is finally the introduction of the single register of public applications for VAT compensation with the only principle: the Chronology of Compensation. These are the other things that are put in there. But given the lack of time, I want to point out the position of our faction. We are prepared to support this bill, but we demand that in section 38 where the regulation of taxation in the ATO area is concerned, the definition of "occupied areas" should be correctly formulated, namely, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be bound to the recognition of certain areas, cities, villages and villages in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas as temporarily occupied areas. With all due respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u125	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u126	Just considering what the transcript says is that the formulation of "occupied territories" will be linked to a reference to the Supreme Council ruling that we voted for with you in our own time, we are ready to support this bill. Because it's really the first step towards reform, it's without lower rates, but at least it's a restriction on fiscal service authority and the first steps up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Nechayev Alexander Igorovich is handing over Dobrenkov from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, without exaggeration, I can say that this bill is really a very fundamental step towards reforming our country's tax industry. Perhaps after the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, that's the second step we've taken here. We join this step by adopting the bill. The Opposition Block faction has taken an active part in the development of both Bill 3357 and 5368, which will now be voted on. The Opposition Block also supports the idea of creating a Service Tax Service, which will be excluded from the function of tax checks at the lower levels. The Opposition Block supports the idea of eliminating the Tax Police. The Opposition Block supports the idea of impossibility to terminate the electronic tax recognition contract in a timely manner, thereby narrowing the abuse and authority of the controlling authorities. The Opposition Block faction, of course, will support the idea of tax credit protection, which is confirmed by a tax note and registered in the Single Register of Tax Letters. We're behind the idea of creating an electronic tax office. We're for creating a narrow sphere of tax control for transfer pricing. And of course, we're in favour of resolving the issues that arise in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation to support those enterprises that have changed their legal address to another Ukrainian territory. Of course, we support the idea of creating a single treasury account. It is the duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to simplify the procedure for paying tax duties. And we also support the idea of capital output, thereby reducing the tax burden on taxpayers. Dear colleagues, without exaggeration, I can say that there are a lot of progressive ideas that need to be supported now and voted in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u129	Thank you, colleagues. Not all the factions have come forward yet, many are willing to speak. I'll give it to you, but limit it. Sergey from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! I now have five reasons why this law cannot be voted for. A very beautiful name for the law, the minister of finance, and I'm going to lean on the head and head of the committee. But let's start with the first one. Please tell me, at what rate do we have employees tax? If we take everything together -- almost 40 percent. And at what rate do we continue to tax dividends? You decided to make a gift: half of the PDF is 9 percent. So to whom do you make this gift, for millionaires and billionaires? It won't work. The other one. Please tell us how you settle the issues of those who speculate on the external market with the bonds of the internal loan, those who buy them in the secondary market will have the right to present them to the State of Ukraine without taxes. Is that what you want to do? Third. Please tell me why you're doing in this law, under a very beautiful name, the actual situation where you're increasing for the village, first of all, the VAT that they're now going to be in full volume, stretched out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u131	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u132	Reparation. And secondly, do you increase your land salary twice as much? So I don't think that's where you're looking for income. When Pizenik was the minister of finance, he immediately suggested how to find income, not from those who cannot pay, but from those who really hide it. That's why our faction won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u133	Thank you. I see, yes. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute. Colleagues, let's make an immediate deal: Pinzenik, from the non-fractional Levchenko, Georges, Cobts. Colleagues, that's enough. Oh, no? No, it's not. Okay. And I'll give you my word. Five performances and all, colleagues. This is a comprehensive list: After one minute, five men. I'm asking you very much. Okay? No more, we don't. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u134	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! What are we looking at right now? The government passed a bill of law 5368, we were given other materials, we were given a document with a comparison table of 75 pages. Did the first reading of this law take place? Who took away who broke the law, who deprived the MPs of the right to apply? On what basis did the committee provide a comparative table of 75 pages? This is the formal side of the case that I want to take up. But what makes me the most indignant and observant? This law has set out a standard that allows some to open shops without VAT, all to sell VAT, and there are chosen ones that are allowed to sell goods to individuals without VAT in the regime of so - called customs zones. Do we not understand what this is about? The language goes, I can't understand how one cancels on this background.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u135	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u136	Taxes and benefits are being abolished, including in villages, and the possibility of monopolies is being introduced. A group of national deputies signed a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council, and we demand that the draft law of the government be based on a 75-page committee, not a committee. I insist on compliance with the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u137	Please, one minute, Lechchenko, then Giour, Lehchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u138	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I would like to fully support what was said by Mr. Sergei Sobolev and Mr. Pinzenic, the things that were said about this bill were absolutely right. And I am now officially calling on the chairman to put to the vote only the project that has been officially distributed and is on the Supreme Council's website, as provided by the Rules, without any tables that are huge. And secondly, I'm pointing out to the whole room that, in the very nice words that are in this bill, there's really a lot of progressive norms, and I agree with that, but in some ways, there's a very small problem in the first place, namely, the facilitation of transport pricing mechanisms, where the level of controlled operations is rising, and you're making it even easier to get money out of Ukraine into offshore areas, even easier than it is now. It's not being controlled right now, and you're making it easier, and somehow it's kind of creeping into this very progressive bill. You can't vote for him with such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u139	Hurry for one minute, please. Get the Cobbs ready, get the Cobbs ready, then the Chicken. Please, one minute, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u140	Comrades, good afternoon. A lot of good words are said about this bill -- it's a really important institutional reform of the fiscal service. But please tell me, who's going to introduce her? Nasirov? Bilan? Who abuse VAT compensation, who wash money out of business, who walk in on dozens of people in masks to international investors, and then come out and say, sorry, we just came in to get a little bit of paperwork. These people will not be able to bring about reform. Two months ago, the Self-Help faction appealed to the Prime Minister for the resignation of Nasirov and his deputies. Two months later, no response. The Ministry of Finance, I'm told, has made proposals to the government regarding. The charges are incontrovertible, we ask for a service investigation. The government didn't manage to do that. So I have a request for you, if you're really protecting the Ukrainian business, we've prepared a Supreme Council decision to recognize the work of the head of the Fiscal Service and its deputies as unsatisfactory and discharge from positions. A request that we really protect the business, sign it, and express the position of the Supreme Council on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u141	30 seconds to complete, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u142	Because people who have no right have no conscience have no value in protecting the Ukrainian business, they have to leave the office. We've launched a platform called Stop-bastards.com that every entrepreneur can turn to and submit their evidence of tax abuse and we're ready to respond to it. Four criminal acts against Mr. Nasirov have been violated as we speak today. Please, we have to free the business of this fair and, indeed, carry out institutional reform. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u143	Kobtsev Mikhailo Valentinovich, from the spot, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I call on you to vote in favour of this law, and the committee has worked very closely with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance for two weeks. And to vote for it on the basis and, as we have discussed and in general, it is only because databases are transmitted from all the unloved DFS to the Ministry of Finance. Only because serious progressive norms are being introduced that we can fight against this extremely accommodating “disturbation”. After all, we must, on the one hand, free the business, on the other hand, give normal competition, and allow taxes to be paid normally in our budget and raise both defence and pay teachers, pensioners and others. Please vote for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u145	Thank you. Chicken Maxim Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I understand that there are MPs in this room, for whom the worse the situation in the country is, the better for their ratings. Shame on the politicians! Dear friends! I want to say with great responsibility that this bill is a premeditated recipe for the Ukrainian economic miracle. The bill is called upon to bring 50 percent of the economy that is now in the shadows into clean water. This law awaits business: medium, small. This law awaits Ukrainian society. The bill provides opportunities to abolish possible abuses and thefts of government taxes, such as value added taxes. And I understand that those people's deputies who now seem to care about some kind of tax pressure, they're just, like, standing up for the preservation of these important thefts. Friends, have a conscience! Stop robbing the state! Dear colleagues! The one who doesn't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u147	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u148	Anyone who does not vote in favour of this bill continues to dream of profiting from national property. That's enough! Have a conscience! We're voting "yes" with the committee's proposals. Business, society, and economically good depends on the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in a moment we will move on to making a decision. So I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies and the Supreme Council's apparatus and the factions' heads to invite all the deputies in the room. Now, one minute to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovni, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Honorable members of the Fatherland faction, with great respect for you. But many of your standards and initiatives, which have been presented in individual bills, are included in this bill. This is the first time. This applies to all factions. This is the first time I've ever made our minds up in a single bill. As for the question of the discount on dividends, I know you've always taken care of this issue. Let me explain. During 2015 - 2016, 80 million dividends were paid to Ukraine’s budget. In the previous year, even in 2014, there were 10 billion. Let's learn to step back because we've lost 10 billion revenue. Understand! That is the main reason. And we didn't make 5 percent. 9 is an acceptable rate, because it's a cost that's already been taxed on 18 percent of the income. That's the only way to make it 9. That's an extra 18 plus 9. And I want to say why you think that the committee's proposals are, I want to let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u151	Please, how much longer? 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u152	In accordance with the Supreme Council's Rules of Work, all work on drafts should take place on committees. As never before, we worked on these standards for two months at 12 hours a day. There are so many issues. No tax reform can contain only satisfactory standards. Indeed, there is, for example, I already told you, after blocking tax breaks. We found as much compromise as we could to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u153	Please, more. How long does it take, Nina Petrovna? 30 seconds. Please, this is the last line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u154	Last thing I'm saying is, look who's out there. These are those who work and profit from a fictitious tax credit. Don't you want to stop this raid? Look who's gone! They came out of the hall in a demonstration. It seems to me that if we make such changes, Nasirova will have nothing to do there. You can get him out of the DFS, you can get him through the mechanisms, you can get him out of the DFS, you can understand that. So let us support what we have done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u155	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. I'll just lay the groundwork. But I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, prepare for making decisions, colleagues. Please come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine) (number 5368) as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. I ask you to vote, please support. [[Noise Nodes]] On the basis of this, please vote. [[13:45:49]] For 241 Decision taken, colleagues. Now, colleagues, it's very important: a reduced procedure for second reading. Colleagues, a reduced procedure for consideration of second reading. I'm asking you to focus, don't break up, colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal. Don't leave, colleagues. I'm asking you. What are you doing? [[Noise Nodes]] It will be now, but we must have every law. Don't beat me up, do your job, please. So, the simplified procedure for consideration of second reading 5368, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please support me. [[13:46:40]] For 233 Decision taken. And, colleagues, another budget law is 5369.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u156	That's the basis, isn't it? There was a foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u157	[[From the Hall]] Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u158	Let's go. 5368. [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine. And, colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. 5369, with a reduced procedure, please vote. Please. [[13:47:27]] For 169 169 for. I invite you to the report of Finance Minister Daniluk Alexandre Alexandrovich. Please report. Daniluk Alexander Alexandrovich. Please report. Allow the minister to speak, please. Alexander Alexanderovich! Please, Levchenko, allow the minister to speak. Please, Daniluk Alexander Alexandrovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, thank you for the support of Law 5368. This is a very important step towards systemic reform of the DFS. The related bill 5369 is a change to the Customs Code, which is part of the anti-corruption package and tax changes, which is part of the system reform of the DFS. He proposes to create independent conditions for the development of IT systems in the customs field, introduces new IT services, makes unauthorized changes in systems and prejudices the distribution of confidential information. The bill provides for the transfer of IT systems from the State Fiscal Service to the administration of the Ministry of Finance in such a way that further monitoring and administration is carried out by the Ministry and the use of databases by the State Fiscal Service. This eliminates the corruption risks of working with IT systems such as changing, adding or removing customs information or unsanctioned distribution of that information. In addition, a centralized transfer of customs bases to the Ministry of Finance, along with taxes, will create the right conditions for the development of IT systems infrastructure and technology. In conjunction with other draft laws to be considered today, this bill is a very important law. He will allow the period of the ATO to release from the payment of import duties the Kevlar thread for making helmets that will make it easier to make helmets for our military. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor! Now the word for the Bill 5369 co-report is given to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Nina Jujanini. And I would also like to point out, fellow honourable Members, that Bill 5368, which we voted only on the first reading, was voted on the basis of the committee's rights. And this was sounded by the Head of the Supreme Council. He'll be back in five minutes to confirm that Bill 5368 was voting on the committee's rights. Please, Mrs. Nina, 5369. Please come forward, Mrs. Nina. Mrs. Nina, 5369, please. Can I make an announcement now? 5369 Mrs. Jujanina is reporting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Let's finish with the Bill 5369 and then go back to 5368. So that we can find out what happened to each other. We voted on the basis of committee proposals or no committee proposals. So now we're going to end up with 5369. The main purpose of the bill is to transfer information, telecommunications and information telecommunications systems and their means of providing them, developed, produced or acquired by the authorities and congregations to the administration of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. In order to achieve this goal, the project provides for the introduction of part four of article 31 of the Ukrainian Customs Code in a new edition. The project is also intended to specify in section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code of Ukraine, according to the Ukrainian Classification of Goods of External Economic Activity by modifying the description of the goods under UCT code ZED 5407100000 thread for the manufacture of armoured vests and fabric used for the manufacture of armoured vests and helmets. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments and suggestions to the project. But I think if they're taken into account, the project can be taken as a basis. In the process of drafting a bill on a committee of national deputies, members of the committee received several suggestions and related to: clarifying the order of administration of information, telecommunications systems; improving the order of opening and functioning of duty-free shops; extending until 1 January 23rd year the exemption from taxation by customs duties imposed on Ukraine's customs territory of goods intended for the creation of space technology and so on. After considering the bill at its meeting, on December 5, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the committee’s proposals. Dear colleagues, I ask you to entrust the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy with the General Legal Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u162	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u163	carry out the technical and legal drafting of the bill after its adoption. Thank you for your attention and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u164	Thank you, Madam Head of the Committee. Please sign up for: two for, two against the factions. Oleg Romanovich Barresuk, are you speaking? Mrs. Ostrikova, Mrs. Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, indeed, the main purpose of this bill is to secure the Ministry of Finance as the main body responsible for the formation of customs policy, for the consolidation of databases of information and information and telecommunications systems that have been acquired or produced by the supervisory authorities, that is, at the task of customs or taxation. And here we really have a full consensus on this issue, and we understand that this is to ensure that customs bases are not interfered with, that the ASAUR system, the risk system, is working on the Inspector-2006 system. It really needs to be the Ministry of Finance's control over who's interfering with these systems or who's entering, whose electronic keys, what information is being removed from there or what information is being put there. And in this we fully support this bill. And as for the other part that was proposed here by the committee's amendments on duty-free shops in the area of arrival. There are certainly discussions here. So on the basis of this bill, we are ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u166	Thank you for the position of your faction, Mrs. Tetian. And now from the "Peter Dust Block" Maxime Chicken. Dear colleagues, other factions have failed to register. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the bill is very closely related to the previous 5368. The main goal, the main idea of these bills, is to renew the trust of taxpayers to the government authorities that collect these taxes. You can't live in a country where citizens don't trust government authorities. And this bill is called upon to ensure this trust. That's what you're talking about. The main thing is to allow the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to control the databases of Ukrainian customs, which are currently under way. Unfortunately, it's part of the State Fiscal Service, although in my opinion my colleagues and I think it should be, it should exist as a unit of its own. That'll be fair. But we all know how many complaints go away and how to determine the customs value, how today the Ukrainian border is just a huge hole, through which we can't allow pensioners to increase pensions to the right and fair size, we can't increase wages to the right and fair, and we can't increase wages and much social importance for our country. Dear colleagues! Of course, we have to vote, I call for consistency. This initiative was developed and approved by the National Reform Council of the President of Ukraine, and was directed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the priorities for reforming and detining the Ukrainian economy. There is a consolidated decision of a professional tax committee where almost all factions have supported it. And that's why, honourable colleagues, Madam Chairman, I propose to vote now for this bill as a basis and as a whole, as an editorial and committee. Thank you for your attention! Let's build the Ukrainian economy!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u168	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! There were only two factions, and it was self-help and Peter Dustenk's Block. Are they desirable to other factions? There are no wanters, but from other factions, Sobolev, I see. Now, Victor Mikhailovich, they're from BPP, but we'll find a way. Please, Fatherland, Mr. Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u169	Colleagues, before the show, Sergei. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes until 2:15. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! This bill is much better written than the previous one, but unfortunately it has again broken rules that were not passed by the government of Ukraine. And that's why I'm surprised at the position of finance minister here representing the government of Ukraine. And where did these rules come from, there is a service investigation to be carried out. That's why our faction is willing to vote in the first reading for this bill, if it's going to go into the government's office because it's the very right rule for the transfer of control of Mr. Nasirov's DFS, if you don't want to take it down, at least control this person. And we think that this part is absolutely right. In part of the rules that came after the committee meeting, unfortunately, there is a corrupt component again. So I draw the attention of the chairman, the anticorruption committee, who is obliged to report on this issue, and then put the government to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I want to tell you in general, we're spending a lot of time, I've given the previous one, from BPP was already a performance. My colleagues, I want to tell you that we've lost a lot of time in the morning, we're not able to accept all the budget bills. I'm asking everyone to mobilize so that we can get through the day-to-day session. It's a very short block, but we have to go to lunch. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code 5369 as a basis, colleagues, on the basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[14:00:49]] For 202 Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. I'll put them back. Colleagues, I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, I now propose to return to the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. These are important bills that we can't budget without. So I'm asking everyone for their responsibility, considering. I'll bet. So, colleagues, I'm putting the motion to a vote, back to debate 5369. I would like to vote in favour of the return to debate 5369. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[14:02:20]] For 215 Colleagues, ten votes short. I'll bet. The colleagues, on the basis of that, are in the same line that was given. I say again, colleagues, that's what it is. I've only got one form, based on the law, between the first and second readings, colleagues! It's simple, it's simple, it's simple, it's simple. I'm asking you to support me to return to consideration 5369. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please support, return to 5369, please. [[14:03:20]] For 222 Four votes, colleagues. I'll do it again. No, I won't give you the word, the discussion's over, the discussion's over. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again and call everyone to great responsibility. Now I'm going to put the first reading -- that's the reading that is. The emphasis that was put into Parliament is in the government. I'm asking everyone and we're actually putting it to a vote. I'm asking everyone to back up to 5369. Colleagues, please let me stress again, and I'll put it in the editor's office as you call the government? But it's not a government, it's a first reading, it's what went into Parliament, it's colleagues. I'm asking you to maintain your return to 5369. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please return to vote. Then I'll make it up to you, please come back, please. We're voting on our colleagues. [[14:04:30]] For 230 230, back. Colleagues, I emphasize, my form is: on the basis. This automatically means in the format that was submitted to Parliament. The amendments are made between the first and the second readings. Are you ready to vote like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u172	Please prepare, please prepare, please prepare for the vote. Please support the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (5369) as a basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:05:16]] For 216 Colleagues, what's the matter? Explain. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone not to disagree. We need to find out what our differences are so that we can make a decision. I ask everyone to remain in the hall for one minute, Minister of Finance Daniluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u173	Dear National Deputies! Thank you for supporting the previous Law 5368. But it must be understood that the system reform consists of two bills, if this bill is not now adopted, it just makes sense in the previous bill. And we're just, at the very least, delaying the reform of the DFS, in which you're interested, I'm sure, because it's in the interests of people, business in the interests of developing our economy. Request to support 5369. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u174	Colleagues, I'm now asking you to make proposals, not calls, but proposals, because we see that there are voices in the room, we need the right formulation to be able to make a decision. Please, one minute, Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! In 5369, there are key changes in the administration of the customs databases, the transfer to the Minfin level, and there is an additional group of people who also do not want to support these changes, those that are also somehow related to customs. I'm asking you to settle down. No harm in transferring the administration will bring the customs, it will never bring. Please vote on this related bill of 5368. Don't make anything up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u176	Colleagues, please concentrate. I'll put the vote back to 5369. Colleagues, please concentrate. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote back to 5369. I'd like your support, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:07:57]] For 229 And, colleagues, I'm rephrasing, based on 5369, based on it. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support me. On the basis of that, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:08:24]] For 223 Three votes, colleagues! Well, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'll put it back up. Guys, I'm asking you again. I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I'm going to say it out loud in the Cabinet of Ministers, just to be clear, okay? I'll put it in the cabinet. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote. Come back. for the return of 5369. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to vote for the return, and I will put the committee in line, as you say. That's the base. Oh, the government. That's the base, colleagues. Be more careful, this was explained five times today during the vote. Please support the return to 5369. Please vote. Please. Please vote. [[14:09:44]] For 222 Four votes. I'll ask you again, colleagues, to concentrate. I'm explaining and I've called the reason you call it five times. I'm just asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues, please. Colleagues, let's see, I'm going to put both of the suggestions that there are, and now I'm going to put them both together again. Some of the deputies say they don't vote because they want the committee to be edited, others call for the government to be edited. I'll make one and two suggestions, colleagues. I'll make one and two suggestions. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, I now ask you to vote for the return to 5369. Please vote back to 5369. Please vote. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:11:15]] For 211 Colleagues, well, I'll explain again. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to stay put, colleagues. We can't take him down. I'm explaining it for those who don't vote. Please support me, and I'll only put it in the first-reading government. All right, colleagues? Let's do it quickly. Do you support this option, colleagues? Colleagues, please concentrate. I'm putting the vote back to 5369. And please support me, colleagues. Please support the return to 5369. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. [[14:12:22]] For 223 Three votes. Please take your seats, I'll set it up again. Colleagues, I know your excitement, but I'm telling you, without this law, we're not going to get into the budget. I'm asking everyone. Colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone again to take up their jobs. Invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. I'm sorry for my insistence, but the Rules don't limit the number of times I can put on return. I'd like to ask you to concentrate again, please, come into the hall. I'm offering to go back to consideration 5369, colleagues. We're missing the voices of one of the factions. I'll give you 30 seconds, please. Stay close, my friends! 30 seconds, Oleg Valeriyovich, please explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u177	Colleagues, an extremely important issue: in fact, a major tax reform. But we see huge lobbying forces in this room to take them down. So I have a business, constructive proposal: let's now put Bill 5368 to the vote in general -- and then 5369 votes in the same way in general. And our faction is voting in the committee. Otherwise, it'll be over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't like the committee's editorials. Vote anything without us. But we won't let the lobbying groups handle their corruption issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u178	Colleagues, you know, there are no limitless possibilities. Colleagues, now I'm going to make another offer to return. I see a chance to return only if I make it clear that we're only going to vote on the basis. I see a chance. If we don't take this chance, Bill 5369 will be rejected. And I'd like to ask you not to take risks for that matter. I think it'll be a much worse prospect if it's rejected. There are voices in the hall. I'm asking very much for jobs. I'm saying I'm gonna do it again, second. And I'm just going to have to say no. I don't have a choice. I don't have a chance. And so now I'm asking you to save the law, and I'm asking you to vote once again on the basis, on the basis, of colleagues. It's the only chance we have of making a decision right now. I ask you very much to stop the intrigues in the hall. To keep the law, this is the only chance we can get out of this. I very much ask everyone to take a job and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to consideration 5369. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:16:30.]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. We're back. I'm asking you to focus. My colleagues, listen to me carefully. I see there's a chance to take the basis, colleagues, as a basis. I see in the hall, in general, we're not going to get votes again, and we're going back to the same story. But if we go back again, we won't get the votes. So I'm asking everyone to keep the law, support it as a foundation, colleagues, just as a basis. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, fine, but I'm warning you. Colleagues, pay attention! I want everyone's attention. I'm asking for everyone's attention right now. I want everyone's attention. I see a requirement from the hall, and I see what a big risk there is. Now, in order not to lose the bill, I'm going to make an offer to the committee to accept it as a whole. If it doesn't pass, the law will be rejected, just the law will be rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, pay attention! I'll lay the groundwork. And I promise you, if the hall supports the foundation, I'll put it all together. Attention! That's fair enough, isn't it? I'm asking everyone to support the foundation first. Colleagues, I would like to ask the government on a basis, please support as a basis in the first reading. Please support everyone. On the ground, colleagues, please support everyone. Based on the base. If you want the government, name you. Governmental based law, that's government. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. [[14:18:48]] For 228 Colleagues, as I promised, I will put in place as I promised. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it all together as promised. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm sorry. I'm putting Bill 5369 on the basis of the committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please cancel. Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, please cancel. Colleagues, I'm not gonna put the committee in position without it as a whole. Please, 1 minute, Nina Petrovna, 1 minute. Did we take the basis? They took it as a foundation. Nina Petrovna, one minute. Nina Petrova’s offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, we've had this practice and we have practice, we have very little time, we've worked two months openly, we've taken all the deputies into account. Please vote on the committee's proposals. What are you talking about? What do you do with your hands? You could all work and most of it worked. And I'm sure we voted 5368 with the committee's proposal. Without a committee proposal, it's not a vote. This is the position of the committee, the experts working on it. Please support with suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m0.u180	Colleagues, before the vote, promised to put this to a vote in order to unify the hall. I am now voting 5369 on the proposal of a committee as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Please vote and please support. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[14:20:51]] For-126 126 for. The decision is not made. As a basis, yes. On the basis of that, it is accepted. I made a proposal to the committee, she didn't pass, dear colleagues. Thank you for making the decision on the basis. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I'd like everyone to come to the hall at 4:00.
