ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Time to get started, please. In one minute, I'm going to call in the registration, and I'm going to ask you to take your seats. Colleagues ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please include the registration entry, please. Registered in 358 deputies. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear fellow national MPs! This morning we met with the Head of the National Council of the Swiss Confederation, Chris Markwalder. I was assured by a Swiss colleague that Switzerland would continue to maintain the territorial integrity of Ukraine and condemned the Russian occupation of Ukrainian lands. The delegation of the Swiss Parliament led by Mrs. Christa is here in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. This is the first visit of the head of the National Council to Ukraine. Let's welcome our colleagues, welcome to the head of the National Council. Please. [[Applause]] I would also like to report that today is the birthday of two Ukrainian national deputies. Let's welcome Jacob Bezbach with his birthday and Vadim Valeriyovich Krivenka with his birthday. Congratulations, colleagues. Remember, today, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we have two thematic blocks that are key. This is a block of deregulation and decentralization. Also today we have a question that we have not reached and have not been able to complete in the previous session is the release of judges. And, colleagues, I'm counting on our productive work today. Before the session starts, I want to read out an ad that is that the MPs should be properly represented during the meeting. So the announcement. According to the full statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, as part of the deputy faction of "The Fatherskina". Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And, Your Honor, I ask you to move on to the first question of order of the day. We begin immediately with questions raised by the government needed for deregulation. And we have the first draft of Law 4194 today. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for us to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I would ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to review draft Law 4194 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:09:04]] For-138 Colleagues, I see we're not all there. My colleagues, let me tell you again: 5 laws on deregulation, 7 laws on decentralization. If we go into full reading right now, I have great respect for the fact that we're talking in full reading, but I'm afraid we're not going to do all the work that we're going to do. And many of the deputies who stressed the need for a bill would then be reprimanded that we were unable to reach it. So I'm going to ask you again to take your jobs and get ready for the vote. I'm going to re-proposal a reduced voting procedure. If there are no votes, let's move on to the full procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues ready to vote? Ready. So once again, I'm proposing a simplified procedure for draft Law 4194. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. Short-term procedure. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, please vote. [[10:11:11]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Doub Vladislav Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u2	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! I have the honour to present a bill with Olena Stotnik 5,194 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons and businesses. I would also like to point out that the bill was fully in line with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, for which I really thank you, and an incredible work has been done with the entire reform team that is there now. I would also like to point out that in 2014 it was the first attempt to resolve this issue when changes were made to the Code of Masters and to the Civil Code, where the use of seals by legal persons and individuals and businesses became voluntary. At the same time, however, the following questions remained outside the scope of legal regulation: what was the legal meaning of sealing and the consequences of non-removal of sealing, how the subjects could manage, or whether the use of seals was required as their counterparty and what was the regime for printing outside civil law relations. Moreover, there are a number of laws in force, where use and sealing are still mandatory. In particular, this is the Ukrainian Law on Publishing, the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade and Public Nutrition, and a number of other bills. The purpose of the draft law is then to improve the national regulation of the use of seals in household activities and to achieve that goal, the following provisions are introduced: legislation excludes the requirement for mandatory use of seals, regardless of their presence in the home. It is excluded that a document, contract, or right may be declared invalid, uncommitted, not made due to a lack of sealing. The need to use is excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u4	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. The need to use seals in relations with government authorities and local authorities is excluded, and administrative responsibility is established for requiring government authorities or local authorities to make a fingerprint available on the official document. Dear colleagues! I would ask you to support the draft bill as a basis, as well as in the order of part two of article 115 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to vote in favour of short-term consideration and preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u5	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! A very important bill, why? Because it allows the illusion, the illusion that the seal creates some kind of protection for the entrepreneur or gives confirmation of the authenticity of the signature or the document itself. Today it's a formality that really doesn't work, and this formality has been kept mostly in the underdeveloped countries of the world, and you can actually count it on the fingers of one hand. Today, the seal is used in Ethiopia, Chad on separate documents, Belarus, Papua New Guinea, Thailand, India, and the rest of the countries of this redundancy have been removed. Dear colleagues! The bill proposes that the seal be permanently revoked as a requirement, since there is no control over the production of seals today, following their verification. There are no effective tools to allow this mechanism to work. The signature is something you can verify, the signature is something you can do with graphology, and that's actually how they work around the world. So in fact, by this bill, we're cleaning up the excess formalities that don't create any protection for an entrepreneur, but they give society an illusion, they create an illusion of reliability where there's no such reliability. So I would like to point out that this bill proposes to exclude the requirement for mandatory use of seals in those laws. where they remained, since the basic law, as Mr. Dove has pointed out, has already really been repealed, to exclude the possibility of invalidating the document due to the lack of sealing, to establish administrative responsibility for requiring such sealing on the document. I would like to point out that the Chief Research Administration is proposing that the bill be finalized. Antico.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u7	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u8	The Anti-Corruption Committee has reached a positive conclusion on this bill. A professional committee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship considers this legislative initiative to be necessary, useful, one that removes unnecessary regulatory barriers for entrepreneurs and simplifies the legal aspects of business conduct. So we propose to adopt this bill in the first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u9	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Captain Olena Sergiyevna is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u10	Thank you very much. Thank you for the word. Dear colleagues! Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I am a co-author of this law, and I have the honour to give perhaps additional arguments, in particular, to respond to some of the observations of the science-expert administration, which says that the deletion of the seal can actually lead to no evidence in the authenticity of the documents. I want to correct this argument, in fact, dear friends, Ukraine for today, it is far from the pace that is in the world. For many years now, agreements have been made in other countries of the world, even people don't see each other, they're done in electronic form, it's allowed to spread economic activity across continents, it's done from different parts of the world, and so on, trade, economic activity in different countries. It thrives and develops. Ukraine today is far behind the forms and forms of contract making and the management of the economic activity that is now in the progressive world. We're behind information society. I think it's necessary to correct the fact that a lack of sealing can somehow guarantee for our businesses, entrepreneurs, that the document is credible, is not true. In fact, the only possibility is the integrity and integrity of your counterparty, your partner. And the availability of a seal in no way guaranteed and would not guarantee in the future that the obligations would be fulfilled. This can only be guaranteed by a reputation, which can only be guaranteed by the experience of this subject. So I'm asking you very much to support our entrepreneurs, to support the economic sector, and to help us make progress in the progressive world, and to undo this already emerging element.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u12	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to support this bill. The Self-Help faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u13	Thank you. May I have the floor: National Deputy Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports entrepreneurs, supports small and medium-sized businesses. That's why we voted in favour of lowering the EU's burden on the wage fund, protecting special taxation for farmers, for small and medium-sized businesses, the so-called simplified taxation system. But deregulation is not a mess. And on the way to Europe, you forgot about the man. I want to remind you. During the summer, hundreds of people in Ishmael traveled through a rotten storm. Why did they wander? Because they don't need to sell it to everyone who does and doesn't know what conditions, then people suffer. And thank God no one died there. Try to sell sausage, cheese or butter somewhere outside the country. Ukrainian sausages, cheeses, and butter are not released abroad because they are said to meet quality standards. But you know exactly what, whether in Vienna or at any gas station, you're going to buy and not get poisoned because there's extremely strict control and responsibility. And we do. Firefighters can't be checked, houses are burned and people are killed. Environmental inspections can't be checked, they cut out the whole country. The state standard was eliminated, and thousands of people were displaced. And they say it's our way to Europe. You try anything in Europe without permission to sell! So when we're talking about democracy, deregulation, it's not supposed to be synonymous with the word "bardak" and "irresponsibility", which is impossible to find the extreme, it's impossible to bring responsibility. We want to live in a normal country -- there must be strict responsibility, iron discipline, iron control, and strict responsibility when Ukrainian citizens suffer, not digest, and no one is responsible for anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u16	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I ask you very much to pay attention and correctly to the authors to report that you are not legally canceling the mandatory sealing, but are amending the laws that the government should have adopted two years ago by the Parliament. 100 percent of you agree that the seal is not a guarantee of the authenticity of the document, and that was the moment the police made the permission, but we do know that it might have been peaceful to make a copy of the seal. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. But once again, I stress that it's been allowed to work without seals for two years now, that it's a change to the bill. And in return, Mr. Lazko. Mr. Lazko, the problem is off. is that all our governments, as reformers are called, are taking a step forward and then two steps back. They created a very nice inspection called "Thread to Table," where the same food had to be controlled from the moment it was planted and chemicalized, and how they got to the table. But to this day it has been destroyed, again subjected to those who will never show us what GMOs they digest and return to the old. And that's why I think we as a parliamentary country should ask this government why today's consumer is not protected. And I can tell you -- it's no easier for entrepreneurs, they're hiding that you can't run checks, there's no way that an organ has turned to the Kabmin, and it hasn't got permission, it's also.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u17	Please, Chicken, Peter Dust Block. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kugel isn't finished. Just turn it on for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u18	They're taking bribes so they don't run checks and that's bitter, and I think with Mr. Halasyuk we'll be able to hear it from Kabmin and make suggestions to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u19	Please, Chicken, Peter Dust Block, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u20	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! You and I have taken a deregulation and business facilitation course. Surely we will never get out of this path, for that is what society expects of us. But, as they say, "the path to hell is well-intentioned." And that is why I believe that the adoption of this law in this edition reflects this very national proverb and this national wisdom. Really, let us talk about the risks of adopting the bill today. You can't even use a seal. Friends, we thus, by adopting this law, open the way for fraudsters and thieves to speculate and pillage and businesses and the same businessmen. The point is, let's think about it and not do the bear service to our businessmen when we say that we can't require sealing? That's the second argument you can't ignore. And I want to tell the authors of the bill: Honorable colleagues, counting only on the integrity and integrity of business contractors, business partners, it's as naive as a matter of fact. That's why I think the adoption of this law is a bear service to our businesses, not deregulation, it's not simplification, it's just an opportunity for multiple abuses. On the other hand, we're all going to be reflected. I think let's take a look at the thinking of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and let's turn this legislative initiative back to work and stop this discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u21	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word. Mr. Dove, I'll probably give you the final word, okay? It's going to be the right thing to do. Please, Victor Pinzenik, then Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u22	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! To be honest, I'm a little surprised by the appearance of this law, because I thought that the seal problem had long been removed from us, that this archaic rudimentary of the old totalitarian system had finally come to life. What is the seal that protects it? Which one of you doesn't know that tomorrow you can make any seals? Therefore, the existence of such an instrument is absolutely unnecessary, without permission. This is a small step in simplifying the lives of our entrepreneurs, but it needs to be taken. I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u23	Please, Mr. Solovay. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u24	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I'm probably one of those MPs who supported almost 100 bills aimed at supporting and developing small and medium-sized businesses. But specifically on this issue, I agree with my colleague Chicken that this bill is a bear service for entrepreneurs, because keeping the seals just allowed me to avoid the raids, it allowed me to avoid illegal things. When we talk about Europe often, we speak correctly, but we forget that Ukrainian mentality is unfortunately very different from European mentality, including in the business sector. The very existence of sealing in many cases allowed the contract to be declared unlawful or not in conformity with the law. In addition, printing was a way to avoid the raiding of businesses. So I'm going to the drafters of the bill, and I'm going to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u25	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u26	And that's why I'm going to ask my colleagues in Parliament to take a closer look at this bill, to weigh all of its arguments, to postpone its adoption today, to work on it, and to come back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I will now give the closing statement to the author of the Pigeon Vladislav Volodymyrovich. A vote will take place after his speech. And so I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Chamber. I also ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. One minute later, there will be a vote on the bill. Now, please turn on Vladislav Volodymyrovich Dove's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u28	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Once again, for the sake of clarity of argument, I would like to say that in the 14th year, voluntary printing was introduced. However, the amendments to the Code of Masters and the Civil Code unfortunately did not change Ukraine’s other legislative acts, where sealing was still required. That's why we're proposing that this bill completely cancel the use of seals. First moment. One second. I'd like to say that in all of the Western world, there's a big business that understands that sealing is an archaic concept. Nowhere else in the world is the seal used. Moreover, taking into account modern business practices, they are now simply exchanging signed foreign-economic contracts. That's why I urge everyone to take the path, the European way to doing business, and to make business easier for our businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u29	Ten seconds, please. Turn on the microphone to complete the report, please for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u30	So once again, colleagues, if anyone has a point, there are no questions. Let's change the order of the second reading. But, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I urge you to put my initiative in line with section two of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and prepare a second reading of the bill under short procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u31	Okay, thank you, Vladislav Volodymyrovich. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. Colleagues, discussions were concluded during the presentations. There was general conceptual support for this initiative. I am convinced that these warnings, which have sounded, can be fully adjusted to the second reading. And I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. Please come in, dear colleagues, and we are preparing to make a decision. Colleagues Ready to Vote? So I'm voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (No. 4194) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:33:31]] For 235 Decision taken. Hello. I'm going to make a proposal for a shorter preparation for the second reading. Colleagues, there's a request from the authors that we give the mechanism. Is he offering Self-Help in general? Is that too radical or acceptable? Colleagues in general? No, there's a warning. There are warnings, colleagues, excuse me, there are warnings. So I'm voting on the proposal: a brief consideration of the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:34:25]] For 214 241 is for, there's no support in this room. But nevertheless, congratulations to the author, welcome to the profile committee, Mr. Victor. And let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to provide additional guarantees of legality in their implementation (number 3719). And I would like to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please vote, summary procedure, 3719. Please vote. [[10:35:14]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Doub Vladislav Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to provide additional guarantees of legality in their implementation. I would like to thank, above all, all the co-sponsors of the bill, as well as the representatives of the IT sector led by Janika Merillo, who have made a tremendous effort to really be able to write the bill. Despite changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, law enforcement continues to remove computer technology, servers, and media. And we've all seen recently all of you have seen this process in one of the big Ukrainian companies. At the same time, there are still no rules in the CPC to prevent the abuse of investigators and prosecutors during an investigation as a search. As a result, we have 5 key problems that need immediate legislative regulation, such as groundless searches; unfounded removal of electronic information systems and parts of them; inadequate scope of deleted property for search purposes and the need for pre-trial investigation; over-application of search warrants; non-admission of lawyers during search. Therefore, in order to ensure the legality of individual investigations, the draft law proposes: prohibit the temporary removal of electronic information systems, investigators will have to copy information rather than remove technology; To allow special units to be used during searches of the subject-holders solely on the basis of the arrest of the investigating judge and only on the basis of serious and particularly serious crimes; The lawyer's access to the search process at any stage; the search will only be allowed as an exceptional investigative action when the information cannot be obtained in another way; as well as introducing a mandatory reasoning on the need to search and describe in detail the objects and persons to be found. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u33	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I think we will all agree that the actions that are currently taking place in the IT sector and the actions of the law enforcement agencies, in particular in this area, are of a dangerous nature enough to develop this direction in the economic sector. And a lot of people are looking for other jurisdictions to develop IT business. So I urge all of you to support our colleagues who pay taxes in Ukraine, to support the Ukrainian economy and to adopt this law in the first reading, and to prepare it for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u35	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Andrija Kozemyakin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u36	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, I'd like to draw the entire room to listen carefully to these changes that are being proposed today in the Criminal Procedure Code because this is very, very important today for Ukrainian business and IT companies. A committee on law enforcement has considered the bill. And once again, after one of the authors of this law, I want to repeat these changes that are proposed under the Criminal Procedure Code. Thus, temporary removal of electronic information systems is prohibited, and investigators will have to copy information rather than remove technology, i.e. changes to article 168 of the CPC. In the course of searches, special units may be used solely on the basis of the approval of the investigating judge and only on the condition that a serious, or particularly serious, crime is committed, or a change to article 223. The lawyer will be able to join the search process at any stage of the search, and the search will only be allowed as an exclusively investigative action when it is not possible to obtain information in any other way. In recent times, Ukraine's IT market has seen a very difficult situation that has become a threat to the country's investment climate and economy as a whole. This is due to the involvement of law enforcement agencies in IT companies, the removal of electronic information systems, or parts thereof. Having examined this bill, which, by the way, does not support any Ukrainian law enforcement agency, members of the committee noted that its adoption would guarantee the legal right of a person to protect his property and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt his bill on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. And I'm asking you to sign up for factions: two for, two against, to discuss the bill. Please represent the Fatherland faction, Mr. Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u38	Please give Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Mr. Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The proposed bill, though it has a number of observations there, but I'm insinuating you all to support it, because these remarks can be very easily corrected for second reading. Why is this project so important? Because it proposes to seize the right of investigators to use such a tool of business pressure, politics, as a removal of computer technology. At present, the threat of computer removal is the most effective way for investigators to force a person to bribe or cooperate. Removing computer technology is always a stop to the structure. I want to give you an example of when the Parents Party tried to stop the party's political activities and illegally removed the servers that are still being removed. The file %1 does (for Yanukovich's authority), which is still unreturned. Similarly, the same processes are taking place in private businesses, which are never useful for investigating information, but their removal is a blow either to political structures or to businesses and damages that cannot be recovered quickly. In addition, after the removal of computer technology, individuals are forced to buy another, but after the return of the investigator, it turns out that the enterprise already has a mere surplus of technology. I'm asking everyone to support this bill, to adopt it in the first reading, and I think we'll work it out in a way that will protect other entrepreneurs from, unfortunately, the still corrupt investigation agencies of the State Fiscal Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mrs. Oleni Stotnik, from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u43	Please, Roman Semenich, turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u44	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear lady in charge! The proposed bill certainly deserves support, because to a large extent, its adoption depends on whether there is a future in the IT sector in our country, or whether it will continue to "raise migration" abroad. I want to remind everyone that computers are the main means of production in this field, and computer removal is the most disgraceful, widespread phenomenon during searches. Such computers have been unwarranted for months. At the same time, no law enforcement agency is responsible for the maintenance of technology in a working state and is effectively blocking the operation of such an enterprise. In 2015 alone, searches took place in dozens of leading Ukrainian IT companies. During the search, excessive and unwarranted use of force was often observed. Moreover, no law enforcement officer was called to account. At the same time, employees of such companies do not resist searches. The legend is already looking for an I.R. address in the ladies' room. In doing so, no charges against these companies were even brought before the courts, and no rapist was punished for baseless and groundless removal of technology. Therefore, it is suggested that you get information from these devices by copying. The technology should stay at the company and ensure the company’s continuous work. The initiative to ban the demonstration of weapons and to hide the appearance of the Special Unit staff during the search is also quite appropriate. Colleagues, let's be honest, this isn't just about the IT branch. Today, in any company in the modern economy, computers, servers, other technologies are modern tools. We should therefore move away from the principles of a police state where economic activity is regulated by strong methods and threats. Otherwise, we will not be able to stop the migration of one of the most intellectual parts of our society. The Self-Help Group calls for support to the session hall and for the law to be voted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u45	Thank you. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u46	In full support of this bill, I ask you to give the floor to the co-author of this bill, Alexi Petrovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, Alexy Poroshenko, Vinnitsky district, 12th constituency. Please support this bill, it's really important in time. I think a lot of us know that this is the biggest or one of the biggest problems that is now for our IT sector, for the development of the IT sector, is the removal of servers by law enforcement agencies. In fact, as colleagues said, this paralyses the work of such companies. It's very important that during searches at any stage there should be an opportunity for lawyers to access the information instead of simply removing it, it's copied. If there really is a violation, it will be enough to find them and then bring the guilty to justice. So given the importance of this bill to our IT sector, which is developing at the fastest pace in recent years, please support everyone. And I ask the chairman to put the second reading under review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Litwin. Mr. Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u49	Dear Head, my fellow Members, the urgency of this bill is clear and not only for IT companies. Along with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u50	Mr. Volodymyr, there's something wrong with hearing, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u51	The urgency of this law is obvious and not just for IT companies. Along with what I can see, some clarifications were needed. To ban the temporary removal of electronic information systems, investigators should copy information rather than delete technology, to record that at the scene of the investigation. Otherwise they're going to remove the technique, and then they're going to say, we're going to download the information and we're going to bring it back, that's the first. And second moment. We need to establish, not the right of a lawyer to have access to the search process at any stage of the search, but the mandatory presence of a lawyer during the search at any stage of the search. And I can see that, given these clarifications, this bill had to be adopted today as a basis and as a whole, because delaying the adoption of this bill would lead to a failure to accept it, because there is a reluctance for these norms to take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk. And there'll be another performance from the Non-Flocking Coast. And that's where we're going to end the discussion. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction supports this bill. It's very important today because it's not just about protecting the IT sector, it's about protecting every Ukrainian entrepreneur, every investor. Because as much as you can make promises from a high rostrum, you can make strategies 5 or 15 years ahead of time, but then you have to deal with such raids from the power organs on entrepreneurs to destroy all confidence. This happened to Eugene Utkin KM Core, who. Everyone in the country knows him as a decent entrepreneur, a volunteer, a patron, a leader, a Ukrainian visit to the IT sector in the world. And they came at him like this in a disgraceful way. So that it will never be, and in order for this to be the last in all, we have to adopt this law, take into the law enforcement agencies the possibility of such excessive interference in the activities of entrepreneurs. This is the construction of a normal investment climate. Because who comes with the investment when the force can punch and make.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the final performance. In a minute, there will be a vote on the decision, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies and factions' heads to invite deputies to the Chamber. Please, one minute, Borislav Bereza. The coast!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u55	I'm sorry. I want to make everyone's attention -- that really, protecting the IT sector is a very important issue. But we need to protect not exclusively the IT sector. Tomorrow they're going to go into a big food grid and delete the servers. Or they'll go into a factory tomorrow and they'll delete it. Maybe we can make an adjustment right now, or we should pay attention to it, and then we need to protect everyone's servers, because otherwise we're going to make non-competitive conditions for one sector or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u56	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion was concluded, and during the discussion everyone stressed the importance and urgency of the bill. And, dear fellows, I'm going to make the first proposal as a basis. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to provide additional guarantees of legality in their implementation (No. 3719). According to the committee, the proposal is to support the bill as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:51:43]] For 287 Dear colleagues, the committee has made a proposal for us to consider the second reading under reduced procedure. Who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure for second reading, please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:52:17]] For 261 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, dear fellows, I'd like to consult with you right now, especially with the head of the committee. The next question is question 4958, is there a willingness in the hall to consider it, to accept it, Mr. Victor? You give me a visual. Are you ready? Yes. Shall we go in there? Yeah, okay. So we move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of licensed procedures in the field of external economic activity (No. 4958). Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, I'd like to support your consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[10:53:28]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u57	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I suggest that you consider the draft Law 4958, which abolishes export licences, imports of alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, abolishes penalties for non-reporting by entrepreneurs, and cancels the need to obtain a license for wholesale trade if all imported products are implemented in their own import chains. What are we talking about? The point is that today these licenses that I've called are completely artificial, they're neither regulatory nor fiscal. The license costs 780 dollars, less money coming to the state budget than the expenses that go to its administration. What does that say? This says it's a potentially corrupt tool that's just used to bully entrepreneurs. Therefore, the proposal is to remove these artificial regulatory barriers. Moreover, I would like to point out that today there is an absolutely unacceptable situation in which many small entrepreneurs in Ukraine who are engaged in retail trade in this area are forced to pay fines of 17,000 dollars because they have not been able to submit a report that they were obliged to submit in two weeks before the final date. This is totally unacceptable. So essentially, the government takes its command to take hostages of small businesses. If for someone 17,000 dollars is not money, believe me, for those small businesses, it's crazy money. And that's why we have no right today not to accept this bill. We must correct this shameful mistake today and speak the word of Parliament in this matter. So the elimination of these artificial licenses essentially costing their own imports for fragmented networks as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u58	Please let me finish for 30 seconds. One minute. Please, Mr. Halasyuk, finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. So the fundamental question today is the adoption of this bill because it is the protection of the interests of small entrepreneurs, it is the removal of unnecessary regulatory barriers, and it is the removal of corrupt mechanisms that today do not fill the budget but only create the basis for artificial pressure. I want to emphasize the position of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and they suggest that they support the first reading with suggestions. The Cabinet of Ministers concluded that it supported the proposed bill, taking into account certain observations. At the same time, we worked with Nina Petrina, a tax committee. This bill was passed by the Committee of Prompolitics. And we suggest, given that his editorial work is done, that he be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council and recommended that he be accepted in the first reading as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u60	More? 30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u61	Once again, this is not just a matter of removing artificial regulatory barriers, but it is a question of not being fined by small entrepreneurs for 17,000 dollars today. There were a number of phone calls from entrepreneurs. So today we ask the Supreme Council to express its position, to support this bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u62	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, now according to the Rules, I ask you to sign up for this bill: two for, two against. Please, Mr. Podlisecki, the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Tani Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u64	Please turn on Mrs. Ostrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, this bill contains a number of positive norms aimed at deregulation of external economic activity. In fact, Soviet licenses for exports, imports of alcohol, and alcoholic beverages are still being revoked. And it's also a big deal to settle the issue of the rule of government regulation, the Law on State regulation of production and the circulation of ethyl alcohol, precisely as regards reports on production volumes and/or the volume of alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Indeed, the chairman of the committee rightly noted that the operators of a fragmented network had only actually 10 days to prepare and submit reports for which penalties were imposed. We need to settle this issue immediately. Because, really, there are a lot of complaints coming to both the Ministry and the Committee. In the past, such reports were not foreseen for the subject of retail trade. And the fiscal service, it should be noted, she sees it anyway. And that's a waste of information, which, let's say, is an extra burden on the administration of this process. It's unnecessary. We have to cancel it. So our faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u66	Thank you, dear colleague! Please, to the word of Yuri Solovay of the "Peter Duster's Block" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u67	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, literally this week in the government under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics, there was a working group meeting on the development of a road map for supporting and developing Ukrainian exports. And in this strategic session, questions were being examined, which were the main barriers to development of Ukrainian exports. So one of the important elements in this direction was the excessive licensing of those Ukrainian companies that export to other countries. And so one of the rules of this law that cleans these things is extremely important. Also, the questions that relate to imports and trade that Mrs. Ostrov raised, and the committee head, I think, are absolutely correct and normal. We should simplify, simplify, as much as possible, all procedures related to the pursuit of entrepreneurial activities. And that's why I'm asking my colleagues to support this bill not only as a basis, but as a whole to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko is handing over Sergey Sobolev from the Fatherland faction. Turn the microphone on on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to read this bill carefully. What happened? I am addressing Mrs. Jujanina, whose committee, in fact, has been looking at this bill, and Mr. Sobolev, who has somehow given no conclusions on the two parts of the bill regarding their corruption and direct lobbying. I absolutely agree with Mr. Halasyuk, who, in part, has actually been deregulation and simplification of the business activity process, quite rightly noted these parts of the bill. I only have a question: and why exactly is such a bill that didn't contain any lobbyist stuff about the alcohol industry and the disc manufacturing industry in Ukraine broken down in a second reading, this is the Alexandra Kugel bill, which contained only the parts that dealt with the deregulation of this business. Now the question is, why is our faction against this bill in two other parts? Do you know what's in here? Here you can cancel the alcohol import license. This is actually a discovery of the complete destruction of the Ukrainian alcohol industry. This is preparation for the sale of Kruspirt under the Crucifixion scheme, when it's sold, not to individual liquor companies, but to the whole of the industry for nothing. And the second. And how we're going to look into the eyes of those who have already put Ukraine in the ten countries that are most engaged in CD manufacturing. See where this law came from. This is a direct lobbyist bill, which has covered itself with excellent deregulation standards, while at the same time destroying essentially the Ukrainian alcohol industry and further overshadowing the production of legal disks in Ukraine. So our faction requires us to understand how such standards came into the same bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u70	Thank you. Dobrenkov Alexander Valerijovich is invited to attend. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the opposition bloc faction will support the draft bill, but with certain warnings, of course. Of course, with regard to the wholesale trade in alcoholic beverages, the introduction of an additional licence for the given activity is unnecessary. And accordingly we need to deepen our direction and our activity on the path of deregulation. Of course, reporting to those retailers who trade in alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, production volumes, and sales volumes is also unnecessary. And in order to save listed owners from wrongly fined, namely, imposing a fine of 17,000 dollars is unacceptable, and we must all take steps together to adopt this bill to prevent it. But there are, in fact, issues related to imports of alcohol that need to be considered separately, because it is raw material, and the raw material in question does not have a bearing on the finished product, the corresponding proposals have a right to life and need to be imported. Therefore, of course, voting on a prescribed bill in general does not make sense because of a number of objections. There is also a need to look at the problems of this sector, since there are enough excise taxes on this product, and they do not correspond to European levels. And we're going to need to adopt a bill next time on raising the excise tax, and we're going to need to implement those legislative initiatives that are aimed at strengthening control over the retail sales of alcoholic beverages. Because it is no secret to anyone that natural trade is now necessary to impose appropriate penalties and the corresponding responsibility is more severe than the natural sale of alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. In a minute. From factions? Then, colleagues, I'm going to give two more performances: from the non-fractional one minute to Lechchenk and then from the faction one minute. And the Mine Economics? All right, three shows. But that means there will be a vote in three minutes, and please invite the deputies into the hall. So first, Lewchenko from the non-fractional, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u73	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Several speakers who supported these innovations said that it didn't matter what sector each sector needs maximum deregulation, maximum free market, and so on. I'd like to completely disagree with those speakers. No, there's a huge difference that the industry is talking about, and if this is about selling alcohol, then my deep conviction, and the position of Freedom is that there should be no deregulation in the alcohol market at all, but there should be an increase in the regulation of the alcohol market. Because someone may not know from officials or speakers, but Ukraine suffers from an alcohol epidemic, where tens of thousands of children sing each year. Yeah? And even if it's a small barrier, and I agree that it's a small barrier and I don't argue with it, yes, the barrier is small -- 750 bracelets of license, bureaucracy, but it's still a barrier. And that's why we're going to take a firm vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u74	From the Radical Party, Mr. Halasyuk. Baby? Please, one minute. And get ready from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. For a long time, we are making sure that the law is reviewed in Parliament and that the state funding of the vocational schools is returned. We cannot consider this law. We're looking at laws to actually reduce the cost of residential services, create favourable conditions to increase the production of our own gas. We cannot succeed in Parliament's consideration of this law. We're making sure that millions of Ukrainian pensioners who receive less than a thousand dollars are able to raise this pension to a minimum. We can't get a review of this law. On the most productive day of Parliament, on Thursday, the fourth day is the issue of alcohol and tobacco. You know, the movie "The City of Meetings Can't Change" said, "You can't lie to a woman, she can hear with her heart." So what I want to tell you is that there's nothing to fool us into asking these questions, which means it's lobby questions for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Attention, colleagues! Dear colleagues! Once again, there's a forest of hands in the hall, we've actually finished his discussion, okay. Okay, I'll let everyone speak and remind you, the block of deregulation was proposed by the government, and on the Conciliation Council, we've agreed on its consideration with the package that it is. I'll give you my closing statement, if you don't mind, because he's still among the deputies. I'll give you one minute, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u77	Dear friends! Not only do we hear with our heart but we also know professionally exactly what it says. And I want to tell you that people who are professionally trained in laws know exactly what kind of corruption is going on right now. Perhaps no one in this room understands or remembers how we joined the World Trade Organization, but we had one requirement, including in agreements with the United States, that would double the licensing of laser discs. You know why? It's the protection of intellectual property and it was a condition, including Ukraine's introduction to WTO. Now this bill just cancels it, I want to ask who's going to answer for it. And secondly, you know, people who are in power are now beginning to decompose, in principle, the alcohol industry. I want to give you one number, for example, in the former Soviet Union budget up to 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u78	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u79	It was from the alcohol industry. Now they're essentially taking down the protection of the internal market to devalue Ukraine's alcohol industry to zero. She's not going to be a competitor. They are privatized for nothing, and then they will regain their right to have this monopoly. This is pure - looking corruption, covered by several regulatory, deregulation steps. I'm asking you not to vote for this. And it's very loud to carry on corruption through parliament. Stop already, Mrs. Jujanina!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u80	Will they still be willing? Saucyuk, right? Saucuk, one minute, Yegor Sobolev, one minute. Colleagues, pay attention! We've already come from factions and committees, so let's just cut down on those statements a little bit, we're not going to make a decision. Saucuk, one minute, Yegor Sobolev, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, when it comes to alcohol, it is not just the food alcohols that make vodka. In our country, there are many ethyl alcohols, the so - called faction that is processed only abroad, in the west, in Europe. And in order to get them out, it takes a license. And licensing, in fact, nobody needs it in this situation, because it actually creates a corrupt component. And if we simplify the export process of alcohol, alcohol waste, if we take it properly, we get additional benefits of budget concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the Anti-Corruption Committee has examined this bill as carefully as any other. We don't think there's corruption in it. Corruption is a government monopoly on the production of alcohol and the artificial retention of Ukrispirt. This is a dining room for many governments and many oligarchs, starting with "Jura Yenakiewski". And anyone who protects this dining room is helping to continue top corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Please. Do you have a closing after? Then let me give Nephrodite. Society, we're done talking, I'm sorry, all the factions have had a word, I think twice. Let's give Nephrodite one minute and then you one minute. Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes, please come into the hall. Please, Nephrodov, one minute from the Ministry. Turn on the microphone, please, Nephrodite.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, these standards have nothing to do with Easter. All alcohol, it's imported and exported through Easter. It's about licenses worth 780 dollars, which I've been signing personally for more than a year and a half, which are available to anyone when you're filing two papers: the application and the documents that you've paid for these 780 bracelets. It's not about protecting the internal market, it's not about export permits, it's about the bureaucratic procedure that's left to us. About the export of disks and their licensing, you've already cancelled this in 2015, it's just about the matrix to form them, it's basically equipment to make them, neither export nor import disks for more than a year in Ukraine. I'm asking you very much to support this. This is a completely absurd bureaucratic procedure that has taken up five people in Mineconomy. If we're talking about deregulation, it's the exclusion of very simple little things, there's no corruptogenic norms. Once again, we give these licenses to anyone who issues an application and a payment document for 780 dollars a year. It's not a market defense against alcohol, no. [[Noise Nodes]] And imports are the same, and imports are 780 dollars per year to anyone who wants to export or sell alcohol. This is about food. Spirt, for alcohol. is a state monopoly that. other laws, there's a law that says there's a state monopoly on alcohol. No export or import licence can be issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, very keen and lively discussion. We've heard all the thoughts. Now I'm going to give the opportunity to speak to the committee head for the final word. Then we'll move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. Two minutes. Everyone, please come into the hall. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Victor Valeriyovich, please, closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Now we've heard a lot of warnings. I understand that there are doubts about some factions. I would like to point out that with respect to you, dear colleagues, the proposal is constructively as follows. The Hot Committee recommended adopting this bill today as a whole as a law and removing the problem of fines for small entrepreneurs, removing the corruption that is probably caused by these regulations. If there are such serious warnings, let us now support the first reading on the basis and the summary of the committee’s preparations. And anyone who has criticized today who has made recommendations today, I invite you to the committee. Let's talk about this clearly, in conjunction with you and the Ministry of Economics, with the experts, let's take these issues down. Let's just make it quick! For the second time this law is broken and small entrepreneurs suffer. And then there's a lot of appeal to me, to the committee that the deputies can't give this order. So let's be clear: where there are painful questions, where there are warnings, we're clearly sitting down with documents and comparing them. Because others sounded last time. Another criticism sounded, not in those positions. It was said that this contradicts the norms of the European Union and so forth. Today, thank God, C doesn't sound like much anymore, because we've given the argument. So the offer, the honourable colleagues. This bill, the concept is correct. If there are separate positions of caution, and I'm sure you won't see these warnings there in different kinds of trade, because we all have to take care of small business protection, including trade. And we must undo these shameful reports and infamous fines as soon as possible. And we have a duty to clean up the corrupt food counters. So I would like to support this bill as a basis for the first reading with a brief preparation for the second reading. And I invite all of us to the committee to discuss and to adopt the law as a whole without question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u88	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, in order not to run later during the vote, I ask you to come up and take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify licensing procedures in the field of external economic activity, number 4958 on a basis, colleagues, on a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote on the basis. [[11:18:25]] For 254 Decision taken. There was a proposal, a request from the committee -- a reduced procedure to a second reading. Therefore, who supports the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure for the second reading, please vote. A brief consideration of the second reading, please vote. [[11:18:58]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. There'll be a full procedure. Nevertheless, welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. We have the last bill from the block of deregulation. This is the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, number 3132. Colleagues who support its consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:19:41]] For-191 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Ivanchuk to report. Oh, Solovay. A representative of the committee. Please, Mr. Solovay, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, it's very good that we are today considering the economic bloc of drafts and this is the fourth bill in the agenda. I want to say that this is a very important law, because in connection with World Bank Business Management research, Doing Business 2016, Ukraine has an unacceptably low 141 places at the rate of insolvency regulation. The main reasons why Ukraine has such a place in this indicator are the excessively long procedure in Ukraine, which now lasts 2.9 years. For example, in developed countries, the process of restoring the capacity or bankruptcy of an enterprise takes only about a year and a half. The high cost of bankruptcy procedures in Ukraine is 42 percent of the borrower’s assets, compared with 9 percent in developed countries. And most importantly, according to the bankruptcy rate today, Ukraine has a low efficiency of bankruptcy procedures in part of the collection index, it has a total of 8.3 cents per dollar, instead of 72.3 percent in developed countries. In addition, the problem is that the existing regulation of the procedures still allows debtors to evade their obligations to creditors, which is too long and insufficiently effective. In particular, with a view to resolving this problem, the Economic Policy Committee has conducted appropriate committee hearings with the participation of all the professional associations and representatives of the arbitration boards and the people directly involved in this process. And as a result of the committee hearings held with the participation of all the national deputies who are members of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u90	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u91	The bill has been drafted. And today all members of the Economic Policy Committee are co-authors. And that's why I want to go to all my colleagues. Dear national deputies, it is serious, it is a systematic, fundamental, bill that regulates the relationship between bankruptcy and the recovery of the debtor’s insolvency. And my request, and there is an appropriate conclusion of the committee, is to adopt the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u92	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please, colleagues. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The bill to simplify the bankruptcy procedure of legal persons is important and our faction will support it. But I would like to draw attention to other bills that are registered in Parliament, including the deputies from our faction Victor Halasyuk, Sergey Rybalka, Victor Wolf, this is about the bankruptcy procedure of individuals, this is primarily about monetary lenders. So far, we haven't taken the liberty of cutting down this Gordy knot. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who have been put on the neck of an overcrowding of monetary loans still suffer, are thrown into the streets, and are deprived of their only home. Children are homeless, parents are unable to remove the burden because someone tells us that we are engaged in populism. People overpaid for the apartments they took 10 years ago loans, twice, three times already paid for those apartments. Even today, in order to get the rest of the loan back and sell this apartment, they and half of them won't take the price of what they paid for it. And this chauffeur is going after them for the rest of his life, and they're not going to be able to solve this problem. That's why I'm calling on Parliament's leadership as a matter of urgency, perhaps even today, to put this law into consideration, to establish a procedure for bankruptcy of a natural person. These laws are in force in the countries of the European Union, and these laws are in the United States, but there is no law in Ukraine. This law allows banks, for the financial and banking system, to settle monetary lenders' issues in order to remove this smudge and allow people to start their lives again with a clean letter. Therefore, I ask that this law, not just lobbyist tobacco or gorillas, be brought to Parliament without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich is invited to attend. It's Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u95	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. We support Oleg Lášk in the section of the urgent bill on the bankruptcy of natural persons. Unfortunately, we passed a bill on private collectors, but executives, but we didn't protect people. What is involved in this bill is 3132. On some issues, it improves the duration of bankruptcy cases. But there are significant remarks that are highlighted by the faction "The Fatherland." First of all, it's unacceptable that the issue of pay on salary comes out of the rules of turn. So today we know that in bankruptcy, he will pay alimony and wages on an extra basis. The bill removes this standard. And we don't protect people with you. And we understand how bankruptcy is being carried out right now. So they won't even get the wages, the debts. In addition, any requirement for a quorum of creditors that allows, well, to block bankruptcy proceedings and significant abuses is effectively eliminated. And that's why there's a questionable proposal for the whole thing. narrowing the credentials and committee of creditors, such as, nevertheless, those interested in restoring the debtor's ability to pay. We also stress that it is not possible to delete from articles 29 and 96 a provision on the acceptance of a plan for the rehabilitation of state-owned enterprises with the authority responsible for controlling this enterprise. We believe this will lead to hidden privatization. It is also impossible to accept the proposal to pay the current costs, including the procedure and remuneration of the arbitrator. In turn he gets all the payments, people don't get paid, alimony. He's going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u96	Please, how much? One minute. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u97	And the last. We do not support the removal from the law of the situation, which, in the event of the liquidation of a bankruptcy enterprise, is obliged to transfer to the local community housing facilities, including dormitories, children's preschools and municipal infrastructures. These are observations that are unacceptable. We stress that the Bankruptcy Act needs to be amended, but unfortunately, every time it is introduced, it is brought in with laws that are unacceptable. The "Fatherland" faction in this paper will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Georgievich Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we welcome the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament is at any rate trying to address the problems of the economy, the problems of businesses and businesses in Ukraine. We have very sad news. We've had industrial production for the second month in a row. In June, 3.4 percent fell; in July, 0.2 percent fell. I would like to point out that this decline is due to the corresponding period of 2015. So this isn't the result of war, because the situation in the east hasn't changed significantly compared to last year. This is the result of the activities of today’s authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the economic growth of 5-10 percent in order to catch up with Albania in a few years, we're talking? And there's a lot to talk about deregulation. And the president was speaking, and everybody's talking about deregulation. But unfortunately, we have a lot of deregulation on TV and on Facebook. Because entrepreneurs don't notice her. Similarly, it is overlooked by those who are responsible for different ratings. For example, in the economic freedom rating, Ukraine now ranks 162 with 178. And the worst part is that Ukraine declined compared to 2015, when we were 155, and it wasn't very high either. This is the deregulation. And it's no wonder they're talking about bankruptcy. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u100	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u101	No wonder they're talking about bankruptcy because we, our respectable colleagues, have a third of the businesses, all the businesses in Ukraine are broke. And total losses for 2014-2015 amounted to over 600 billion dollars. Before this bill, there are so many technical issues. I won't be focusing on them right now. That is why the faction of the Opposition Block will not support this bill and calls on the Ukrainian Parliament to finally focus on those laws that will allow for restoration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u102	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u103	on those bills that will allow industry to be restored and ensure real economic growth and a boost in the welfare of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Happy Natalia Vasilovna. And I understand it's going to be a closing act. And I very much ask my fellow MPs to prepare themselves for making a decision. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies and heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. He's handing it over to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u105	Colleagues, it's a very good idea to regulate bankruptcy, but it's in this bill that the Anti-Corruption Committee found corrupt rules. You can all read the conclusion, it's on the site, the most dangerous two. First of all, there's an extension of the law to enterprises whose privatization is prohibited. Due to bankruptcy, we can make shadow privatization, which, I'm afraid, is now a huge risk. Second, bankruptcy is allowed, along with kindergartens and dormitories. Now, in any operation, they have to be transferred to the property of the local community. If we vote for this rule, a lot of people will be selling along with their dormitories, and I think there's not one national MP who has a call from those for whom it hurts. Therefore, the request to the authors to withdraw this bill, remove corruption from there and then legitimize bankruptcy. In this editorial, the Self-Help faction has decided to vote in favour of rejecting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion showed that the bill did not have the unity of the hall. So that we can make a decision, I'll propose and ask. Mr. Yegor or Oleg? Mr. Yegor! If you reread it, can it be supported? It can be supported. Colleagues from Fatherland who were against it. If again first, can it be supported? To be sent to the Committee for Rereading, there is such a rule as the Rules. So that we can remove those standards that Yegor was talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mrs. Kugel, well, I'm telling you, help that is prepared by the Legal Department, which are the forms of the bill. The first is to accept as a basis; the second is to reject; the third is to return the subject to the legislative initiative; the fourth is to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading; the fifth is to accept as a basis and as a whole. I propose one of those rules so we don't lose the bill. Colleagues, for re-reading to the committee. Is rereading the first reading appropriate? Is that right? What it will give. I'll do it first. Colleagues, can we unite around such an offer? Then I propose a vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. First I'm going to put the proposal on a base and then the next one, if this doesn't get most of it. Colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine (to improve the effectiveness of bankruptcy procedures) (number 3132) as a basis. Who supports the proposal on the basis, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:35:28]] For 184 184 for. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, now that we've agreed, I'm making an offer. Everyone supported her, didn't they? Turn around. send it to the committee for re-reading. Colleagues, all in, colleagues? Vote? Yeah? Are colleagues, once again, supported by those who were opposed? Why? Vote. So who supports the proposal to send to the committee for the rereading of Law 3132? Whoever supports this proposal so that we don't lose the bill, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Re-reading, voting, colleagues. [[11:36:25]] For 223 223. Don't you have a card? We'll be right back, but please be careful. Let's go back, two votes of a colleague, and we'll come back and vote. Colleagues, carefully, please. Colleagues, I'm making a proposal, I'm making another offer. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm once again making an offer to send to the committee for the re-reading of Law 3132, for re-reading. To be sent to the committee for re-reading, Mr. Sergey. It's a normal offer to work there. Whoever supports this proposal, 3132, please vote. Colleagues, we vote, please vote. Please vote. Vote! [[11:37:33]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. I'm asking the committee to take these amendments into account, they sounded in the hall. And then we can see exactly what adjustments are needed. It's a good thing we haven't lost the bill, and we'll believe that we'll be able to make a decision soon. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, when you want to tell me something, don't shout it out, don't hear it. Fellows, I want to tell you two things. One, we already have a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states, the Parliamentary Assembly and international organizations for the holding of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea. An important decision that needs urgent attention, since the Russian Federation plans to conduct pseudo-divorcs in occupied areas, we need a parliamentary response. And I'm going to ask you to support, put this question in order the next day and look at it if there's a general position. And I'm going to expect and count on the support of all the factions. But now there's been a statement before this question about a break from two factions -- the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block. The faction heads were told that they were ready to replace the performance. That is why, according to the Rules, we give the floor. Who will act? Mr. Yuri Berezi. After that, I'll ask you to support our international agreement. Please, Mr. Yuri, turn on the microphone for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u107	Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! You know, speaking up has made me do the things that have been going on for the last two years. And maybe not for two years, but 25 years in our country's information space. It's one of the things that's happening today. We've forgotten again what was discovered quite recently. I want to remind you of the correspondence that was discovered between the ideologist of the Inter Channel and some representatives, colleagues here, the national MPs. You know, it saddens me that we've been fighting ideologically and physically with the aggressor country for two years. Without hindrance, we have not yet clearly understood that ideological war is more important, perhaps by what is happening now on the collision line. And you know, when there are MPs like Kapplin walking through the channels, for example, and he starts to talk about how he and his good people are concerned, whether it's understandable how he's concerned about the future state of Ukraine, how it's concerned about the Ukrainian people in general, when he sees the correspondence that these are successful projects of Russian gay people, it's sad and painful for me to look at it. So from the People's Front, we give the people's ballads -- the Inter Channel -- a tool that they have to work on. [[Applause]] And you know, and you know what's important? The main thing is that the ideological war has not stopped, it is now going through the front. I'm not going to address, for example, the fifth column, the Cloud. Because that's clear, this is a project by Russia. They will tell us about the values of Soviet power and everything else. I want to talk to my colleagues. Friends, from our union, our understanding of the country’s further development, our lack of distractions, and the understanding of the future state depends on the future of our children, our grandchildren. I don't know, maybe there's kids and grandchildren living in another country, abroad, mine -- no, I don't have anywhere to go. So I call on all the patriots, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u108	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u109	I am ideologically stressing, ideologically speaking today what we have become a nation, we have united and stood together, including in the information war. We have nowhere to go, Ukraine is alone. Glory to Ukraine!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u110	Thank you. And with your permission, Your Honor, I will appeal to you once again to support the consideration of Decree 5075 at this time. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to point out that decree 5075 is in order today. My proposal is to move it now. And I'm going to ask the room to support this proposal right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, honourable colleagues who support the proposal to now review the draft Order on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of Foreign States, Parliamentary Assemblys and International Organisations for the holding of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea (No. 5075) at the request of Chubarov, Djemilev, please vote. Please support them. Please vote. [[11:44:04]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Hope Anna Mikolayevna. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u111	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The need for such a decision is due to the election of September 18 to the State Duma of Russia. These parliamentary elections will be the first after the military occupation of the Ukrainian peninsula. I want to say that through the joint efforts of parliamentarians, diplomats, international organizations, our diaspora, no country in the world has any international organization recognized this unprecedented redistribution of borders with military force. The international community stands firm in the position that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol are integral parts of Ukraine’s sovereign territory. I also want to say that the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation have also been condemned in numerous decisions of the European Union, NATO, the Council of Europe, resolutions of parliamentary assemblies, the OSCE and many other organisations. And for that, I also wanted to thank every deputy who actively joins and advocates our interests with you in the international arena. We therefore propose to ask the parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies and international organizations to refrain from participating in monitoring the progress of the parliamentary elections in the Crimea and, under any circumstances, not to acknowledge their results. To achieve these goals, our international partners must be active and not indifferent. That's why we're asking them to publish official statements about the illegality of admitting the results of the elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation because they were held in the occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which belongs to Ukraine. Such statements are delegitimate in the eyes of the international community of those representatives of the Russian Parliament, who will be elected as a result of the elections held in Crimea. It is also important that those who will be elected to the occupied peninsula do not join any parliamentary assemblies in key international organizations, since this can be a mere testimony to the legitimacy of the occupation and annexation of the Ukrainian peninsula. We have virtually no doubt that the Russians will go to such provocations as many others. In our address, we also remind foreigners who may decide to make a visit to occupied territory to observe illegal elections, that Ukrainian law enforcement agencies will act harshly as a result of violating the rules of entry into the peninsula and harming Ukraine’s national interests. These foreigners will be called to account for violations of Ukrainian legislation. Colleagues, just the continuation of compliance by states and international organizations with the consistent position and condemnation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, the condemnation of occupation and the non-recognizance of the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol will allow for the restoration of sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of our state in internationally recognized borders. At its meeting on Tuesday, the committee considered the above-mentioned text of the decree, unanimously recommended that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole, and also that it be confirmed by adding to the title of the decree and the phrase "the city of Sevastopol". Please support this draft decision. And once again, we urge you to work together, because in the fall season, we have some very important tasks. It's getting a visa-free regime, it's increasing sanctions against the Russian Federation to see the end of some kind of disruption, especially in the security and humanitarian spheres. Thank you all for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think Parliament will be unanimous. I think we can move on to the discussion. And only with your permission will I give the speech. Colleagues, we can obviously talk about support for a long time. There's one person who has to say the word for it, Chubarov. And I invite him to the rostrum. And I'm going to ask you immediately after his speech to move on to making a decision. So in the discussion. Mrs. Svetlana, there's no MP here who wouldn't want to say a word in the hall for a minute. It'll probably be a few hours. Chubarov, please go to the rostrum. Then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u113	Dear head, dear colleagues, I won't be long to speak. I would like to thank the authors of this statement and the text of the statement. We have to vote today. It is clear that the Russian Federation that occupied Crimea will try to make another attempt to find its supporters in the West, saying that there was not only a referendum in Crimea in 2014 but also an election in the National Parliament of the Russian Federation. And this, as they try to show, seems to indicate the true position of the people of Crimea. In fact, the people of Crimea, in a large part, are preparing for the boycott of these elections. Accepting this decision will also be moral support. I'm just, uh, honorary colleagues and Hanna Mikolayevna, and I'd like to propose some clarifications on the text. The word "parliamentary elections in Crimea" is used throughout the text. Let's add: illegal parliamentary elections, and so on throughout the text. One second. It is said that we appeal to authoritative international organizations to those deputies who will be elected. Let's put it this way: "those persons who will be identified by illegal elections."and other things I propose to support. I believe that our honourable colleagues will support this decision by a overwhelming majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm going to put to the vote with the amendments that Mr. Chubarov announced for the stenogram from the rostrum. Dear colleagues! I'll put it to a vote. The discussion is over. And I'm putting to the vote the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies and international organizations for the holding of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea (No.5075), as amended, which the National Deputy of Chubarov announced for the stenograph from the Supreme Council's rostrum, as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:51:34]] For 258. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can hear you, don't scream. I'll do it again. So there were a lot of complaints before the Supreme Council that the button didn't work for the vote. I don't know what the technical difficulties are, but because these complaints have become mass, I'm going to put the vote again. Colleagues, why don't we run some ratings to see if it works? Do we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, we're voting again. In view of many complaints from the hall, I am voting on draft regulation 5075 as amended (for the transcript), 5075 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:52:47]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you all for your support. And I'm asking you to include the factions to see how much Ukrainian Parliament is all Ukrainian. And I'll read it with your permission. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 114 – "for", "National Front" – 69, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 25, Radical Party Laska – 16, "Fatherhood" – 18, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the People" – 4. Thank you, colleagues. And I would also like to announce in a timely fashion that a final version of the statement that concerns the decision of the Seima and the Senate of Poland is being prepared today. Now, at two o'clock, a committee will meet to consider it. And we're at four o'clock, and I'm going to recommend that we move on to his consideration at the request of a number of factions' heads. And, colleagues, we have more, we've passed all the laws on first-reading deregulation. We have each other in the second reading, just a few rights, 2774. Are you ready? Can I keep going? There's a few rights there, colleagues. Tell me, can we? A few rights literally. Then, by exercising my right, I continue for 15 minutes until the finalization of the bill. And since this is the second reading, we're going to look at it. There's a big request to stay in the hall. Corrections are just a few. I think we can get through them quickly and efficiently. Thus, the next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure the realization of the right to convert money requirements to society for contributions to its statutory capital No. 2764. And I invite the head of the committee of Halasjuk Viktor Valeriovich to report. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u115	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I present to you Bill 2764 for second reading. This is an extremely important bill that introduces better European practice in Ukraine. I would like to thank the authors and Mr. Semenesi, particularly for initiating this bill. What is its purpose? If there is an enterprise that has a debt, such as a company or a person, and this business cannot be accounted for, there are essentially few options. In the end, this could lead to bankruptcy. In order to prevent such situations and to create a mechanism that prevents bankruptcy, this law provides for the possibility of converting corporate debt into statutory capital. I mean, if you're guilty and you can't get paid, because of the increase in statutory capital, you can become its co-owner, so you can save the business, it can still do its job. An extremely powerful idea. I want to point out that we've been doing this in a wide field on the committee, involving experts, the economy, the profile associations, and so on. What was specified in the second reading is very important, for some questions raised complaints at the first reading. We have clarified them, corrected them, and please listen to what we have done. We have established a peremptory standard that does not allow for the release of a member of a limited society from the obligation to contribute to the statutory capital of society. The statutory capital payment was assumed to be allowed only if the statutory capital was increased. The increased requirements for the number of participants to vote in general congregations were foreseen to accept this new participant. It was supposed to be accepted not just by the majority of those present at the meeting, but by more than 50 percent of the owners of corporate particles in statutory capital. It's very important. A participant who owns more than 20 percent of the votes has been given the right to demand an assessment of the independent’s financial requirements as a contribution to statutory capital. And perhaps most important. We have limited the possibility of including the requirements in statutory capital of societies, which is part of statutory capital of which belongs to the State or the territorial community. So we've protected state and municipal property from the risks of washing it through this mechanism. In this way, we foresee a very necessary mechanism for the private sector of the economy to prevent bankruptcy, convert the debt of the enterprise into a corporate portion of the creditor. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you very much to support this bill for the second reading in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u116	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I will ask for your support in the second reading and in general as a law with technical and legal rights. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Colleagues, right-wing authors, we go to the right-hand side. And I'm asking the National Deputies not to disperse, the right hand is literally a few, to prepare for the vote, to invite MPs into the room. 17th. Don't insist on Mrs. Oksana. 27th, Levenchenko. 20th. Okay, 20th, Levenchenko. Now, just a second. Oh, according to the paper, I've got it written. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u119	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, it's not my correction at all, it's "edited." Look at the situation here, I have two adjustments, this and the next situation is similar. The positive bill has a number of positive norms, but there is one essentially terrible norm that follows through the bill, and unfortunately it's not corrected despite the rapporteur's assurance. The point is that, by means of essentially fictitious debts, the majority owner of the enterprise, especially if he has his own principal and, in most cases, the majority of the majority owners have their own principals, can in fact dissipate the minority owners and, by means of fictitious debt obligations, create close - knit persons and increase their share. Therefore, this amendment tells us that such debt obligations can be considered as part of an enterprise only by written consent of all the members of the association, by written consent of all the members of the association. So this possibility, this thing is actually going to stop any sort of raiding capabilities from blurring minority packets. That's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Would you comment, Mr. Victor? Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your offer. We've looked at it on the committee and we think it's the most optimal option on the one hand that will allow you to take your proposal essentially into account, both in philosophy and in spirit, and on the other hand, will allow the possibility that this law will work. So we have foreseen, together with Mr. Semimenah, the obligation to agree to the inclusion of such a new participant by more than 50 percent of the total votes in the general meeting of the participants is a rule that is consistent with the principle of consistency in legislation. Because if we predict the veto as you suggest today, this law just won't work, because any minority that has even a 0001 vote, it can block this procedure and essentially the enterprise will go bankrupt. That's why I'm asking you, the committee editor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u122	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 20 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. It's still an amendment, it's not the law itself. [[12:01:12]] For 105 The system's not working, is it? It's some kind of cyberattack on Parliament. My colleagues, I'm sorry, we have something going on with the voting system. Colleagues, let's just do any vote right now, I'll put that vote again and see what's going on. Colleagues, so once again, who supports the amendment of the 20 People's Deputies of Lechchenka, please vote and see if all the cards work. Whoever supports this vote, please vote. [[12:02:04]] For 133 The system's not working. Don't raise a hundred hands. I can hear and see that it's not working. Let's talk about what to do, because there's probably only one thing to do, so we should probably take a break and vote after the break. But, colleagues, look. Attention! Stop! I'm asking you very much. An important bill has support in the hall. At 12:30, we're just going to have few deputies. Colleagues, don't leave, please. I'll put another bill on the table at 12.30, and I'll put it on the vote when the MPs come. In the face of technical problems, is it true, Mr. Victor? Which came up in the voting system, I'm giving an order to the Apparatus during the break to solve these problems, and I'm calling it a break until 12.35, and we'll finish the discussion after the break. Thank you, colleagues. At 12.35, we're meeting in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u123	Honorable Colleagues, 12:35 C.E. Time for recess is over, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please. Dear colleagues, once again I urge you to enter the hall, take your jobs, get ready for work. Colleagues, please start work. I was told that a powerful cyberattack was reflected in the apparatus. Buttons don't work, they don't blink. We can make decisions. System failures have led us to be one of the bills. did not complete his consideration. That's why we're finishing his consideration after the break. Now I'm announcing a bill, which is next in line. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care for orphans and children deprived of parental care (number 4784). This bill is in the second reading, it doesn't need a short-reading procedure. The right hand is not much, but it is. And I'm asking everyone to move on to productive work, as it was before the break. And I invite the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Dr. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies, Your Honor, in the first reading of this bill (4784) "On the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care" on the mentoring of orphans and children deprived of parental care. It was here, near this rostrum quite a lot of national MPs, probably more than 20 and no negative. I didn't say anything about this bill. So I think we should really accept it today. There were 84 amendments to the bill. For example, more than 50 amendments are accepted or partially rejected. Therefore, taking into account the discussion at the committee’s meeting, it is proposed that the following principles be further amended. First of all, it is suggested that it be extended to all children living in residential institutions. I want to point out that the vast majority of orphans are assigned to family forms of parenting. But almost a hundred thousand children who are in difficult circumstances live in boarding and boarding facilities, and they also need mentors. Accordingly, according to the requirements of article 52 of the Constitution of Ukraine, all authority regarding the organization of instruction has been delegated to social services centres for the family, children, and young people who have appropriate cooperation agreements to involve social and charitable organizations. That is, all responsibility rests on social services centres, and they can delegate part of their responsibilities in mentoring, mentoring, etc. to public and charitable organizations. That's why I'm asking. We've supported the Main Science and Technology Administration. All the questions that are left with the principles here are norms, but all the other questions have to be deciphered in the relevant sub-legislative acts that are entrusted with the development of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I'm asking you very much to adopt this bill. Because, really, here is not just the political will, the will is what we have to think for these children, our orphans. I think the whole room, as we discussed in the first reading, is going to have to accept the bill 100 percent in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u125	Please, one minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u126	That's all. I'm done, and if you do, you can go to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to the right. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go after the rebuffed amendments. 7th, Pawel. Don't insist. 8th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u128	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, I would like to point out that with regard to this bill, it's one of those rare cases, and I'd even like to isolate it, or some people would say that I'm just criticizing. So I'd like to thank the right person. to those who worked on the second edition, that in principle all my corrections, even where it's written, that they're rejected, are essentially accounted for. So I'm telling the chairman right now that I can save time, I'm not going to insist on any amendments, because they're essentially all my corrections taken into account, so I thank the people who did the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And also thank you to the committee for such quality productive work. And yet I'm going to call the amendments, and you're going to be talking whether you insist or not. Nine, Anointed. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u130	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I think we should now support the reporter who is now on the rostrum. It's really a bill that we shouldn't break, and we shouldn't argue for long, but give him a chance to live. My amendment 9 referred to the fact that on the first reading we approved this law, which stated that only public organizations were involved in the organization of instruction. My amendment concerned that we should give both the public organizations and the centres the right ones, but the committee had decided to give these powers only to the centre. So if the reporter on the rostrum says that this amendment is impossible to vote and the committee does not support it, I will not insist on its approval and I will call on the entire faction and the entire House of Parliament to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Mr. John, is there a need to comment? Please have one minute to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u132	I am very grateful for the real understanding and support of the bill, but it is still quite a number of such amendments that the People's Deputy of Amazanova admits that the Committee has recognized the responsibilities of social services centres for the organization of mentoring in article 17.1. So I'm counting on you to put it to a vote, no. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u133	Thank you. Anointed One does not insist on voting. 10th, Pawel. Don't insist. 12th, Captain. He insists. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u134	Thank you very much. I'm going to take this one minute, I'm not going to insist on any of my amendments anymore, the committee worked as a working group. Fellow MPs who are not yet in the hall or who are busy with their affairs, I have to contact you right now. Today there were many economic issues, exports, services and licenses, and so on, but now it is very rare when child protection is brought into the hall. Moreover, children with either no family or no family care are properly cared for. And you have a chance to show, in principle, maybe not the only one for this session of caring for these children. Please, have a good time. Very few deputies in the hall. We need to uphold this law and vote. And, God forbid, we're going to fail it, because the resocialization of these children, that's 100,000 children, is very important. I ask everyone to return to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Helena, for your support. And I also urge the deputies to enter the hall. And hopefully, we'll quickly go through the revisions and move on to the decision-making process. So 13th, Pauline. Don't insist. 16th, Captain. Don't insist. 18th, Captain. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 26th, Pawel. Don't insist. What's the number? 21st, insists Pavlovenko National Deputy. Please turn on the microphone, please. Please turn on the microphone. Do not be overwhelmed by opposition. Pavlenko's microphone, please. I strongly request that you turn on the microphone to Pavelenko. Yeah, you'd try to push the card, it'd be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u136	It's not working. It's a diversion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u138	It's a diversion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u139	From the highest rostrum of Ukraine, Mr. John will speak, with your permission, for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u140	The honourable national deputies mentioned in this law refer to who is to conclude the treaty and who is responsible for the child’s fate when his mentor takes on some form of companionship and preparation for adult life. The article proposes that a contract be concluded between its own mentor, institution, administration, and the social services center of the family, children, and young people. With my amendment, I propose to raise the level of responsibility for the child’s fate to the body of care and care. The body of care and care is a district government administration or a city council, and the head of the care and care body is personally the head of the regime and the city’s head. I would like to emphasize once again that this law is created not to ensure the wishes of teachers, or adults, but to protect children. And knowing what a social service center is for families, children.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u141	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u142	The social center of the family, children, and young people, which has been virtually reduced by 12,000 employees in recent times and is usually 1-3 people per district, will simply not be able to control the child’s fate. So I would like to support the amendment and raise the level of responsibility and correspondingly sign the treaty on the body of care and care, and personally head of the regime or the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u143	Thank you very much. Is there a need to comment, Mr. John? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u144	I think the amendment is partially accounted for. The committee decided to extend the category of children in charge. And we still have a child's right, which is quite a lot. The President-designate of the rights of the Kuleb child, Mikolaiovich, will now say how much he has done to give life to the bill. So I think if, on this issue, Mikolayovich, please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u145	Turn on the microphone. One minute, Kuleba.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u146	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u147	Now, for a second, the camera is about to turn on your ability to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. But in view of your amendment, we took it into account, because the social services centers are the ones responsible for organizing the mentoring. And the guardianship and guardianship of this law will control this activity. So they're going to have control. So I think all these questions are included in the law. Therefore, if the head of the district administration wishes, not only to desire, it will be his responsibility before the law to control this activity. And I ask once again, having the opportunity, please pay attention to the national deputies in the hall. And I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u149	Thank you, thank you for your clarification. But as I understand it, Mr. Yuri insists on voting. I will, with your permission, put to the vote the amendment of 21 People's Deputies. The supporter of Amendment 21 Pauline, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. 21 revisions. Who's in? Please be supportive. [[12:52:19]] For-138 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the tech to report on the voting situation. Who didn't? Yours didn't count, did you? Colleagues, come on, we'll put it up again. I'm going to run a rating vote. Not by the law, not by the law. And we're going to check the level of readiness of our system. I ask you to take part in the rating vote and see if your voice shined as you voted. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please vote and watch carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. Now. Can you include the rating vote, colleagues? So I see I have the same screen as you. Please take part in the rating vote, please. [[12:53:37]] For 208 Thank you. Whose voice was not counted? It's okay. Don't panic! The enemy wants us and is waiting for us to panic. We have to show firmness and consistency. Colleagues, so I'm going to reapply the 21st. Whoever supports Amendment 21, please vote. 21 Pavlovka's repair. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:54:12]] For 171 Correction not accepted. The decision is not made. Colleagues, let's work more dynamicly, because everyone supports it, and I keep counting the revisions. 29th, Pawel. Don't insist. He insists. 31st. 26th insists. Look, maybe your card's already working. 26 amendments. Pavlovenko, a national MP, insists. Please turn on the microphone to Pavelenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u150	And then there was the 25th before that. It also applies to the involvement of the guardianship and care body in the responsibility for the child’s fate. I'd like to put the 25th in. It's very important. Believe me, I know what a social service center is for families, children, and young people. And when we're responsible for the fate of a child who's already been through very serious, painful changes in her life, tragedy, and we're increasing the risk because we don't know who the mentor is. They could be different people, you know. We raise it to the level of the head of the administration, we don't take that risk completely, but we minimize it at least. So I'm very much asking the hall to support this amendment. I know that there were different thoughts on the committee, and there was no objection at all. And yet take responsibility for the child's fate to the level of the head of the care and care body, the city head and the head of the administration, as it is for the fate of the child that goes into the foster home, into the children's home.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Comment, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u152	I'll say it's the same amendment, and it's partially counted. Whatever you say, it's partially accounted for. And I think, and the head of an administration paradise or the mayor of any city, they're involved in this issue, as the Authorized Child's Rights have already said. So I don't think we should take responsibility for keeping the social services center contract. I think it's taken into account and I don't understand why Pauline asks this question for a vote when it's partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u153	Thank you. But the author has the right to insist. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 25 of the Pavlovka People's Deputies. Please, whoever supports this vote, please vote. [[12:56:58]] For-160. The decision is not made. So, Mr. Yuri, 26, you don't insist. Are you insisting? Mr. Yuri, I'm only asking you very much to insist on basic things, because I'm afraid we're going to get into a discussion and not go to a decision where there is really a fundamental and important moment. After the 26th amendment, please turn on Mr. Yuri Pavlenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! I've had about nineteen amendments there, but two, actually, are fundamental -- that's what we've no longer supported and that's the second principle of amendment that I've insisted on, and it predicts that the guidance agreement is made in writing and I'm proposing to complete it "with the child's written consent and a term not exceeding 12 months." Why this is so important because the absence of such a contract and the setting up of a child without a child’s consent also poses a risk to the child and opens the way for pedophiles and interstate adoptive parents. And there's a huge risk, I saw it, I know how it was 10 years ago. Today, adoption, when a child becomes a family member, is done by the consent of a child — yes, not written — because there are babies. It's in the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u155	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u156	The child went to the family of a teacher, and that is possible. Because mentoring is a temporary form of caring for the child and preparing him for his own life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u157	Thank you. Do you, Mr. John, comment, or do you, Mr. John?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u158	Let Koleba
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u159	Please turn on Mr. Kulebi’s microphone to comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Yuri and the distinguished national MPs! We've taken this correction into account, we're actually taking the consent of the child, not. Dear National Deputies! This amendment was taken into account, and the bill states that guidance is carried out according to the consent of the child. But neither adopted nor accepted families nor DBST accept written consent. Because there are children in five, seven years of age, they cannot write, children with mental problems cannot write in writing, so this will limit instruction. Hence, we rely on the Family Codex as it is in the Family Codex and leave it to the child to agree, but we have been removed in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u161	Thank you. Does Mr. Yuri insist on voting? Thus, the amendment of the 26 national MEP Pauline, who supports the amendment, is put to the vote, please vote. Please. [[13:00:15]] For 128 128 for. The decision is not taken. I'd like to ask you for a more dynamic job. 31st, Pawel. Don't insist. 33rd, Pawel. Don't insist. 36th, Pawel. Don't insist. 39, Captain, reported that she was no longer insistent. 41st, Shuhevich. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on Mr. Yuri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u162	The point of my amendment is this. A teacher may not be the person listed in article 212 of the Family Code, but I would like to add that he cannot be a mentor also a person who. has been proven to be a member of a sex minority. Believe me, I have experience what might happen. That the child's fate could be broken then. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u163	Thank you. Who will comment? You, Mr. Ivan? Please, Mr. Ivan. The dome. You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u164	I'll say that, really, there are requirements for teachers here, but I'll say the requirements are in. We have requirements for adoptive parents, where we also adopt children. I think that the requirements for adoptive parents and mentors should be in one form. Teachers should not be higher here than adoptives. That's why I think so. Well, it's not like that, it's an amendment of character. So I think we rejected her on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u165	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Suhevich insists on voting. I'm voting on Amendment 41. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:02:18]] For-162 The decision is not taken. 42nd, Captain. Don't insist. 45th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 53rd, Captain. Don't insist. 55th, Captain. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 60th, Timoshenko Yuri. Don't insist. 66th. Is the 36th insisting on Pauline? Please, 36th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this law must be primarily aimed at protecting children, orphans, children, deprived of parental care, and those who are in difficult circumstances. Regrettably, this law is more designed to satisfy the needs of adults, not children, their desire to show their humanity or charity. And that's essentially not right. With regard to this amendment, I propose that the treaty loses power not when the child is adopted but when the contact between the adoptive parent and the child is established. Then the treaty ends, and the child keeps in contact with a potential father and mother, and the third party loses sight of the process of adoption or of the various forms of manipulation. So I suggest that the treaty loses its power, except when the child has already made contact with the adoptive father and the adoptive father.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u167	Thank you. Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u168	Again, once again, I'm going to say that it's all included in the Bill of Supplements. Well, we turned it down on the committee. I think we should consider the members of the Supreme Council, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u169	Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 36th People’s Deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:04:36]] For-138 The decision is not taken. So let's move on. Dear colleagues, there are 5-6 amendments left. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall in a few minutes, and we'll move on to the decision-making process. 70th, Captain. Don't insist. 73rd. Don't insist. 74th--Paulenko. Don't insist. 77th - Anointed. Don't insist. 78th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 79th Levenchenko. Don't insist. 82nd – Šuhević. Don't insist. And that's how we discussed all the amendments. During the discussions, it was found that there was not only support for the bill but also a profound understanding of the importance of the bill, its adoption. And so I ask all my fellow MPs to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, take your seats, and let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care for orphans and children deprived of parental care (No. 4784). The committee proposes voting for him in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, in the second reading and in general, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:06:47]] For 247 The law is passed. Decision taken. I welcome the committee, all the authors for the fruitful, systematic work that provides an example of how the decision-making system should work in Parliament, and the law is adopted. Colleagues, before the break, a technical malfunction led to a halt in our discussion of question 2764 of the draft law. Now that we see that the system works, we can complete its discussion, and so I ask you to return to the rostrum of the committee of Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. We have two adjustments left. Please remain in the hall, the vote will be in two minutes. I'll set it up, Mr. Yuri. I'll definitely put it in. So our work was stopped at the discussion and vote of amendment of People's Chamber No. 27, if I'm not mistaken. Give me a number. [[B in m in s a l in]] 20. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion at Amendment 20. We discussed it, but there was a breakdown during the vote for the amendment. So I'm re-voting. Whoever supports Amendment No. 20 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[13:08:32]] For 158. 158 for. The decision is not made. 27 Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u170	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would like to draw the attention of the hall once again to a very important question and also to answer the reporter to a certain point after the previous amendment. This amendment of mine refers essentially to the same question. It was said that if you put a requirement of 100 percent acceptance of all members of the society in exchange for a debt to part of the society, it would seem to stop this process in some way and make the shoe of the law impossible. I completely disagree. The point is that if there is really a goal to replace real debts that stop the work of a working society from being part of the company, and not simply by raiding the minority particles, then no minority will contradict and oppose it. So why would a minority destroy its own value, the cost of its own share in this society by blocking this process, it's completely illogical. So in this amendment, as I did in the past, I would suggest that these processes are possible only with the consent of 100 percent of the members of the relevant society, so that there is no land-mineering.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u171	Thank you. Mr. Victor, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your offer. I want to emphasize why the profile committee chose the model exactly 50 plus a percent. Based on the principle of consistency, I was especially on, and now I've printed the "Consequential Associations" Act. Article 59 provides that the competence of the general congregations of members of a limited society shall include the establishment of size, form, arrangements for additional contributions by participants, the decision on the acquisition of a part of a member by the association and similar matters, and it is clear from the rules of the law in force that these matters are resolved by 50 percent of the votes of the total number of members of the association. So, based on the principle of consistency, we have foreseen a similar standard in this bill. That's why we insist on editing the committee. For today, there is no analogy in order to allow 100 percent of the participants to change. It just didn't work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u173	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u174	Thank you. I ask you once again to support this extremely important bill in the drafting of the committee on technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u175	Thank you. But the national MP insists. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 27th People's Deputies of Lewchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:11:41]] For 121 The decision is not made. Colleagues, we're going into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that a decision will be taken. 28th Amendment, Vanat. Don't insist. 30th, Vanat. Don't insist. 33rd, Vanat. Don't insist. So we're done discussing the draft law. All the amendments that were rejected, we spoke and made decisions about them in the hall. So we can move on to the decision-making process. And, colleagues, I'm very much asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I am very much asking you to prepare for the vote because many reporters have stressed the importance and relevance of making decisions. And we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm really inviting you to the workplace. Colleagues! So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the right to convert money requirements to society is met for contributions to its statutory capital (number 2764) for a second-reading committee and generally with technical legal rights. Colleagues who support this decision, please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:14:02]] For 207 207 for. What happened in the hall? There was general support. Colleagues, let's do factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of vote. Okay. Dove, one minute of vote. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u176	My fellow Members, I urge you to go back to reviewing the bill because the bill in question removes the gap in Ukrainian legislation and brings us closer to the introduction of an international business where there is a typical transaction called. [[English name]] There is no political subtext here. This is really a bill that brings our Ukrainian legislation closer to the requirements of European business. So, honourable colleagues, let's go back and adopt this bill as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u177	Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote back. But I'm asking you very much to get the deputies into the hall, but I'm also asking you to hold consultations in one minute so that you can find your position on the factions. I'm asking everyone to have this consultation now. One minute, Victor Halasyuk. And I'll put it on return. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this law because its essence is to prevent the bankruptcy of many businesses that cannot repay their debts, but under this law they will be able to account for a portion of the statutory capital on the basis of its increase, on the basis of the mutual consent of the parties and the enterprises and to whom it owes it. This is a completely transparent and correct economic law that will allow many businesses to continue their activities. I ask you to support him, Your Honor. This is the way to support entrepreneurship, to develop normal investment conditions. Well, is there any warning? Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u179	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to make an offer to come back. I ask you to be very careful. So my colleagues would like to prepare. I propose to return to the vote on draft Law 2764. If there are any warnings, we'll put them in. But let's go back. 2764 – return to voting. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[13:17:24]] For 234 We're back. Can I put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u180	Colleagues, please concentrate, prepare. I am voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the right to convert money requirements into society is realized for contributions to its statutory capital No. 2764 in the second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:18:10]] For 224 Colleagues, I beg you, two votes, that allows me to put it again. But please, colleagues, stand by the cards and vote. The first vote is to return to debate 2764. Please vote. 2764, return. Please vote, 2764, return. [[13:18:51]] For 218. Colleagues, this is starting to take on rude forms. There are discussions in the hall during the decision - making process. I'll give the head of the committee a minute to clarify the discussion issues that arise in the room. I would like to stress once again, if there's a discussion, give these warnings, tell them publicly. Please, Mr. Victor, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, once again, this does not apply to state utilities. I would also like to point out that today, in accordance with article 59 of the Law on Household Societies, the establishment of the size of the form, the procedure for making additional contributions by participants, the decision on the acquisition of a part of the participating society and similar issues require 50 percent of the general congregations for limited liability societies. This is an active norm, article 59 of the Law on Household Societies. All that this law does is foresee an additional mechanism essentially to increase statutory capital by converting debt liabilities, that is, another opportunity that allows business in the private sector of the economy to be mutually agreed by the parties to avoid bankruptcy. Well, why don't you get set up here, dear fellows? How much time have we lost? When is the law enacted? Support the adoption of this right law. Dear Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u182	Victor Pinzenik, one minute. Victor, there's a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u183	Dear colleagues who are concerned about many national MPs. What we're talking about, what kind of operation would have the right to exist if it wasn't for one "but." What a "but." Imagine someone taking your product, not paying for it. The money was floating. And instead of being counted, you are offered voluntarily. Dude, take my share of the capital. But there's no capital. That's why my offer is next. Let's get the law back to second reading, because this law has to be laid down by a lot of rules so that it doesn't become a tool for the derby. And there are also the risks of raiding our colleague, Jura, Yuri Lewchenko. So I propose to send the bill back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u184	Colleagues. No, it wasn't a question, Mr. Victor, the discussion is over. That was not a question. So there's a proposal that I can see that can unite the hall – re-reading the second reading. Is she all supported, colleagues? Then I'll put it in. But I'm going to put my colleagues on the way back, and then I'm going to reread the second reading. Is it accepted? Do you accept, colleagues, all of you? Then I put the first vote, the return to the vote of 2764, and then the second vote again. Anyone who supports the return of 2764, please vote. Please vote return. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote and please support. [[13:22:23]] For 237 237. We're back. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that Victor Pinzenik made for the second reading of the 2764 bill. Anyone who supports this proposal is re-reading 2764, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. 2764 - again others. [[13:22:59]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you to the head of the committee for such an inspired stand for the bill, but there are amendments, they should obviously be discussed on the committee. And I'm sure the next time he'll be supported in general in our room. Thank you very much. On this bill we have completed a block of laws on deregulation. The next block is going into decentralization. But there is a proposal before that to consider an important draft law that has been highlighted by several factions -- this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (4815). He's in second reading, he doesn't need a separate procedure, he's next in line. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sverk Grigory Aronovich. This is the first reading, but first, I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure before the report. Colleagues who support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please. [[13:24:21]] For-188. Decision taken. And I ask for a report from the Ukrainian National Deputy Sverk Grigory Aronovich. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u185	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please pay attention to this bill. From my point of view, his need was once again confirmed by the last days of the events that took place around the Inter Channel. Many feel that these events would not have happened if the public authorities had decided what was going on in Ukrainian television. Therefore, the bill proposes that the National Television and Radio Council apply fines to radio organizations in violation of Ukraine’s laws by these radio organizations. These penalties are a European norm that is applied by the European analogue regulator in many cases. Many of you have heard about the Polish regulator, for example, who applied fines to the Polish radio station when he was directly offended by Ukrainian women, which is an entirely European practice. So I ask you to be very careful about this and to vote on this bill, and to give the National Television and Radio Council the opportunity to apply fines in violation of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Organizations Act. I think that a lot of the problems in Ukrainian television wouldn't have been if the National Council had been effective in influencing lawbreakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u186	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u187	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On 6 July, a committee commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. As the reporter just said, the essence of this law is simple enough, it foresees the possibility for the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, an independent Ukrainian regulator in the field of electronic media, to apply such measures as fines on television channels. I would like to point out that fines are more flexible and softer than the warning that exists now. Because now we have a situation where the Nazrad can issue both warnings and that means automatic licensing. In the event of the application of the Nacrad fines, it can actually warn the TV channel in this way, and this will not result in the selection of the license and will not contribute to the fact that the TV channel can stop its speech. In general, the fine system has been working in Europe long enough and effectively, of course, many can observe the corruption of this action in relation to the National Council on Television and Radio. At the same time, given the dangers that today are in the information space, there are also questions, colleagues, because very many things that do not draw attention to a warning, factual, conditional warning can be brought to a fine and at the direction of a television channel that it conducts some kind of misinformation policy. We were on the committee yesterday looking at the situation with the "Inter" channel, which, at the concert until Independence Day, cut "Glory to Ukraine" from Alexander Ponomarov, just cut it out. What should the National Council do in this case? She did. Should I Give Warnings? Is there sufficient reason for this? The question is questionable. The question of a minimum fine could be applied in the form of, in fact, the instructions of a television channel that this is. Well, I guess that's the approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u188	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u189	Thank you. And given all these arguments, the committee, after a sufficiently lengthy discussion, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Law be approved in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. I'm asking people to sign up: two for, two against, to discuss this bill. And I very much ask the people's deputies to return to the session room, because in, literally, eight minutes, we're going to have a vote. Please sign up, colleagues. Please give Mr. Vlasenko the word Borislava Berezi to the non-factional. Turn on the microphone, please. He wants to go to the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u191	I want to thank the Fatherland faction for giving their word. It is indeed a very important law. Yeah, there's room for manipulation, but what kind of manipulation we're talking about when one of the manipulative politicians is normal. What do we say? When the faction that put the perfume on the break here, her head comes up to me and says, "Borislav, don't be offended! It's politics! Do you understand?" No, Your Honor, I don't understand! To me, this is blasphemy and hypocrisy! What they're doing, they're pressing their hand and they're saying, well, we don't understand is blasphemy! Just because their leader goes to Inter in 10 minutes is blasphemy! Just because they know it's wrong and they support it is hypocrisy. One of the people who was doing this thing came to me and said, "I'm sorry, I was set up." He's a decent person, I understand. Others don't. I don't really understand how they can be said to care for the people and then to fly on the screws of their own in Chernivka and to crush the production of forests there. I don't understand. Because I don't understand how they're doing here. Why? Because when we say, "This is your turn for Gordijenko," Your Honor, it's not politics, it's a disgraceful practice since Yanukovich. I remember you sitting in Parliament at the time. You don't like what we do? You don't like the fact that we're spying on you? I understand. Your place in the dumpster. You'll go there, and we'll change the country for the better. I want to say again, we must protect Ukraine, but we must not hypocrisy, we must not support injustice. And most importantly, I want to remind you that if we do something bad, then we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u192	Thank you. Ten seconds, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u193	Then don’t be surprised that this is what hurts us. But it wasn't "The Cloud" who voted in favour of taking off the Jaciny, and I remind you, it was your Jaciny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u194	Thank you, Your Honor. At the same time, I'm just calling on my colleague to discuss the bill when we signed up for the bill. Please, Mr. Princely of the People's Front. I ask you, I urge my colleagues to discuss draft laws, not each other. Mr. Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u195	Thank you. In terms of the bill, well, the author of this bill is not the People's Front, but a colleague of Sverk's from Peter Poshenko's Block, who has great experience working on the National Council for Television and Radio. And the People's Front, taking care of the nation's information security, will support this bill in the first reading, because this bill will allow not only to impose fines on severe violators of our national security, but also to control the activities of cable providers that often retransmit Russian propaganda. And I urge everyone in this room to be patriots, not in words and in the stands, but in action, and press the pros button. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u196	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for discussing the bill. The word is given to Mr. Lášk of the Radical Party of Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u197	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will not support the bill. I'll explain why. It's an attempt by the authorities to control the channels, it's an attempt by the authorities to put them under full control, although it's still complete today. When I'm being tried to convince that Nacrad, ruled by power, and cannot hold Inter responsible for anti-Ukrainian politics, don't fool people. The Nakrad closeds its eyes on the anti-Ukrainian editorial policy of "Intera", which is governed by Moscow, for one reason: because the owners of "Intera" had an agreement with the owners of Bankova. And in exchange for the loyalty of the television channel and all the other channels, the National Council does not see separatism and anti-Ukrainian activity in activities such as the Intera. Yesterday an interesting study was published in Vox Yukrein, which analyzed the tonality of mentions of the President of Ukraine on the main four national channels in the last two years. Dear colleagues who stand, sit down so that they do not fall. Thus, according to a study over the past two years, four major national channels reported either positive or neutral in 98 percent of the President’s activities. Only two percent of the thousands of memories are negative. We've got everything good in the country, we've got the economy, we've got the best policy of power, we've got the power to enrich Ukrainians, and that's why channels only praise power. Why Do They Glorify? Because total control, including through the National Council on Television and Radio. That is why we will not support this bill. And we demand that we resign under the control of the Nakrad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mrs. Wojcietsky of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u199	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u200	Passes the word, Mrs. Podowak. Turn on the microphone on in the stands, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank my colleague Sverke for the quality and proper preparation of the bill. The Self-Help faction will support this bill because we think that the television channels, their information policy, are run by the oligarchs. This bill gives the National Council, with members from all political powers, the opportunity to have a real impact on the anti-State content that places the radio organizations on its own air and on its own product. Not only television but also cable providers, including, very often in their networks, allowing not only anti - state information and spreading discord, religious discord. The activities of which are simply harmful to Ukrainian television. The existence of this bill closes a very huge lacuna that, unfortunately, is created in our country because we do not have an information policy. And we're expecting the Ukrainian Ministry of Information to present to the Ukrainian Parliament a clear, clear, transparent information policy aimed at protecting the country's national interests. So I urge you to support this bill and allow Nakrad to have a real tool for influencing oligarchic television channels, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u202	Thank you very much for your state position, dear colleague. Dear colleagues, we are now going literally in 30 seconds to the vote, and Mr. Sverke, the author of the bill, gives his word that he may withdraw these warnings that were made in the room during the discussion. And yet again, we invite colleagues from the buffet to return from the towers to the sessional voting room. Please, Shurk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u203	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank all the deputies who participated in this bill. Secondly, I want to make your point that this is about first reading and we're going to have a second reading. Before the first reading, we've done a lot of work with experts, with industry, and we have the support of many members of the expert community, and even the radio organizations agree that this law should be adopted. So we can make a working group and hear everyone who has something to say about the text of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u204	Thank you. Discussion's over, colleagues. I'd like to ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies into the Hall, and we'll move on to a decision. And I want to emphasize, colleagues, we're talking about the information security of war, oh, the state in time of war. I began this session with the words that we should remember every minute, under every decision that the Kremlin and Russia waged against Ukraine had many manifestations. And I dare say that an information attack is one of the key tasks and objectives of the Kremlin. And so all the decisions that will allow us to make greater and higher information security, they go to both the front and the state as a whole. I call on the people's deputies to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. And, dear fellows, I remind you, in the first reading, we only vote first reading. And all the corrections, the warnings that have been made by the different people's deputies, and that obviously makes sense, we can make it to the second reading. Colleagues, may we vote? I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (to improve the procedure for the application of sanctions by the National Council), number 4815 on the basis, colleagues, on the basis of the committee's proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. On the basis of this, please vote. [[13:41:02]] For the 250. Decision taken. Colleagues, in general, I see in the mood of a faction, it won't pass. This is going to be wrong. We have time to work on it. The only one we can shorten to the second reading. Colleagues, there's a request for a brief procedure in preparation for the second reading. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure for second reading, please vote. Short procedure for the second reading of the preparation. Please support me, please vote. [[13:41:48]] For 202 No support for reduced procedures. There is clearly a need for more serious study and training. Both the authors and the committee will prepare the bill as quickly as possible so that we can bring it to the session. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you for a minute. We have the next decentralization block. These are very important laws. If I'm not mistaken, 7 or 8 are bills. But he came to me. Then we have the release of the judges. Colleagues, attention, attention! The chairman of the committee came up and asked that the judges be released, perhaps now. They're pretty fast, questions. These are the judges who broke the oath, the DNR judges, from the occupied territories of the terrorist groups. If you don't mind, I'll move the judges for now, and we'll start decentralization from four o'clock. If it's okay with me, if there's room support, I'll put this proposal to a vote, colleagues. If not, let's move on to decentralization issues. Whatever the will of the hall is, that's what we'll decide. The removal of judges is just the next block. So, the colleagues who support the proposal that we're asking for exemption, only the judges' dismissal, have now considered who supports this position, and this opinion, as expressed by the committee, please vote, please support. Please vote. Change of order of the day: the release of judges now. [[13:43:34]] For 246 There's room support. Colleagues, then I very much ask you to be disciplined now. It's a series of regulations, we've almost reached them, but we've had a crisis and we haven't been able to solve it. Now we have to make a quick decision on the dismissal of the judges. Should we vote in favour of a shorter procedure, Ruslan? No, it's not. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. And I'm asking you to make a general position on all the decisions so that we can move on to making decisions. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u205	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I'm very short. Now we're going to be looking at six orders, four of which relate to one reason, and the judges voluntarily filed a resignation application. And so if there's the will of the room, we could not stand apart from each judge, but we can get the law in this case, if there's a general reason, to vote on the ruling in general on all the names you have in the projects. And two other projects. This is one project where we want to release the judges who are now doing justice in the terrorist DNR and LNR, and we're talking about ten judges. We need to separate them from each other. And the final verdict is the release of a judge who has gained legal power in a criminal case, he's in places where he's deprived of his will. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask, Mr. Head, for a position as I do, whether there is a need for all the judges to speak separately, or if you could just call the ruling number just the ones that we're not speaking to right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u206	Thank you. I've explained. By law, we can vote a decree in general without calling each judge. But please remain in the rostrum to advise us on every issue. I'd like to sleep in the hall, can we get to the vote? We can. Then I'll put the ruling first, I have it, 4939, Mr. Ruslan. Please, there is a short line and we vote. 4939.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u207	4939 is the Order on the release of Krukowski Oleg Anatoliyovich from office of Judge of the Kakhov District Court of the Hersonian Region in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment. We've already considered this question, if you recall. It's just time for his vote. Well, you've got the position, you're already sitting in places where you're going to be deprived of your will. And he needs to be released as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u208	Are we ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u209	Please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote. Secretariat, please report to the deputies. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm voting on Decree 4939.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u210	It's about deliberate murder. That's why I think it's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u211	On the dismissal of a judge in connection with the acquisition of legal force by a defendant’s sentence against him. On the basis and in general. Who supports 4,939 as a basis and as a whole, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[13:47:04]] For 266 Decision taken. Next Order 4940. Please, Mr. Ruslan, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u212	This is about those judges who are now unlawfully prosecuting the so-called DNRs and LNRs. And since we want them to be released for breaking their oaths, and we invited them to the meetings twice, they did not appear. Which allows us today to deal with the issue on a case-by-case basis and to vote on each of the names of the issues regarding their release for breach of oath. So that the procedure established by the Constitution is not violated. Therefore, I ask that each name be voted on separately. I'll call them with your permission, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u213	We all have separate ones. Only, Mr. Ruslan, they're not doing justice, they're committing a crime against an occupied opponent, they're collaborators, and they can't do any justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u214	I said, "so-called," "justice."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u215	Please, each name you call, we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u216	In connection with the violation of the judge’s oath to release Julius Alexandrovna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region, from his office. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u217	Please support the release of the judge. Please vote. [[13:48:20]] For 251 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u218	Larina Natala Alexandrovna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u219	Please vote. Can I have your back, please? Please vote. [[13:48:44]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u220	The regent Lilia Volodymyrna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u221	Please vote. Please vote. [[13:49:05]] For 251 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u222	Stratejchuk Ludmila Zinovievna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u223	Please vote. [[13:49:28]] For the 250. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u224	Janko Valentina Grigorovna, Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u225	Please vote. [[13:49:50]] For 249 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u226	Toloka Jurija Mikolaiovich, Amurosius District Court of the Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u227	Please vote. [[13:50:10]] For 251 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u228	Klešnova Aleksandra Ivanovich, Kalininsky District Court of Gorlovka, Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u229	Please vote. [[13:50:33]] For the 250. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u230	Federica Grigorija Mikolaiovich, Mikitovsky District Court of Gorlovka, Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u231	Please vote. [[13:50:54]] For 255 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u232	Taranjovska Valerija Sergiyovna, Bilionnev district court of Donetsk
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u233	Please vote. [[13:51:14]] For 255 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u234	Jeromina Dmitra Alexandrovich, Central City District Court of Makiyevka, Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u235	Please vote. [[13:51:36]] For 251
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u236	Petsty Marina Alexandrovna, Central City District Court of Makiyevka, Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u237	Please vote. [[13:51:58]] For 249 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u238	And the last is Nautical Catherine Hennadivna, the Donetsk District Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u239	Please vote. [[13:52:19.]] For 251 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. We voted in favour of releasing the Collaborators. It was a paradox that they had so far occupied the status of judges. Let's move on to the next 4697-2. Please, Mr. Ruslan, keep us informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u240	Please remove from this list of judges that you have in your hands the Vasilchenko Natalija Volodymyrovna, who withdrew the application and the appropriate appeal came to the Supreme Council of the High Council of Justice. And all the rest of the judges, to vote on this whole decision, so that I don't announce the entire list, you have everything on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u241	Colleagues! No, it's an exemption. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, so there's no intrigue: there's no decision to choose, we're just letting go. So whoever supports the 4697-2 resolution, as amended by Ruslan Knyazevitch, for the protocol in the Supreme Council's rostrum, please vote. Please be supportive. In general. Vote please, 4697-2. [[13:53:32]] For 267 Decision taken, decision taken. Next order 4697-4. Please inform the deputies, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u242	What about three?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u243	And three, I don't have three. Sound three.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u244	I'm asking from the list in Decree 4697-3 to remove Babenko Konstantina Anatoliyovich. We got a statement from the High Council of Justice that he called off the application, that's his right. The rest of all the judges in this decree, I ask you to release them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u245	We can't fire him, because we have withdrawals, we don't have them. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no statement. We don't have a statement. All documents returned to the High Council of Justice. It's his right. It's his constitutional right, I'm asking you not to violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u246	Okay. I'll put it to a vote as it goes. I am voting on the draft Decree 4697-3, as amended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. 4697-3, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:54:57]] For 268. Decision taken. Now 4697-4. Please inform, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u247	By this decree, the Superior Council of Justice revoked its documents concerning two judges: Parin’s Irina Costinovna and Savichenko Valentina Alexandrovna. All other judges, please make a decision on their release.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u248	Explain the point of the decision itself, and perhaps it will become clearer, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u249	In view of the fact that the judges are individual, they are 65 years of age, and this is the time limit for the judges to be released. And the rest are the judges who filed for resignation. Some of them are two until the moment of the vote in the session room and their application is recalled by the High Council of Justice, and we now have no basis in the Supreme Council to vote because there are no documents at the time of the vote in the session room. For everyone else, there are documents and we have to vote on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u250	I mean, I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u251	Parin's Irina Costinovna and Savechenko Valentina Alexandrovna, the rest of you please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u252	I emphasize, we vote on statements that we simply confirm and on the basis of their statements release them. Those documents that we have on them we vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u253	It's voluntary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u254	It's a voluntary withdrawal. So I'm voting on Decree 4697-4 as amended by the head of the Ruslan Knazevitch committee from the Supreme Council stand for the transcript. Whoever supports this ruling on the basis and in general, please vote. We're voting on our colleagues, please. [[13:56:41]] For 272 272 for. Decision taken. And the final ruling in the package of rulings on the dismissal of judges is Decree 4697-5 and Mr. Ruslan, and you can talk a few words about the substance of the ruling by reporting to the MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u255	Likewise, I ask everyone to be released except for the three who withdrew their statements this is Pavlishin O.F., this is Mikush U.R. – this is the Lviv Court and Kalashnikov's Helen Volodymyrna, O.V., the rest of the world is a great decision – please release them. I want to tell you guys, if we make a decision today, we're releasing half a dozen judges, that's what we're talking about, and I hope by the end of the month, we're going to have no less judges resign and the changes you've been talking about are finally starting to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u256	This is the ground for cleansing and the ground for re-energizing judicial authority. And so I'm voting on draft regulation 4697-5, as amended by the chairman of the Committee Ruslan Knazevitch for the transcription, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this decision please vote, please, colleagues, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u257	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u258	Please be supportive. [[13:58:02]] For 265 265 for. Decision taken, decision taken. Thank you very much, committee. Thank you very much for your active position. We've found the ground, we've cleared our position for the release of the judges. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a break now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there is. We have two minutes. On this point, let's make two speeches. One minute, Laszko and Vlasenko, and we're finishing our work by the judges. One minute, first, Easy, then one minute, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u259	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing the distinguished colleague of Ruslan Knazević and the Head of Parliament. We have a number of decisions regarding the temporary election of nearly 700 judges, whose five - year terms of office have expired. They're not in charge, they're still getting their salary. And this is actually all the people that were given back in Janukovic's day. I propose to Parliament that we consider this issue, we reject these rulings, we dismiss these judges and we give 700 judges a chance, that is more than ten percent of the judges in Ukraine, and we have the opportunity to conduct new competitions, to recruit new people into judicial positions if we want a real upgrade of the judicial system. Because we realize that most of those who want to choose for life are unlikely to deserve the support of citizens and society. At the same time, the budget costs nearly half a million dollars a month to pay their wages. We have to stop this!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u260	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u261	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. In fact, we did what we had to do. But I have a huge question to ask the committee: where is the decision on Father, and where is the decision on the other odyssey judges who are already on the committee large enough time? Why do we not vote on these judges, who are evidently to be released from their positions and the material that has long been considered on the committee? Colleagues, what are we doing? I understand that we did the function that we had to perform, the function, I thank the Supreme Council for that. But we also have other tasks. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have taken an important step. There will be normal work in Parliament, we will go through all stages. Unfortunately, the last time we had five orders to release judges, we had a standblock. Now another minute is Ruslan Knyazevich. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u263	First of all, I want to explain to my colleague, Sergey Vlasenka, that after our legislation has been voted on, the committee has no bearing on the question of the release of judges. This is the question of Parliament's leadership, simply, at the direction of the Head, we have prepared a draft ruling and, frankly, we have not been able to do otherwise, because it is his requirement. And as for the judges you're talking about, you know the situation that all the judges who have been judged by the High Council of Justice have submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court. And the Supreme Administrative Court actually canceled all the decisions of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, there is no legal basis in Parliament now in an unconstitutional way to resolve matters. Someone really wants us to settle this issue, and then in court, we cancel these things too. We know about these things, so we have to wait for the trial and then react as the Constitution says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m0.u264	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2 p.m., we had a very difficult but fruitful start in our work. I want to remind you, after lunch, the question of decentralization, seven laws on decentralization. I ask my colleagues very much, at 4:00, that we come together to the hall and continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4:00, we continue our work. Thank you very much, dear colleagues.
