ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we check in or wait a minute? All right, I'll wait. I'll wait another 30 seconds. Please. Yes, colleagues, I think we can register now, right? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[10:08:53]] 358 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. We have a birthday with our colleagues today: in Olesia Stanislavovich Long and in Maxim Viktorovich Efimov. We welcome our colleagues on their birthdays. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I would like to inform you on a question that caused a great and social resonance that yesterday in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was a registered decree on changes to the ruling that deletes paragraphs 3 and 4 on the salaries of Ukrainian national deputies. Last night, the media reported that I had signed the previous decree. But I want to let you know that I only signed it when I had a change decree on my hands that was actually signed by all the heads of factions and so on by the head of the budget committee. At a time when it was clear that the decision was ready and could only be made to the signed order, I signed the previous one. And today I am going to call on the distinguished colleagues of the national deputies so that we can vote on it. The Budget Committee met in the morning and supported the decision. I'm sure today we'll be able to settle the issue of wages and remove one of the vulnerable issues that is on the order of the day and which has caused great resonance in society. I would also like to report that today I have addressed all the factions' heads so that we can finally adopt a draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, and I hope that the national deputies of this initiative will be able to work fully. We've got two blocks of issues on the agenda: construction and housing and utility, as well as issues relating to finance and banking. And that's why I urge everyone to do their best. According to the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I would like to stress that today he is speaking from the MP factions and groups. And I'm asking you to record the performance. Please, Your Honor. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Olya's Mantis. Please, Mrs. Olu, three minutes to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good morning! Welcome, everyone, to the beginning of the new week of work, and hopefully it will be effective. I'd like to point out that this week. Five laws relating to health care will be considered. Unfortunately, the health situation today is extremely complex and needs an urgent solution. During this year alone, more than 4.5 thousand health - care workers have been released in Kiev as a result of their inability to survive on the salary that is available. Please support the development and approach of the Ukrainian health system to European standards during this week. For the first time in Ukraine, the Law on Medical Chaplainship, developed by the Health Committee with the Council of Churches, will be considered this week. The Law on Donorship, which allows blood to be given to people who are not citizens of Ukraine, will be considered. The Health Committee is also ready for second reading, and I am now requesting from this rostrum Mr. Paris to pass the Law on the Autonomization of Hospitals, which gives medical institutions the right to be more autonomous, to reduce or increase the number of beds and is, in fact, the first step towards implementing and implementing reforms. The law can be passed this week, it can be passed next week. An extremely relevant law, which is not passed in some way, 2820, is actually a law that allows us to prevent smoking in young people and thus increase life expectancy. I would like to remind Mr. Groissman and the Cabinet of Ministers from this rostrum that Law 4484 was passed by the Supreme Council, the main purpose of which is the cost of medicines. After this law, the Cabinet of Ministers had to develop regulations along with the Ministry of Health in order to finally make drugs in pharmacies available to people. Because today people decide whether to buy food or to buy medicines. At the same time, it is impossible to buy both food and medicine. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to set up a working group that will promote government procurement for domestic producers that allow them to make quality and produce that will be available to people so that they can buy it. Likewise, I am asking the Cabinet of Ministers to make an urgent decision on reference prices because in past purchases there have been terrible misuses of decentralized money. In just five positions, 100 million bracelets were stolen. So all these steps need to be taken as quickly as possible, and I am addressing all of my own today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u3	Mrs. Olu, 30 seconds. But please enter them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u4	I request Wednesday morning to fill this hall with my own voices and to uphold the laws that will allow Ukrainian health care to become more European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u5	Thank you very much. From the Opposition Block is Yuri Boyko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u6	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Each week there are loud statements of a catastrophic situation in Ukraine. At the same time, apart from the vote, Parliament is not making any concrete decisions to improve the situation. This week is no exception: the order of the day is completely severed from real life in the country. The situation in society is complex and recent developments around the publications of declarations have only exacerbated it to the limit in combination with attempts to increase the wages of the people’s deputies. In society, protest sentiments are growing because of the mass poverty that has swept the whole country. Specific actions are needed, and a new budget must be a key tool in the fight against poverty. Our faction has offered specific sources of additional income to the budget, steps to raise pensions and salaries. It wasn't accepted. Yet, in time, promises were made to raise the minimum wage to 3,000, 200 dollars, leaving entrepreneurs behind. That's where the same people work. In adopting the decision to raise minimum wages, the Law on the Further Reduction of Tax Charges on Wages must be adopted in order to avoid the destruction of small and medium -sized businesses. The Opposition Block insists on accepting our proposals to the Budget Committee for increasing social benefits, reducing expenditure, taxes, and reducing government spending. We believe that the decline in crime depends directly on the growing well-being of Ukrainians, not on the increase in the force budget. The government needs to focus on the heating season, which is now a problem with energy. Finally, we need to listen to society and adopt economically sound tariffs. And the last. We are surprised by the fact that Parliamentarians are criticizing the meeting in Norman format. We believe that this format is only possible for the restoration of peace in Ukraine. Parliament should not criticize but provide a legislative corridor to address all crises in order not to turn the situation in the eastern part of the country into a frozen conflict for decades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u7	From the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, the word is given to Oleg Valeriyovich Láška. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I understand that you're all interested in discussing electronic declarations. Perhaps you share the impressions of each other. But I'd like a moment of your attention! Listen, deaf people! I would like to remind you of the words of French Queen Marie-Antoinetta. When they came to her and said that the Parisians had no bread and they had nothing to eat, she told them to eat cakes instead of bread. Six months after the queen recommended to the hungry Parisians that she eat cake instead of bread, she was decapitated in one of the areas of Paris. That's if. Rosenblatt! You hear the story of the French queen who recommended people to eat the cake, they took her head off. If you don't hear what I'm about to tell you, you'll get your head cut off, too. So shut up and listen! Dear colleagues who have demonstrated the declarations? The Declarations demonstrated the absolute spread of society, the absolute disengagement of the political class from the council. For your own self-preservation, in order to save the country, you need to understand that declarations are the beginning of a self-cleaning process for society, and you need not stop at that, you need to continue this process of cleansing, the first conclusion. The second conclusion is that we radically need to raise citizens' incomes to eat both bread and cake, because if they are hungry, they will bring everyone out to the villas and, at best, to the villas. That's why we're asking the Head of Parliament this week to immediately ask about the increase of pensions, the corresponding bill we have registered, the price of gas, is our bill, the bills that will allow us to lower tariffs, the bill that our pensioners can't buy medicine for free of charge every month. We support the government's initiative to double the minimum wage. But that's not enough, along with the salary, you have to raise pensions, you have to raise citizens' income. And the main thing is to employ Ukrainians to get people to work and pay, then they don't care about your declarations. And when they can't vote on their children today, when they don't have a job, they finish us all here together, and Ukraine ends!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Yegor Sobolev. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u10	I think that Oleg Lazko, who declared a million dollars in cash, is a fine example of the time that has come for the people here to talk about how they fight for the interests of the poor, to explain how they have become so rich. I had a conversation with the leader of the Presidential faction, Igor Greeniv. He says he's willing to come to the Anti-Corruption Committee and explain with papers how he got his fortunes. Self-help calls on all without excluding politicians, and not only in the Supreme Council, to initiate the verification of the legality of their property. Julia Volodymyrna, a huge request: Ask the Agency for Prevention of Corruption to initiate monitoring of your life. Give an example to all. Yuri Lucenko, you're not here, but there's your wife in the hall. Extensive request: Ask the Anticorruption Bureau to check if there is any evidence of illicit wealth in your actions. To those who scream in this room about Self-Help, I promise everyone, and personally, Sergey Soboljev, that Self-Help will begin. All the laws adopted in this room will be fulfilled by our faction from the first and the last day. Mr. Speaker, I have a huge request for you. I think now you understand how important it is to start a clean-up of politics. We've passed a lot of anti-corruption laws on judges, on prosecutors, on ministers. But the most important thing is to clean up politics from those who've been and won millions of dollars all the time. So the law on the right of the Anti-Corruption Bureau to have a wire, the law on the Anti-Corruption Court, the law on the move to open party lists, the law on the prohibition of political advertising. We must cleanse this state of people. Those who are unable to explain their property but want to control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u11	Thank you, dear colleagues. The names of several national deputies were spoken. There's an offer -- I've written down the entire list -- to get everyone out of factions, and then we'll put the word on the line. Please, from the Rebirth Party, Mr. Kulinic. We wrote down that at the end of the speeches there would be a right to a replica, and there were a number of names for the national MPs. Please, Mr. Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Last week, a European Parliament mission was held in France with the leadership of the Supreme Council and with the majority of the MPs and groups. It was about reforming the Ukrainian Parliament. Very important issues have been raised, such as cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council and the relationship between the majority and the opposition. The "Rebirth" MP agrees with your position, Mr. Speaker, that coalition and opposition should unite the principles of things, such as the development and protection of the Ukrainian state. I want to point out that Rebirth supports all the bills aimed at improving the defence, national security and European integration. But at the beginning of this cadence, our parliamentary group was left without any leadership on the Committees of the Supreme Council, although most of the reform laws that became laws were designed at our initiative. During the Euro-Parliament mission, our faction testified to the willingness to work on a basic document that would enable Parliament to improve its work would ensure the rights of the parliamentary opposition. But we would like to see from the leadership of the Supreme Council and from the coalition the real steps to the meeting: to the fair distribution of committees. And if the budget committee were headed by a representative of the opposition, there probably wouldn't be an unpleasant situation that resulted in a wage increase for the people's deputies. We are convinced that there should be an increase in social standards, an increase in minimum wage, a pension, a subsistence minimum, and only then can we talk about the people's deputies, their wages. A few questions about the budget. Local budgets need to be addressed because they are translated into the maintenance of public education institutions, health care facilities, part of the salaries of staff and technical staff. And it's very important that the utility subsidies go directly, not through district councils. We met with the mayors of the cities, and they support us in this. About the agrarians. It is imperative that a special tax regime that was in force until January 1, 2016 is left, but by clear and clear rules, to whom this support will be given. And another very important thesis. If we're really interested in filling local budgets, if we're strong and self-sufficient communities, we have to give them back the land, the right to manage the land outside of the populated areas that they have, I want to point out, were taken 14 years ago, and finally to establish justice in this matter. Therefore, Bill 4355, which solves this problem, needs to be voted on immediately. That's why our Rebirth Group is looking forward to the support, the honourable colleagues, of our initiatives in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from "The Will of the People," Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, and then we have the faction, Sergey Sobolev is speaking from "The Fatherland" and "The People's Front." And then the lines, I get it, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u14	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, national wisdom says, "You should fear not those who cast spears, but those who throw pillows." Now, I'm looking at this hate lesson that happens in the Supreme Council on Tuesday, so I think it's a big score, it's respectable colleagues, we're throwing pillows at each other, and we're hating people, and it's making the power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine miserable, because there's a huge reason for that, as the Parliamentary classic said, "They all think of us as cattle." And that, I think, is the very right definition, especially, that life on the spot is dying, and only with the eyes of the new nomenclature, you can see the shocking, impressive results of the reforms. I will focus on just one subject — health care. I think whoever's in the district will agree with me that people are destined to die. I had a conversation with the directors of academic medical institutions: there's nothing, there's nothing basic, except the hands, the mind, and the heart of the medics. There's been a massive closure of the infirmary and the FAP, and we're dealing with each other in the Supreme Council. We're fighting to accuse each other of stealing more. But everyone here, I think, isn't clean, and the first thing they do is yell at those who take turns where they can take it. Consider: In one of the districts in the district, 15 FAPs were tried to be closed at once. I'm asking, and you count how many retirees there are, you know, how many children? No, there's been an optimisation. Address to the Ministry of Health. Here was the thesis of one of our colleagues that we should bring health care closer to European standards. If European standards are to take living people to the cemetery, I don't understand what other standards might be. What answers do I receive from the minister of health? Think, I quote, "The new modern health model will provide clear, clear guarantees to the state regarding medical care, better financial protection for citizens, efficient and fair distribution of resources, reduced informal payments of patients." Here's the whole answer. We need to stop this "scratching" in the Supreme Council, stop drooling about topics that don't interest people. And listen to the minister, and take into account in the adoption of the budget, so that Ukraine doesn't die, so that we don't demonstrate the established practice of trashing people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Fatherland faction, a performance by the leader of the Yulia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u16	Dear friends, I would now like to address everyone who hears us, and return to that tragic day in Parliament when a decree was passed on the adoption of a draft budget for the government of Groisman for 2017. I want to tell you that, in principle, the budget that Mr. Groissman made, it's deeply corrupt, it's deep lobbyist, and it's a continuation, in fact, of that strategy for the destruction of Ukraine that was initiated by the Yatsenuk government. But what's really loud about it is that the MPs, the coalition, as well as the splinters of the Party of the Regions, voted on a substantial salary raise. If you remember, I was standing in front of you during the vote, talking about a salary increase of 2 - 2.5 times, and I asked you not to vote, but to vote. The Fatherland faction voted against it. And we now demand that the first issue in the Supreme Council be cancelled and that part of the resolution on the adoption of the 17th-year budget for consideration relating to the increase in the salaries of deputies. But that is not all. I have a document in my hands that I'm sure the country doesn't know about, and I don't know the MP Corps, which is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that was adopted in a completely hidden mode since July 27th. By this decree, Mr. Groissman, who was criticizing, right, the Parliament for raising his salary, this decree, secretly, has raised the President's substantial salary, for himself personally – Mr. Groissman, for all ministers, to levels of inadmissibility: they will receive today, with all the allowances and prices of up to 100,000 dollars a month. And what's more, by this decision, he was obliged to pay this salary by the back of May 1st, and in 2-3 months, they accounted for their salary by one minute in the back. This is a criminal matter. The Fatherland Party insists that today, in a decision that will invalidate the position that relates to the salaries of the deputies in order to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel this decree, which is secretive, Groysman and his team raised their salaries by almost two-and-a-half times. And so they can get the money back to the state. Besides, I also want to tell you that it's time to see that Potter's hundreds of thousands of dollars a month gets, corrupt NAC leaders Naftogazu and Gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u17	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u18	The corrupt NAC leaders Naftogazu and Crushing will receive a million dollars a month's wages. If Parliament does not stop this Sabbath, it will mean that we are partners. In addition, I have in my hands the ultimatum of fraudulent investors requiring the immediate resignation of the Hontareva, the immediate resignation of the head of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the immediate consideration of bills to return hundreds of billions of dollars of money stolen from them. Start living for the people! At the same time, the president declared 50 million dollars of money at the drop in the course. Please tell me, how can such a state live? Either parliament begins to live for the people, or this country doesn't need this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u19	Please, from the People's Front faction, the leader of the Maxim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, welcome to this room. On October 14, 14th, Prime Minister Yatzenuk presented a bill on the introduction of an electronic declaration and the establishment of an anti-corruption body (NASK). It's been two years. Congratulations to all colleagues who have made the declaration. Despite all the warnings, despite all the calls that someone is breaking down, this process is no longer stopped. And I think since January 1st, there's going to be a second phase of declarations. And I'm sure society should know. All of it. Now let us go back to solving problems and making important decisions for the country. And I think that the newly created anti-corruption bodies that have been so generously funded from the state budget are NAMK, NABU, who receive very high wages, should now show their effectiveness and verify all the data in these declarations. And I would like to point out once again that this is our final commitment to the domestic task of implementing the visa-free regime for our citizens. Now I call on our colleagues from Europe to finally make a decision to allow our citizens to travel freely in the territory of the European Union. Next. The People's Front fully supports the decision to cancel the items that predicted a pay raise for the people's deputies. This mistake needs to be corrected. But at the same time, the country needs to know those heroes that made that decision almost stealthily. And we invite the Head of Parliament to give a voice to the whole of Ukraine to the names of the initiators who pushed this decision underground. Because it's pretty interesting how they cry every day from the rostrum about the fate of the people, but they don't even vote for it. How they initiate the uplift and at the same time disappear from the session hall. As they were now, speaking earlier, they were saying that the amendment should be removed and, instead, they did not even sign a decision to withdraw an increase in the MP's salary. Next. The leader of our faction. The leader of the People's Front Arseny Yatzenuk has just returned from the United States. There was a meeting with Vice President Joe Biden, where it was emphasized that Ukraine was, was and will be a strategic partner of America, that it will support us, that the main issue now is security, that it will stop the fire, bring the troops of the aggressor out of Ukraine and restore Ukraine's control abroad. Instead, since 2019, the Ukrainian budget may have lost about $2 billion in gas transit. This may result in the European Commission's decision to expand Gazprom's access to the OPAL gas station. This decision is contrary to the spirit of the Third Energy Package and threatens the interests of key gas transitors in the EU, including Ukraine. This is also contrary to the covenant. the principles of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The People's Front supports the appeal of the Supreme Council to prevent the construction of gastropods in Ukraine. You don't have to play with Russia, you have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u21	One minute, please. Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u22	It's not like we need to continue sanctions, we need to expand sanctions against the aggressor country. The lessons of history should teach us. And the next. I'd like to say that this week we need to finally adopt the Law on the Special Seizures of Money Stolen by the Yanukovic regime. And this vote will show in the session room who are the lobby of friends of Yanukovich, who want to pay him back the looted funds, and who is really the patriot who wants to put that money back in the budget and send it to increase security and national security. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, during the presentation of the Self-Help faction, the following names of the national MPs were spoken: Igora Griniva, Mrs. Lucenko, Mrs. Timoshenko, Sergia Soboljeva and Oleg Láška. Now I'll give you my word to the factions whose names have been called. Please, Igor Green, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u24	I would like, especially young deputies, to say a few things simply: Ukraine didn't start in 2014, Ukraine has existed for more than 25 years -- that is to be remembered. I was lucky enough to be one of those who voted for Ukraine’s independence and who voted for it many years before. I am proud, as I am proud of all my life, of the 15 years I spent in Parliament and the 10 years I spent outside Parliament. And I don't agree with those deputies who say we're all a little dishonest here. I have nothing to be ashamed of, I have nothing to be ashamed of, and that is why I told Jehor Sobolev today, after his disgraceful remarks yesterday, that I was ready to come to them on a committee and to him as well. I'm assuming they can't. Not everything knows or understands everything, and it's not their job and it's not their function. But I'm ready to come and explain everything peacefully, because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u25	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u26	Because we voted in favour of introducing these declarations, even though we were accused of not being, this is the right process, this is the path to transparency and openness, but we don't have to compromise it with general populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Irina Lucenko to the rostrum. And I'm being told by the people's deputy Rosenblatt that his last name also sounded, and I'm going to give him a minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Two days ago, we had an open electronic declaration and Ukraine. In fact, we met the 144th most recent requirement set by the European Union, the European Community for a visa-free regime -- this is an electronic declaration that showed all the wealth our colleagues in this Supreme Council and other government representatives, local self-government, government administrations and so on and so on. It would not have been possible without the President's firm will to make this electronic declaration look exactly the way it looks. I cannot help but notice the very serious and positive role of society, the progressive role that has moved us, the national MPs, and other representatives of the authorities to show this to society today. But as I analyze the declarations, I cannot help but urge both the community and the colleagues in the hall to remember that there are exes in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u29	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u30	There are also former businessmen in this room, and officials who have never been in business and were unable to earn these assets. I would like to remind our progressive representatives of Parliament that this is the purpose of the NAMC and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u31	15 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u32	which should be dealt with in the analysis of these particular electronic declarations. Our faction today -- the second thesis -- voted to change the decision that was voted on when we adopted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u33	Mrs. Irina, thank you. Please, Mr. Rosenblatt is invited to the rostrum and then – Sergey Sobolev, he takes two minutes, mentioned his name and Mrs. Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Yes, society today divides into a time when there was no e-declaration, and there's an e-declaration today. I know the history of France very well, Oleg Valeriyovich, I remember Louis XVl, I remember Mary-Antoinette, I remember her saying that when there is no bread, let the cakes eat. I remember what her head was cut off for. But I just want to remind you of something else, all of us, you know, the electronic declaration didn't divide Parliament into rich, rich and poor, but it divided it into honest MPs and dishonests. I want to tell you, honest MPs, they can come out here to the rostrum, they can go to any television, look into the eyes of their major district, and say, yes, these are my assets, I've earned them, and I have a declaration for every dollar or bracelet I've earned. And the dishonest one will tear up his shirt, talk about the bad life of the people, walk around the world, tell you how hard it is to live, drive on luxury cars, live in palaces, castles, and then tell you how hard it is to live in this nation. So I just want to call all the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u35	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u36	Be honest with yourself, be honest with society and, believe me, people know their heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! I think the key problem with our Parliament is the absence of those who, according to the powers given to it by Parliament, do not analyse all legislative acts on corruption. Please tell me if there could be a draft decision in a civilized parliament on how the draft corruption budget is approved, along with the corruption components of raising salaries for the people’s own deputies themselves, without the conclusion of the profile committee that is required to do so. And the answer is very simple, because when you're a representative of a person called "Fate" in Lviv, not the mayor, everything becomes in place. Because at the time that the Janukovich regime was one after the other in the country, when people went out on "anti-corruption venues" when people went out on the field, protesting against the rise of the pension age by the Party of Regions and Janukovič, at a time when people protested the destruction and cleansing of entrepreneurs on so-called "business venues", the leader of the Sadowa Party on the knees of the Lizes and supplicated Janukovič to accept it on his birthday. I don't think the country sees any more shame. At a time when millions of people went out on the "speaking grounds" of Gardens and the team took the colloquial and the Yanks favorably, switching to Russian. I don't think there's gonna be any more disgrace for the country. And now these people will teach us how to live. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the key problem of this country is that some people want to be with everyone: both Kravchukov and Kuchma, and Yanukovich, and Yushchenkov and Prašenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u39	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u40	I'm done. It won't work! Still, you will have to be responsible for everything you have done in this life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Baby, two minutes. Please don't mention anyone's name, Your Honor, because we already have to vote by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u42	Dear fellow MPs! Honesty and responsibility are what people, Ukrainian citizens want from power. They want to, but unfortunately they can't. To be honest, before the Dignity Revolution, we had a completely different country. Since the 1990s, instead of reforming, building a country, they've built an oligarchy system where everyone has survived as they can. I'd like each of you to tell yourself honestly, including those who tell you what they're fighting corruption, whether you've been getting paid in envelopes all these years or whether you've been paying taxes and everything. That'll be fair! So let's be honest with the people. The Revolution of Dignity risked an oligarchic system, under dishonesty, under injustice. Those who do not understand do not have a future. Our advantage, our team, is as the leader of the Radical faction, is that we are honest. Honesty is a product that never fails. You can be a Pharisee, you can pretend to be poor and miserable, and you can enjoy it, and you can tell people in declarations that there's nothing to be told, like those who fight corruption. And you can be honest and demand it from others, I urge you to stop using the real need to fight corruption, the real need to clean up the country, to use political accounts. We can't overcome corruption if we hang labels on each other, we can't change the country when someone says it's more honest than the other. A society more honest than all of us have been taken together, and we must understand and meet the requirements of this society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is up, and I'll take the line with you. I very much ask my distinguished colleagues in the audience. I want to support the speaker here, Vladimir Litvin. I think we should stop these five moments of hate that is happening in us. [[Applause]] Stop self-disclosure of the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to remind you, society, this is the Parliament that has adopted all anti-corruption laws. This is the Parliament that created the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. This is the Parliament that created the Anti-Corruption Bureau. This is the same Parliament that passed the Law on Electronic Declarations and wouldn't have passed that law without the "Peter Prashenko Block," it would never have passed. He wouldn't go through without the People's Front, without the Self-Help, without the Fatherland, without the Radical Party, a colleague. We got ahead of ourselves in a few order of the previous system. Can anyone imagine a similar law and a similar process in the Russian Duma if they submitted electronic declarations? Can anyone imagine such a thing in our previous system of authority? No one can imagine, colleagues. We took a very big step of self - cleansing. But that should be our moral strength, not the basis for self - humiliation here in the hall. And that's what we all need to understand. We have colleagues, excuse me, three more years to work here in this room. We have no other responsibility, we have a great responsibility, in the parliament of a warring country, on each of us: both the heads of factions, and the MPs. Let's stop the self-destruction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because at all times, at all times, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was, in fact, the course that gave rise to the gravity of the Ukrainian state and in 1991, when the Ukrainian state was declared, and in 2004 after the Orange Revolution, and in 2014 after the Dignity Revolution. Let's stop populism, let's get back to our shoulders, let's change the country together and win the enemy together. He's the only one in the Kremlin. And let's match the height of the assigned tasks that lie ahead of us, colleagues. I urge you to do so. Back me up! [[Applause]] Colleagues, we now have to approve the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And after that, I'm going to put in a draft order to delete paragraph 3 and paragraph 4. There was a requirement to put it right away, but we have to first establish the agenda, and it will be right, and then put it to the vote. Colleagues, we'll talk later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now we have 5060. The discussion is about to begin, and then you'll take the word in it. I'm just explaining the logic of our actions. Colleagues, I would like to highlight the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made at the suggestion of all committees, all factions, and those that sounded on the Conciliation Council. He must unite the entire room. And I hope that we can be united today. He does not provide for a special discussion procedure. There's no need to spend two on it, two on it, two on it. I'll just let all the factions' heads speak out on this. Is this okay with you? So, colleagues, let us go to the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call (5060). And I've already said in my opening statement what it's all about. It's actually all the registered projects and all those that have passed the committee projects, except those that have been rejected by the committee. And I'm asking the factions to gradually express their position on this draft decision. Mr. Yuri, is there a need for a speech? Mr. Igor? It's a special procedure, it doesn't foresee a discussion at all. Is that right? Who will act? Igor Greene, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u44	I already said on the Conciliation Board yesterday that we need to continue to adjust anyway, that's when we're moving everything from the previous session to the next one, and that's how it's seen as a big spam that's disrupting one structure or one. And the priorities of some, the strategy of the work of the Supreme Council to organize. That's why we're going to vote for it, but asking all the committee heads to do the utmost to clear up those bills that have already lost their relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u45	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let's finish this show, make a decision about including all the bills in the agenda of the day session and not taking the order of the day every week for a week. Let's work properly with the committees. Let's give the Supreme Council a chance to work properly, and we'll finally get to law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Opposition Block, one minute. Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u48	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The opposition bloc will vote against the agenda proposed to us, because it does not have the most important issues that the people of Ukraine are interested in, the issues raised by the Opposition Unit. This is a draft of Decree 1299 on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry on 2 May in Odessa (as early as 2.5 years after more than 50 people were burned, no one is investigating, no one understands what happened there); draft Law 2342 on the imposition of a moratorium on raising tariffs; draft Law 2721 on the moratorium on the closure of schools; and laws that have been filed by the Opposition Unit on the implementation of the Minsk Agreements to ensure that we have peace. Once again, Parliament deals with no unnecessary populist issues. This Parliament does not want to work on the issues that people need. We will not vote in favour of this agenda and demand that the following issues be included: tariff cuts, increases in wages and pensions, and finally address those issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u50	Two thirds of the halls are proud of their public service activities during the 20's, 15's, 10's. Only one problem is the state in war and economic crisis. This happened in a day or two? No, it's a product of your pseudo pride. Vote for the agenda and this Parliament should work, because there are half the people in this Parliament who want to destroy it because they want to destroy the Ukrainian statehood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u51	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports the proposed agenda, and we insist that, in the first place, legislation be considered to raise citizens' income. Our bill on providing pensioners with free drugs, our bill on overcoming the President's veto on a law that allows women to retire at 55 years of age, our bill on commissioning the government to recalculate the price of gas, on restoring the social standard of gas consumption, on reducing tariffs, these are all those drafts on Chernobyl that are now at the top of the Council, we demand that the social rights of Chernobylers be restored, in particular, to implement the decisions of the courts on Chernobyl programmes and applications, these are all those bills that we believe should be considered in Parliament in the first place. Parliament must protect the Ukrainians, not rob them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u54	In fact, on the one hand, the adoption of Bill 5060 doesn't matter because we can approve any lists, but during the formation of the agenda for the week, the leadership of the Supreme Council blocks the necessary bills for Ukraine, particularly those initiated by the "Paternity" faction. It's on the one side. Despite all the negotiations at Mona's house and the fact that we're doing some reform of Parliament. But in spite of that, even in this bill, Bill 5142 on Special Seizure was put in place. So they can't push us again, they can't push us through again -- they're stretching on this side, and they're asking us now to put into order a daily bill that the European Commission insists on, the Council of Europe is asking us not to accept. Don't take it! That's the first one. Second of all, me, me. Since the next question will not be discussed, I insist, on behalf of the "Fatherland" faction, that we include the item that we require from the Cabinet of Repeal Ministers of the Order of July 27, 2016, number 493.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u55	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u56	include Order No. 493 of July 27, 2016, which they secretly, secretly concealing from everyone, increased their wages to themselves and to the President of Ukraine several times. A hindsight that is totally unacceptable in a normal civilized society. And then Vladimir Groissman has a conscience to go to this Parliament. on this rostrum and in this Parliament, someone to criticize about something!?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that all the bills are included (now ladies, I will give them) in this project. Yeah, there's a special confiscation, there's everyone who's been filed, there's everybody who's been registered. It's, if I'm not mistaken, one and a half thousand bills that are proposed for the agenda of the session. I want to remind you that the committees form the agenda. And on Thursday there'll be a committee block on law enforcement. We're starting a bill on Thursday. From the Alona Shkrum bill, which I respect very much. And that's why the level of justice, to my deep conviction, is completely sustainable. Colleagues, two more groups will be voting in two minutes. I ask you to enter the Chamber of Deputies and take up your jobs. Mr. Vitaly Hometicnik will be speaking from Rebirth. Please, Mr. Vitaly, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, as soon as we met with our Europarliamentary colleagues and talked about how the reformed parliament of our state should be, how to work transparently, working so that Parliament's work would be effective. But the decision that is being proposed has nothing to do with the things that we have negotiated with all the factions and with the representatives of the European Parliament. That's why we want to be proportional to the order of the day, proportional to all factions and parliamentary groups, and we're moving clearly on those proposals that come from factions and parliamentary groups. Because the committees are obviously working, but they are voting in the final decision of the faction. That's why we haven't seen our questions, the MP's Rebirth Group, and we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, from the will of the people, Jaroslav Moskalenko. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! If you take the whole level of trust in the Ukrainian Parliament, today it's going to be 1 percent of the Ukrainian population. And if we didn't have any relatives, there wouldn't be a percentage of that trust in Parliament. And I'll tell you why. Because at least this week, there were three meetings, and I was at everybody's, like, day-to-day meetings for this week. And there were no questions in the faction. We bring order to the session room for a week, not for a session, and today we talk about not supporting it and not voting. What can we vote for the Ukrainian people in this room if we are even approved by all factions of the day order cannot be voted on? I call you all to work. We are voting for the agenda and we are looking at essentially the bill! Dear colleagues, do not destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u61	Thank you, colleagues. So we exchanged thoughts. The vast majority of factions have supported us to draft Decree 5060 -- I stress -- not weekly, not weekly, but all for the session that I'm about to put to the vote. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, and there's going to be a vote. We'll move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to prepare for the vote. This vote will allow us to unlock the debate on our bill on the committees. Committees cannot deal with issues that are not included in the agenda. And a lot of committees can't do their job professionally. So there is our shared responsibility and it is our joint decision to vote on the agenda for the session. So I see we can vote now, right, colleagues? Please, I am putting to the vote a revised draft Decree (Registration No. 5060) on the order of the day of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all the plugins for adoption as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:06:19]] For 227 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, on making this decision. We've got a day's work. We have a decommissioned agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] What factions? There's a statement from Self-Help about the breakup and the Radical Party. Yeah, well, there's a statement from two factions. Instead of a break. Welcome to Victor Halasyuk's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u62	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, according to our initiative with Oleg Lazko, 174 people's deputies have been the authors of this legislative initiative, a draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine has been introduced to extend the objectives of activity and responsibility of the National Bank of Ukraine. I want to stress that this is a coherent, transparent and well-thought-out strategy aimed at launching a new economic course for the country. With these changes to the Constitution, we have to make the National Bank work for the development of the financial sector that would serve the real economy to support the production and welfare of citizens, and the economy should work for every citizen. I want to point out that these legislative initiatives in no way affect the independence of the National Bank, on the contrary, they expand the entire activities of the National Bank without taking any powers from it. At the same time, this mega-regulator is being geared towards supporting the real economy. In a better world practice, in the experience of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, the Central Banks of the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Australia, other countries, we suggest that among the goals of the National Bank's activities there be, in addition to those provided for today's Constitution, also: the promotion of long-term economics; the provision of a reasonable level of interest rates; and the promotion of maximum employment for the population of the country. This is a strategic initiative that will allow the monetary power, the country and the government to be synchronized, and we need to focus on improving the well-being of Ukrainians, improving the real level of life of Ukrainians, because when we talk about the independence of the National Bank, it has to be independence from political pressure, from illegal influences, but not in any way from the interests of Ukrainian society, not in any way from the interests of industry, entrepreneurs, employers, investors. Monetary authorities have as much government work to create new jobs to make loans available to the industry. Today, the National Bank has a huge arsenal of important economic influences. But is he using them to develop the Ukrainian economy and improve the welfare of citizens? I think that every entrepreneur, every Ukrainian citizen, can honestly answer to himself for his own good, that it's not happening today. Therefore, the Radical Party faction, together with its colleagues, with its co-conspirators, calls for immediate acceptance of these changes to the Constitution, directing the activities of the National Bank towards the development of Ukraine's economy and enhancing the welfare of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the agenda. Among the presentations in "different" were the demands of the factions' heads that we immediately start the day of the draft Amendment Order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Conclusions and Proposals to Ukraine's Draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2017 (number 5323). This provision provides for the repeal of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the previous decree, which regulates the salaries of the national deputies. Signed under the statute: Parish Andrew, Burbak, Greens, Berezuk, Moscalenko, Homutinnik, Pavelko, Boyko — almost all the heads of factions and heads of the budget committee. It's easy for me to say. Colleagues, can we put this to a vote right now to put it into the agenda and see if there's a general agreement, is there a general position on that? My colleagues, so I would like to stress, it's now proposed to cancel paragraphs 3 and 4 on wage regulation. And I propose that we now vote to put this issue first in the agenda of the day session. Any backup, colleagues? Does everyone understand the responsibility of that question? Then please prepare to make your decision, please take your jobs. Please take up your jobs. I am voting on the proposal to now move to the draft Order (5323) on the regulation of the salaries of Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, please vote and please support. Arthur! Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your place and get ready to vote in the agenda for the day session, so that we can now consider 5323 regulation of the salaries of deputies. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote and please support, colleagues. [[11:12:41]] For 263 263 for. And we can move on to making a decision. I want to speak to you, colleagues. We've talked a lot about this question, we've talked to our colleagues in the European Parliament and with the prime ministers and the former heads of parliament. And we came to a common understanding that in all European states, the regulation of wages is generally determined by an independent body that recommends a formula and a system of wages for the entire leadership of the state. I think that's the way we should go: by creating such a commission, preferably from experts and, preferably, from European experts, who will give us the opportunity to engage in our reform with European experience. And this will be the right step and the right path. But now, I'm sure we need to support the proposal so that paragraphs 3 and 4 – regulation of wages – we can adjust. And I have a request-calling to all the national MPs, not to make another five-minute hate speech, not to say another. The issue of blaming one another will not make Parliament stronger and it will not make Ukraine stronger. There's the Pinzenic amendment you've been talking about, and it's going to be announced by the head of the budget committee. I have indeed a general request (signed by all the heads of factions) that we vote, not to humiliate or defile Parliament. We made a mistake -- we need to fix it, it's communication with society, it's a normal dialogue with society, it's a colleague. I'm asking you to support me in this. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Budgets, Pavel Andrija Vasilovich, please. Please, Mr. Pavelko Andri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u64	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues today promptly considered the draft regulation 5323 on amending the Supreme Council Regulation on Conclusions and Proposals for a Bill on the State Budget for 2017, which was adopted on 20 October, introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council, the heads of most of the MPs and myself. This project proposes to exclude paragraphs 3 and 4 of the above-mentioned regulation on financial security for the activities of the national deputies. The issue of pay in the government sector requires a comprehensive settlement for all branches of government. As a result of the budget committee’s consideration, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft regulation 5323 as a whole. At the same time, at a meeting of the committee, National MP Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik made a separate proposal regarding the conditions of payment for the work of high - paying workers, which were sounded after the cancellation of the earnings. to raise the salaries of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee did not support this issue, but such an amendment was, and there was a suggestion to be heard in the Chamber. We now give the floor to the author. I thank you for your attention, please support the committee's decision and for this amendment decide in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, there is the position of the committee and there is one amendment that is proposed. If the committee's proposal doesn't pass, I'm going to make a proposal that Pinzenic insisted on voting on the committee, and she is. If there's no general amendment, then I'll vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for a Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017 (number 5323) for a Committee on the Basis and Overall. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:17:22]] For 264 Decision taken. Colleagues, we closed this page and we made a decision. I'll give you one minute: Victor Pinzenik, one minute and Vlasenko, one minute. Please, Mr. Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't even want to talk about the ruling that applied to us, because I drew attention to this problem when the ruling was voted in this room, because it's an unacceptable thing in a country that. In two years where the economy has fallen by 16 percent and is in a state of war. Thank God this part of the subject is closed. When we heard the government's assessment of this decision, we heard that it was not in time. I fully agree with this position of government. But was it three months ago that the ministers were paid 2.5 times? What has changed over the three months? [[Applause]] So that was the problem I was correcting. And I propose that I address Parliament to the government, recommend that the government cancel the July salary hikes for ministers and other high-level workers. [[Applause]] When difficult in the country, the first authority should set an example of willingness to make sacrifices.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Vlasenko. Julia Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u68	Honorary colleagues, the Party and the faction of the Fatherland will certainly vote in favour of including in this decree the commitment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a requirement for them to cancel the Order of 27 July 2016 No. 493 on canceling the promotion of the President, Mr. Groissman, to all ministers by 2.5 times the salary. But at the same time, they made it a hindrance: they passed a decree of July 27, 100,000 dollars a month, and they put it into effect on May 1. And that's why we're demanding that not only is there a requirement for the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel this decision, but we also demand that we return the money illegally paid back, because it's a lot of booze, it's a violation of the law. And we ask you to put it to a roll call.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Igor Šurma, one minute. Then it's easy, one minute, and we finish the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing my fellow MPs. Dear colleagues, today what is happening should be a lesson for all. All you have to do is vote for what you don't read. It's enough for the government to applaud for the decision they've made and then say they don't know anything. It is enough to manipulate the Rules, since the order was passed at 6:24 a.m., enough to bet 10 times. Today we need to understand that the consolidated position in this room, the opposition block initiative, it's not important, it's not important, it's important that today there's enough intelligence, it's enough intelligence to look at pensioners who have been retired since January 1, 2017, they're going to get it in 2018, about doctors, about teachers. This is a lesson if you continue to hold such a vote, and no one in this room has a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u71	Thank you. The last line is Easy, and we finish the discussion, we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The fact that last week in Parliament, secretly by most people's deputies, voted to raise their salaries several times for MPs is a lesson for each of us, you can't cheat people and cheat Ukrainian deputies, because most people don't know what they're voting for. We believe that today's pay is primarily for doctors, teachers, miners, pensioners to raise their salaries. There are no needy people here either in government or among MPs. Boys, girls, moratoriums on any salary raises, income raises. First, draw people to you, and then let them pick you up. And when people are raised and people are not raised, it is wrong. Therefore, the Radical Party supports the initiative of cancelling the government’s decision to raise the salaries of government officials and not just government officials, prosecutors, judges, and all officials, and Nitzbank.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we have taken an important, responsible step and there is the moral strength of Parliament. I am convinced that when there is a misunderstanding to gather together, I will arrange them together. Some say that power should be shown, and I am convinced that authority should show a permanent dialogue with society. The authorities have to admit mistakes too. That's why I welcome you to Rule 5323. And we're finally moving on to the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is a very different matter. It's a decision. The decision was purely a change to the previous ruling. Register, pass, and we will keep it in the order prescribed by law. Let's move on to the agenda. And the first is the question of construction and housing (first reading). Draft Law 4581. This is a bill amending article 19 of the Law on Heat Supply on Long-term Contracts for the Supply of Heat. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to review this draft law with a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please. [[11:23:47]] For a hundred and 150 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. Please, Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this week, we have several drafts, very important, not only on alternative energy, not only on the possibility of implementing energy service contracts, but also on the energy efficiency of buildings and residential services. These are really the basic bills that allow us to talk about energy dependency by introducing energy efficiency. For your consideration, a bill is now being proposed, which is very short, but which is very important. Why, because today, when investment costs are invested in energy efficiency in exchange for equipment, it is only a year to make such a contract. The total number of such projects is about five years. And so the brief changes to legislation that allow for the implementation of these energy service contracts over the course of 10 years will allow for the speeding up of not only alternative energy, but also energy efficiency. I want to say that it's very important to us, apart from these bills that we're going to be looking at in terms of heat pumps for cogeneration plants, we're going to be very important to build a base. The commercial accounting base, the setting up of counters that apply to house auditing, so that people can clearly take responsibility from those who conduct audits or implement energy services. So I would like your attention and support, not just for this bill, but for the bill box that will be considered here today in the hall, and for Thursday, because a very important day is about energy efficiency, the restructuring of the debt of thermal enterprises, and the Housing and Utilities Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u75	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Podlisecki Lev Theofilovich. Please, Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Fuel Energy has considered the bill and has proposed that it be accepted as a basis. At the same time he is, really, as Mr. Zubko said, he is so brief that I would like to just read it completely. "According to the thermal energy budget facility, which is produced by heat-generating plants using alternative sources of energy and alternative fuels, is carried out by a thermal organization based on a contract that is not less than five years old." So the purpose of the bill is completely understood. For investors who invest in new types of heating to be able to work longer, this stimulates them. I don't see any warnings about acceptance, actually, and that norm, but I'm going to notice that the norm in the contract for any activity is just one of many norms. There's both the value and the calculation system and everything else. So I think that this bill should be part of other bills where the principles of work are more widely defined, particularly literally a few weeks ago, on September 22, if I'm right, we passed a bill where we also introduced changes in the heat supply law, and there are actually principles for determining the price and cost of services. So I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to, in fact, cooperate more with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the Professional Committees so that we can submit balanced, balanced big laws, conceptual laws, not just so casually. And at the same time, we're creating these little laws that we're always talking about. Today, more than 3,000 drafts are in the Supreme Council, we just don't get to all of them. So I suggest you support in the first reading, but keep doing it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u77	Should I let you finish? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Alona Babak. Aloni Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is extremely strange, and it is strange that, among all the terms of the contract for the supply of heat for budgetary organizations, we set a deadline, while the most problematic issue in the conclusion of the budget contracts with the suppliers of heat is the price of such a contract. And if we're talking about a five-year term, then the question to everyone is, how will the price of such a contract be determined? Because the price is regulated and regulated by the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities. And it turns out that here and there the hostage becomes the budget of such a contract within the term and at the price set by the public authority. Respectable, unadvisable laws that only partially resolve the issue of return on investment. Because everything they said had to guarantee the return on investment, but the question of return is not just the term, but also the price. Therefore, if we are to vote on such a law today, it is only on a basis, and it is imperative that we prescribe what will happen to the price of such a contract for a period of five years before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Once again, I just want to sharpen the energy efficiency issue for our country. Today's loving law that we're considering is designed to make people pay less so that investors who invest in our energy efficiency have a return. And for that, there are these bills. This is one of those bills that just needs to be adopted and amended in the first reading. So I ask everyone to support and fight for our energy efficiency and our energy dependency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Germany is handing over to the Queen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I'd say, "We have a plan to lower the tariffs. And we propose to discuss this in this room, to make a responsible decision today." What are we talking about today? How to impose a firm right on all budgetary institutions, how to protect the businesses of officials who will force schools, hospitals, kindergartens to take their energy systems. To do so, they will receive concessional loans, and then for five years they will make all the money go up to the cost of their business. Look, maybe it's time to stop and realize that we can't do this anymore by robbing and humiliating people. Such a bill, not that it is harmful, but today it violates all rights under the laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, competition, consumer rights, and nonsensus in general. Why do we have one? Here we are thinking about how to protect an investor, and an investor who invests money in job creation, an investor who keeps his businesses today, there is now a boom in raiding and bullying, and here we suddenly discover that there is a business to protect. Let's stop lying to each other and make responsible decisions, first lower tariffs, and then the protection of someone's business can only be considered in Parliament. Therefore, the Opposition Unit will not vote categorically for this decision. And we insist that this room address today's issue of setting tariffs for people and lowering tariffs for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u84	Alona Ivanovna's starch. He's handing over Fish, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u85	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction always systematically supports the transition to alternative sources of energy and the strengthening of our energy dependency. However, it is very difficult to support short-term government bills that simply refer to an inappropriate article of the law, which defines the basic principle of their distribution in the field of heat supply, that is, short-term bills, non-systemic, resolve strictly lobbying moments, and there are selective approaches to long-term contracts and applied only to budgetary institutions. And we understand that this bill will not solve the main problem that people just don't get online, there are gas monopolies that won't allow alternative energy sources that are more progressive. We have a warning when there was a discussion on the Fatherland faction, the issue of ecology is not solved, because they can just cut down our forests in order to make these pellets, and that's not allowed, we also have to regulate it, they have to be system-wide bills. There is also a warning that local queens, local governors, or others there, who will maintain their own business, will force people to move on to this, and that will not be free competition. That's what it has to be. Bills have to be systematic. Support for renewables should be a state, because they're still at the level of technology, so that they can develop on their own. But such dotted bills, such lascivious bills, they're inconvenient. And today there's going to be a few more of these bills, and the same comments are going to be the same: we need to work systematically, we need to work professionally, we need to develop not only a generation on pellets, on biofuels, but also solar and wind and geothermal energy. We're doing something like just replacing gas with boilers -- this is what MinHKG and DergenergoEfficiencies do. More systematic work is needed to create green jobs, not just business for officials, to reduce energy consumption, to move to renewables, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to show that we are the country that will give. This is why the Fatherland faction will always support and always vote. These bills are inconvenient. And to Mr. Speaker, please return to the budget committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, so we've finished the discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. Now I'm asking all my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. And there were questions for the vice-premier. Please turn the microphone on to the vice-premier. At the same time, I would like to ask people to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, well, I think we just heard a few thoughts. But what I'd like to say is that this particular bill, as well as the bill that deals with alternative sources of energy, heat pumps, just says that we're protecting an investor, we're just saying that we're creating jobs and that's what makes it possible to invest, to pay back. But this allows us to introduce alternative sources of energy. And when I hear from the MPs that it's very unsystematic work, you just look at the package of bills that's being considered this week. And I think it's possible to criticize, but by criticizing it, we have to propose. I have not yet seen from Mr. Rybkin any drafts that would allow this process to be accelerated.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u88	It was called a last name, so I'm going to give it one minute. Please, Mr. Rybchin. Turn on the microphone. And now there's going to be a decision. Please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Zubko! Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I'm or I'm the biggest greenest MP who supports a lot of drafts. The first reading had already voted on the ESCO bill, because the government had not been able to submit the right bills and to resolve the situation, we were still working with Dergenerge efficiencies, and with enterprises, and with investors, and this bill would be for the second reading. According to my co-authorship, the green tariffs were reduced in the Kluva Sun. And today the Chinese come to lobby for them. Come back, so-called Chinese, because it's been sneezing behind them. So me and the Fuel Energy Committee are working very systematically, and it's become very important for us to make our country energy efficient, energy independent. And the question of government salaries when Mr. Groissman comes out and says that MPs should not increase their salaries, but increase their salaries by a decree that takes effect from the day of publication and applies May 1st should be decided to have everyone in equal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u90	Thank you. So let's move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, please, most of the factions supported the bill, but there were those who voted. They said they would vote against it. So, I understand that every voice will be important. Can we vote? I'll put it to a vote. On the ground! Yes, colleagues. Just on the ground. I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Law on Heat Supply on Long-term Contracts for the Supply of Heat Energy (Number 4581) on a basis, colleagues. Based on the base. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:39:18]] For a hundred and 190 for, 2. By factions, please turn on. Colleagues, the next suggestion we might have is to return it to the committee for further work. Yes, colleagues, shall we support this proposal? Will we be able to speak in it? Colleagues, I'm about to make an offer to return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Everyone, please concentrate so we don't lose the bill. Anyone who supports the return to the committee for the re-reading, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, to return to the committee so as not to lose. [[11:40:27]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am so counting that both the committee heads and ministers are working on proposing those bills that have support in the hall. In doing so, I stress and stress that the previous work is done, that our vote is only the top of all the legislative work that is being done. It is desirable that all the discussions take place before that. I'm counting on the committees to continue, when they're offering their block, they're going to be preparing bills so that we can accept them, not return them to the committee. So the next thing we have is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. But before that, colleagues, I want to give you one message that the Prime Minister has addressed to me. So for 10 days, I did not sign a budget decision in the first reading because there were points to raise wages. I only signed it after I got the signatures of all the faction heads on the change where my signature was the first number. But now the government is saying that for the 10 days that we've been delayed, we've delayed the deadline for the budget, because those 10 days they couldn't work. Is there agreement of the Hall to say that the Supreme Council supports it? So it goes on for 10 days that we didn't sign. It's not the vote, it's the message that was made out of my fault. Dear colleagues! We're going to draft the Law on Amendments to the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water (for the Improvement of Certain Provisions) (number 4582). And I ask you to support the motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:42:34]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development Zubko Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Just by amending this draft law on drinking water and drinking water, we empower local self-government to approve the right to drink sewage, to establish the accounting of these liquid waters, and to establish the responsibility for environmental pollution, if users are the ones who are the ones who are running out of water. It is also the bill that regulates the identification of drinking water, drinking water, and centralized drainage subjects, as well as the requirements for local water intake. This will enable, first of all, environmental issues, allowing us to talk about what such accounting is, which will allow us to invest in sewage, water treatment, and drinking water. I propose this bill, which is supported by the committee, to adopt in the first reading and thus not only increase the exploitation, efficiency of these buildings, the reduction of tariffs due to the efficiency of the operation of these buildings, but also to increase the responsibility for the exploitation and pollution of the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u92	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Baltic Committee, Evgen Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u93	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in a bill to amend the Law on Drinking Water and Water (regarding the improvement of certain provisions), proposes to clarify certain provisions concerning water drainage, which are currently regulated only by regulations. In particular, the project provides for the improvement of legal relations in the areas of production, transport and supply of drinking water, drainage, transportation, wastewater treatment and the determination of the level of pay for their treatment. Local government authorities are given authority to approve local wastewater intake regulations and to determine how much they pay for their treatment. These rules also set charges for the supernormal discharge of industrial and other wastewater in the water supply system. The adoption of this law will undoubtedly help to improve the management of water and water facilities, which will ultimately lead to more economical water consumption and thus reduce waste water discharge. According to the explanatory note to the bill, its implementation does not require additional material or other costs. However, respectable colleagues and Government members should be noted for the fact that the catastrophic state of water and sanitation systems in the State today exists. Without funding, the problem will only get worse every year. I would like to emphasize that the State-wide drinking water target programme for 2011-2020 was not funded in 2013. This has led to the destruction of the country's water and sewerage economy and the deterioration of the quality of drinking water. The Committee requests the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide in the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2017 for the implementation of the activities. The Committee on Ecology proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill amending Ukraine to drink.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u95	The Committee on Environmental Affairs invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill amending the Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act as a basis for further elaboration in the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u96	Thank you. They are invited to the report. I'm asking you to do a two-for-two, two-again. Please. Svetlana Zalitschuk gives the speech to Rybak. Turn on the Ribaku microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u97	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, you know, there's an article in the Drinking Water Act 7 that says about guarantees of consumer rights in drinking water and drinking water. This article guarantees the protection of consumers’ rights in the field of drinking water and drinking water. But in fact, over the last few years, no copies of the U.K. Drinking Water program have been released from the government budget. We have a lot from east to west, from north to south of the populace suffers from a lack of clean and quality drinking water, and sometimes even lack of it as such. That's why, dear colleagues, we have our Environmental Committee's right: to the 2017 budget, we request that at least 200 million dollars be allocated to the Ukraine's Drinking Water programme. And I think that this bill is going to be voted on in the first reading, we're going to work on the committee site, but we still have to make some changes to the budget, and we're going to put this money into clean drinking water for the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Sazko gives the King's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we have ongoing experiments from the Government today. Well, here's a proposal for a rain tax. We're taxing the meadows with this bill, we might say, we're putting it in. And we must all understand in this room that such a proposal by the Government will lead to an increase in the value of centralized water resources for people. So if you think that people today don't pay enough for tariffs, if you think that we have a water issue in the country, that it's a clean, timely, quality one, then of course it's the same time to accept today, to count all the meadows in the country and to put the value of all these meadows in the country on people. Therefore, the Opposition Unit requires the Government to tell the people, explain to the MPs what their tariff reduction programme is, and the time will stop. Such a decision leads to an even greater increase in the number of people. The cost of housing and utility services. Therefore, we insist: without a reduction in tariffs, without a programme today, as the price of gas will be revised, the price of services, the consideration of any solutions, perhaps in the right way, but which lead to an increase in the value of services for people, is unacceptable. The opposition bloc will not vote categorically in favour of such a decision. And I suggest that Parliament do not consider the Government's bills until they accept the refusal to increase their wages. Because we're sitting here, we're voting on their non-professional decisions, and they're paying themselves for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u100	From Fatherland, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u101	I ask you to pass the word Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u102	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I'm also now going to the Deputy Prime Minister. Because, Mr. Zubko, you have become a witness today as you fool the people of Ukraine. Please show me your wages, how much you get in hand, how many salaries you have, which are multiplying by three, and your 20% pay fund is multiplying by four: 60-80,000 dollars you get, instead of criticizing the national MPs who are talking about the right things. Now for the bill. I'm going to say immediately that the "Paternity" faction will support this bill in the first reading and ask for the second reading to prepare changes not only in the title but also in the preamble to the text. The purpose of the bill is to improve legislation in the field of water supply and water supply. In those cities where there are two different companies that perform water services, while others, in the water supply, obviously have to do one business, optimize expenses on all these things. This is the kind of enterprise that comes along. The concept of a central water supply enterprise. In the spring, when the rains, rains, rains, occur in the liquefied sewers of the same volume of water, which, in turn, results in pump loads, the use of electricity, since this water is very much from the flood. It is possible for local self - government authorities to provide for rules for the adoption of these sewage, as well as rules for the setting of tariffs that will then be approved at the execution. It's the right idea, the right philosophy. That's why we're asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u103	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u104	Please prepare a quality draft for the second reading of the bill. And we will be able to support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u105	Thank you. The will of the people is Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u106	Dear Head, dear colleagues, the problem screams. There is no water in the wells on Polissa today. And I think we should make a special decision here by the Supreme Council in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers. But I read, "There are changes to the Drinking Water and Water Act." What's going on? It's about sewage. The problem is being turned over to the local budget. Now, every local authority will determine the criteria that the water supply is considered acceptable, and this is not really about the responsibility of enterprises that pollute water sources. For example, please. A Ponkin paper combination from the Hmiel Region dumps waste in the river Homo and Svet, and people drink this water. And the responsibility for determining the criteria actually rests with the local authorities. We know what these criteria will be. When there should be only rules for the whole country and now these rules will be established by every local administration. Well, isn't that absurd? Well, that's absolutely absurd. And we obviously need to talk about drinking water, not sewage. But responsibility for the quality of drinking water rests on local water ducts. And they will accept what they are given. I can see that I need to make a serious systemic decision. You can't look and take butterflies!? I'm sitting there watching. We're taking "legislative butterflies" and we're putting in the right markings that we've done a huge job. There should be a central policy, there should be only one health policy, and we shouldn't let them down, taking into account the circumstances. After Chernobyl, we brought all the rules into line. With the results of the Chernobyl tragedy. What are we doing?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u107	Thank you. Self-help is Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! Today it is absolutely necessary to adopt this bill as a basis. Why? Because today the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers repeals the rules on the discharge of sewage into local sewers. An unguided process of dumping into urban sewers or sewerage of populated sewers from industrial enterprises that cannot even be fined for excess pollution will begin. That's impossible. And that's when, if we don't accept this bill right now, all of these pollutions and impurities are going to go supernormally on. In fact, it's the consumer that the population is today. We should not allow this and create conditions for adequate rules to be adopted at the level of the population, for consumers who are polluters to pay for excess pollution. The polluter has to pay, and we have to create these rules at the level of the law. As for changing the Drinking Water Act. Absolutely mature.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u109	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u110	The issue of the development and adoption of the Sanitation Act, the decentralization of sewage, has come to an end so that our septics will not continue to pollute groundwater. And really, maybe then we would do a revision of the Drinking Water Act and move these positions. But today's request for everyone's support is based on doing some of the things that need to be done and not allowing the sewage to be polluted excessively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u111	Thank you. One minute, Lewchenko, one minute, Dombrowski, and we're going to vote, colleagues, in two minutes, there's going to be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I've just heard about the law being passed because the Cabinet of Ministers canceled a certain post. Well, this is an example of another case where, instead of properly regulating the legal relationship in a constitutional way, there are totally wrong things being done in a geological way. The point is that the position that we have here is to move and allow water canals through the rules for the adoption of sewage to set tariffs is completely unconstitutional and this is a complete nonsense. So you give a status to a completely subordinate document, an internal water channel document you give it the status of a normative, essentially an act of law. What the fuck is wrong with you? So the canal itself can change the tariffs that it receives. So, of course, you can't vote for such a bill, it's unconstitutional, it's absurd, and it will certainly lead to an increase in plumbing tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Dombrowski, one minute. Colleagues, in a minute, there will be a vote, please invite everyone to the hall and prepare for the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u114	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, in this room any practical real decision or practical bill is an attempt to politicize and raise practically to the level of the Constitution. But as a person who worked for both the city's head and the head of the district government, and has a great deal of experience in housing and utilities, I can say, there are three very important questions for any authority of local self-government: it's garbage, and Lviv has shown how serious a problem this is; it's heat that we've just not voted for, but what it has to do with each family; and water, and water supply. On the first reading of this bill, we need to adopt, work on, and even the nuances that there are. But the problem of water and sanitation pollution is more up to date today than ever. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u115	Thank you, colleagues. Let's do it again. All right, one more minute, Vice Prime Minister, very brief. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I fully support the people's deputies, who clearly understand the technical issues in this bill. The general rule is established by Kabmin. The rules that are set in place, approval is local self-government. Not by water, but by local self - government, which clearly knows the composition of the industry, the number of polluted enterprises operating in the area, and the amount that should be paid for. It's in this direction. These are the funds that can be recovered from polluting enterprises that are part of local self-governance that will be invested in increasing water purification and, above all, the quality of water that is supplied. So I'm asking for your support, because this is a technical issue that deals with a lot of things that today relate to water quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u117	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Please, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water (for the improvement of certain provisions) (number 4582) as a basis, colleagues. Just for the basis. Who is warned, we will be able to work on the first and second readings. We will be able to make all the necessary suggestions and correct the matter. And I ask you to support the bill of Law 4582. Please vote and please support. [[12:01:58]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the deputies. Now a brief announcement of an exhibition going on the 3rd floor in us, Irina Heratchenko, with your permission. Please listen carefully to take advantage of the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, there is an exhibition in the towers of the Supreme Council dedicated to the Krivbas Battalion. Regrettably, among the fine representatives of the battalion are the boys who are still in the hostages. And I think it would be right for all of us to watch this show to morally support our hostages. There are their mothers, the wives of the captives, also to support them so that they can make sure that we care about the release of the boys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations, a 30 - minute recess is announced. We'll meet in the hall at 12.35 p.m. At 12.35.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs to continue our work. I remind you, we're talking about construction and housing. The next bill, which is in the order of the day, 4555 and 4555-1. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. Please. I ask the secretariat to invite deputies into the hall because even voting for a reduced procedure will be difficult in the objective conditions we are currently in. Brothers and sisters, please come into the hall. Please enter the hall from the towers, there will be a vote in favour of a reduced procedure, and we will need 150 votes. Please. Dear colleagues, while the MPs are coming, I would like to inform you that we now have the mothers of our captured heroes, our captured soldiers, Karpov Oleg, Markin Andria, Sugak Ruslan, Lazarus Alexander, Gerasimenko Mikoli. I want all of us to celebrate their courage and their loyalty. I would like us all to say that we will do our utmost to have your children released and released from captivity. [[Applause]] Spirit and Courage. And we'll do everything we can to make them free as soon as possible, and I promise I'll have a meeting with you on break two through four. I repeat, the mothers of our captives have just entered. We wish you courage, courage. And thank you for your sons. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the agenda. We have the next question in the agenda: 4555 and 4555-1, bills that are actually agreed upon by all factions. Moreover, the government went to support the MP's bill, considering that it was prepared more qualitatively, here we have full consensus in the room. I have a request that we support the proposal for a reduced procedure and I ask you to take your seat and support the proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal to support bill 4555 and 4555-1 under the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me, colleagues, please vote, please vote. [[12:46:37]] For the 110. Colleagues, I'll put it back together. But, colleagues, if we go into full reading right now, we can't go through the block, especially, this bill, it's extremely short and simple in its essence. Colleagues, I would just like to ask you not to seek political discussion in this bill, but to support the group. Colleagues, it's a really simple and short bill that's supported by all, in fact, factions, more than that, it's a parliamentary bill. I'm asking you to come into the hall so we can get the required number of votes. Colleagues, they've got a sense of responsibility, can we vote? Colleagues, please support. Colleagues, support the abbreviated. I'm going to re-proposal the bill 4555 and 4551 on a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please come to the workplace. Who is there in the hall, colleagues, but we count by vote literally? Please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. [[12:48:32]] For-140. I'll do it again, 10 votes, why don't we pick them up, colleagues? You know what my logic is as a leader? And the logic is that we went through the block and then we were able to move on to the next block. We can't go to intensive work, the more the bill is really not complicated, it's really simple, and it doesn't need to be discussed in full. I know that some do not agree with me that everyone should follow the full procedure. But I think if you read the bill, you'll support the proposal for a shortcut. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm asking you to take jobs so we can start working at the end of the day. As our classic used to say, "Work, work and work." Ready? I'm putting the vote again, colleagues, and I'm asking you to support the consideration of bill 4555 and 4555-1 under reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Support me. [[12:49:55]] For-162 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the bill that amends the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Sources of Energy to take heat pumps to equipment that uses renewable energy sources. We are now completing an even larger list of the same energy that should be referred to as an alternative and that we will not only be able to move towards adapting national legislation to the legislation of the Energy Community, but in particular the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28th since 2008 on encouraging the use of energy produced from renewable energy sources." You know that Ukraine, by signing the Paris Convention, has taken on quite serious commitments, but with quite serious commitments, we are giving a road map virtually to our consumers, how to move towards expanding the list of renewable energy that can be used and, most importantly, used to reduce gas consumption. And that means direct movement towards the country's energy dependency. So that's why this law introduces and refines the concept of "renewable energy sources" by completing such forms of energy as hydrothermal, aerothermal, and also determining that the typical energy produced by heat pumps from aerothermal, hydrothermal or geothermal energy is considered to be such that it is produced from alternative sources of energy. So we increase the equipment count, we increase the possibility and we increase the possibility of executing the Paris Convention. On the other hand, I'd like to support Mr. Head, I wouldn't say it's even more qualitative, but it's this bill in alternative bill 4555. I thank the group of deputies who, after drafting this bill, introduced new terms for "erothermal energy," "hydrothermal energy" and "geothermal energy." It's probably very complicated things, very complicated technical things, but that's exactly what makes it possible even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u123	further expand the use of renewable energy sources and move towards the country's energy dependency. So thank you again for your support and please support Bill 4555-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u124	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security to report. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u125	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. First of all, I want to thank the mothers of those heroes who are now temporarily in captivity, and I urge the Ukrainian authorities to do everything they can to make our heroes come home more quickly. Thank you, and we pray for your sons and husbands. Secondly, I am very pleased that the government has supported our bill. In doing so, he admitted that if the government cooperates with the deputies, cooperates with the committee, and not criticises the position of MPs on the government’s underprivileged bills, it would be better for the state. What makes our committee bill different? We add a few more terms to the definition: aerothermal energy, geothermal energy, hydrothermal energy. In doing so, we can report to the Energy Society on our obligations. By 2020, we need to raise to 11 percent the generation of alternative energy sources. We now have 1.3 of them made from the sun, wind and small GES, and about 4. 4.5 gives us a big GES. So we have 6.5 together, and we need 11. We're out of time. So we're adding these things that should have been in order for us to get the right answer. The bill clearly states that this is a report to the Energy Society, where it's not about giving green tariffs or tax benefits. We give you a defined portion of the calculation according to the methodology that will be developed by Dergenergo efficiencies. And we suggest taking into account the energy of heat pumps, not only do they feed on thermal power plants. In fact, the committee took a directive, translated it, and put it into a bill that became more qualitative than the government provided. Request to support the committee's decision, vote as a basis and as a whole. There's nothing more to fix and let's not stain the hall with little bills for second reading. Asking for support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u126	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Alexei. Please record: two for, two against, please. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u127	Please pass the word Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u129	I want to speak to the Deputy Prime Minister. Gennady Grigorovich, we began our sessions after a break from honoring the families of those soldiers who are in captivity who are at war today. And that was a reminder to us today that we have a war on the border with Ukraine and there are points that require special attention from the authorities. So I want to draw your attention to what's going on in Genichesk. And Genechesky probably knows everyone in Ukraine and Europe, that's the territory that's on the border with Crimea. Today, because you're completely inactive, the city of Genicek is gas-free, it can't go into a heated period. The people of Genichesk are said to have to go from their homes to others. Centers where the heat is, leave your apartment. And nothing, I emphasize, is being done to calm the population, despite the fact that last year there were provocations when the Russian Federation claimed that it was it that gave gas to Genecheski. Do you realize that today your lack of activity in terms of gas supply in Genichesk is putting security in our country at risk? We're adopting these laws that one of the deputies here rightly called butterflies, but you're not doing anything to get the country involved in the heating period, especially in places where the security of our country is. I want to say that even in district centers, those TECs that are in your system, you have to do it, organize them to go into a heating period. We're not ready today. Herson's TEC can't go into a heated period today because it's not ready for that. Half of the city of Herson is unheated. Then you'll talk about the fact that there's damage in this company because it can't work effectively. Today's business damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u130	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u131	Yeah, because you didn't run it, the heat's gone, the heat's selling out the wrong quality, people aren't paying for it, the business is going to go down. I would like to emphasize once again: Genesis must be warm, you must understand the responsibility that you have today, including your work, to protect our country’s borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u132	The fluent Grigory Mikhailovich conveys the word Solovy. No, Dombrowski. Dombrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, I will allow myself to go back to the 4555 bill that we are discussing and pay attention to. First of all, I think that's a good enough example when in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Committee of Fuels and Energy, there's an opportunity very professionally to draft those bills and put them into the room to make decisions essentially, not in form. And so I thank the committee very much for that active position and great work. Position number two. It's a purely technical bill that doesn't need much discussion. It allows us to take into account in monitoring our commitments to the Energy Union completely new technologies related to geothermal energy or heat pumps. And this enables us to raise to some extent the status of our nation in fulfilling our energy obligations. I therefore support the position of my colleagues to vote not only on the ground but on the whole in the second reading, and to enable Ukraine to move forward on energy reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u134	Thank you. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u135	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the government representative. Why is there absolutely little money in the budget for the next year for energy-generating? Because the dragon tariffs imposed by Nazcomisi on the regulation of the utility market and government officials prevent most citizens from paying these tariffs. So the only way to solve this problem is at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of fraud, energy-generating. For example, the people who put a boiler in the village 10-15 years ago, when they gassed the house, they don't have the opportunity to replace this boiler today. This has to be done at the expense of the state budget, it has to be done at the expense of fraud. The same counters. Now there's a plague: the counter puts one on the entire apartment building in the city, instead of counting the amount of heat, water, gas put on each apartment, so that the person pays just as much as he consumes, not the average. the size of the house. In addition, the budget for the following year provides over 60 billion dollars for subsidies, while less than a billion dollars for energy-generating. How are we going to overcome energy dependence? How are we going to modernize? I have a question for the government. How are you going to modernize housing and utilities when you put the whole nation on the doping needle of these subsidies, essentially preserving poverty and energy dependence? So we're asking you to budget the following year for the replacement of boilers, especially in rural areas, for the installation of individual counters for each apartment, for every dwelling, and this is certainly a massive energy-generating country that is on time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to come into the hall, in a minute, there will be two short speeches yet, but please invite everyone into the hall. Now Solovay is a minute and then Vice Prime Minister, the minute is final. Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u137	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I think this bill is important, some want to downplay its role, but it's important today absolutely in time. Because we've been discussing gas issues for the past two years, while the whole world has been discussing alternative sources of energy for a long time. And for example, two weeks ago, Tesla's founder, Ilon Musk, presented a modern roof that would allow buildings to be heated exclusively by the energy of the sun. This is a vivid example of the dissonance of what is said in Ukraine and of what is now a daily order in the world. And so this law, which just stimulates the development of alternative energy, is such a small step to develop our competitiveness as a state and the competitiveness of our economy. I think we have nothing to force this law into two readings. Let's take this law as a whole and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u138	I'll give you my word. Mr. Alexei Rybchin, Alexei, is a technical correction that is being discussed, and you can talk to Lechchenk. Now, one minute, please, Gennady Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that you need to work in the regions, you need to communicate with your people, and I'm proposing to the national MPs who, after the plenary week, will come home, to have a conversation, including with Andrey Gordie's head of the Herson district administration, who will report to you on a specific supply of gas to Genicese. But on the other hand, I would like to offer you as a national deputy to do this investment project, which has a technical economic justification, and to allow you to conduct a pipeline that will allow you to develop the genetic area as a whole, not just the city of Genesis, supplying gas from the mainland, not the well that works in the Azov Sea today. And here we need joint work and national deputies and executive branch of power, and directly local administrations. I would also like to support Oleg Valeriovich Lalashka, who spoke and said that we need to increase investment in energy efficiency today. Maybe when you look at the budget, you actually increase the direction it's going to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u140	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u141	to continue the programme that deals with providing alternative boilers to the population and to allow compensation to people for at least 20 per cent of the purchase of boilers on alternative energy sources. So, please work together, work together, work together, approve investment projects together, both global, by providing whole areas and the city of Genicek, and directly by helping our Ukrainian families to compensate for their energy-efficient costs, including the acquisition of non-gas boilers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u142	Thank you. I would like to ask if the drafter of the bill has been shaken by the question, is there really any technical thing that we should fix? Mr. Alexi, can we put it to a vote? Can we put it to a vote? We can, right? Dear colleagues, all who took part in the discussion, expressed the conviction that we should vote on both the first and the second readings a very simple technical law. If there is a need to make an amendment, Rybchin may now announce it. You don't agree with her, do you, Mr. Alexei? You can vote. Then, Your Honor, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Sources of Energy to take heat pumps to equipment that uses renewable energy sources, number 4555-1, that's the MP. Both the committee and all speakers, I stress, all speakers called for it to be voted on as a basis and as a whole. So I'm voting and I'm asking you to support the committee's decision. Please vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[13:06:59]] For 226 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Congratulations, Mr. Alexi, on the bill you passed. Colleagues, I'm announcing several times before there's a vote, and in the last minute, they start running. Well, you have to be more careful. So the next draft of Law 4564 is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Administrative Services Act. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:07:47]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I realize that today it's hard to look at an entire package of very technical drafts. But it's also an important bill because today's amendment to the Law on Administrative Services, namely, the introduction of the first, eighth, 11th, 13th part of the Law on Combined Production of Heat and Electricity, cogeneration and the use of reduced energy potential, will provide the basis for the certification of a cogeneration facility, the fuel ownership of an alternative, subject and their authorization to provide such administrative services, the list and the requirements of the documents necessary for receiving such services, and the free and the deadline for providing such services. So we need to take that into account, because today we have a lot of deterrence factors that don't allow us, at the same time, to use alternative energy sources, to generate electricity, and thus to build virtually that capacity, those first steps to enhance the country's energy independence. Therefore, the direct amendments to this bill on administrative services provide an opportunity to solve both certification and authorisation problems and to obtain such a certificate in order to determine that this facility is working on alternative fuels. So I would like to support it so that our national deputies will support it as a whole and a very simple but technical bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u144	Thank you. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on PEC by Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this bill is very simple in its essence. In May, we voted with you on a law that was enacted on administrative services, and now we need to introduce two bills that have just been said by the Deputy Prime Minister, changes that would allow for greater transparency, greater clarity and more formalization. In part, we answer the question: Who has the opportunity to receive such administrative services? This bill answers the question of a clear list of requirements that may be made upon receipt of administrative services. He answers that this service is free of charge, which is of little importance. And another fourth position: how long does a body have the right to answer, and a clear list of reasons, either yes or no. There are absolutely similar conditions in relation to the alternative fuel bill. So there is a proposal to support this bill. And I ask the Fuel and Energy Committee to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u146	Thank you. Please prepare for the discussion and record: two for, two against. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Babak, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u147	In general, while supporting the State’s movement to improve administrative procedures and provide administrative services, I would like to point out that the bill is not as simple as it has been mentioned today, namely, that the bill contains a whole section on the certification of alternative fuels to confirm that it is an alternative. Question: What is the point of confirming alternative fuels in Europe if the State grants one or more benefits to energy producers from such fuels? And then it's determined whether this fuel is really what it is. which upholds the principles of continuity, that the extraction and production of such fuel does not violate the principles of environmental development, biodiversity and so on and so forth. There's nothing to say about that. Moreover, there is no indication that we have alternative fuels both solid and liquid and gas. And liquid, solid fuel manufacturers, for example, pellet, today export their products very largely abroad. They don't need any certificates and no confirmation today, because buyers just take kilograms of that kind of fuel out of the right batch, they check for solubility, moisture, calories and no chemical ingredients, and that's enough. And we're introducing a whole certification system, without excluding or distinguishing from the kind of fuel that's going to happen. And in no way does it count our exporters. So, we think that the law is not ready to support, it doesn't take into account what is in Ukraine's markets today, and it doesn't make sense that the certificate and the fuel without proper State support or implementation of the principle that if there is State support, get such a certificate, there is no support, you don't need such a certificate. Unfortunately, this is not in the bill and is difficult to maintain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u148	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Nedava, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this block of bills that we are looking at today is very important for the state. And this is the first such powerful block of billing. I want to say that the alternative fuels that we already use in the country are being used in a chaotic way, and these bills allow more or less to be put within the framework of the law. I ask everyone to support these bills and this bill in particular. Yes, there are some problems, and there were also problems in Poland, for example, when 20 percent of the compensation was paid for using pellets, and in Poland, lots of forests were cut down, and then covered up, and the forests stopped cutting. But we have to figure out all of these, all of these questions, and we can look between the first and the second readings, and take all these questions into account. And I'm paying attention to all the deputies, my colleagues, that we didn't support the Water Supply Act, but it's a very, very big problem. A very big problem, as my colleague said, in the east and west. And for example, in my Slovenian, this problem affects all kinds of people, because there is no water to dump it anywhere, all rivers are polluted, and they are no longer coping with the challenges we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u150	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the statement of the People's Deputy, Alona Shkrum, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u151	I give you my word to Mr. Odarchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u152	Please, National Deputy Odarchenko "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u153	Gennady Grigorovich! In the government of Timoshenko was accepted, despite the fact that the hall was very complex at the time, there were very many political parties, but the Programme for Reforming the HKG was adopted, it was so convincing that deputies from various political parties supported it. And this program clearly marked the steps, the direction of the ministry that you're currently leading, yours directly to get the country out of the energy crisis: and the warm coats on the houses, and the counters, for that there were planned money and there was a concrete plan of action. Now it seems to me that you only support those laws that are passed by some grant organizations that are interested in only one direction of development. I'd like you to have a personal state policy, a systematic approach to reforming the LHC, and setting up the issues that we need to solve. I want to go back to the Genician problem. Hennady Grigorovich, you said wrong, the networks that go to Genichensk, this is state ownership and your duty, Hennaday Grigorovich, as vice-premier, to make a decision about people being with gas, not national MPs. By the way, all the deputies who are here in the Herson Hall signed a letter to you, the district council has taken the appropriate reference, and you start talking about some common plan. Hennady Grigorovich, remember, turn to the Security Service, see how difficult the situation is, and take urgent action to ensure that Hersonianity is the only one we have not yet mentioned about the captives, if it gets hot, God forbid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u154	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Natalia Royal, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we are now considering another bureaucratic proposal from the Government in the Hall. Because there will be simply additional administrative barriers. It is very beautiful in this bill that everything is written that qualifications are free of charge, that certificates are issued free of charge, that everything looks like it's absolutely cute on paper. But, dear colleagues, would you please raise your hand in the hall who believes that we will have a control body that will check you out, shake you out of the crowd, a lot of questions, and then give you something for free? Well, we don't see any hands up in the hall because all we have in the country is cheese and one lying in a mouse box for free. Therefore, the Opposition Block is a bill that does not solve the complex problem of housing and utilities, which does not solve today the complex issue of lowering tariffs, lowering gas prices, lowering heat prices, will not be supported. And once again we turn to the government: have a conscience, lower your wages. It's a shame to consider your non-professional bills for the kind of money you get. Therefore, the Opposition Block will not consider the bill, and we demand a reduction in tariffs for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please enter the hall and prepare for the decision, another minute of Hennaday Zubko, and ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u157	I think, dear colleagues, I think even the Opposition Block has admitted that these services are necessary, that they are given free, and that is how they are used. These are really the things that allow for the identification of the cogeneration that works on alternative sources of energy, and that's what will make it possible to simplify and step up steps towards the country's energy dependency. So I propose that this bill be supported and that we move on to a more simple, quality system for involving alternative energy sources into both the environment and industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u158	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the decision, and I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on draft Law 4564 amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services only as a basis, colleagues. Just on the basis, all the warnings that have been made can be added to the second reading. Please vote and please support base 4564. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:22:11]] For 204 Colleagues, may I put a vote on the committee for further work? Oleg, you're gonna back this up, right? So I put to the vote the following sentence: return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. You're going to support, right, that kind of offer? Everyone backs up, right, colleagues? I'm asking you to support the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, yeah, for work. It sounds literally like, "Go to the committee for re-reading." That's what it sounds like under the Rules. Let's get back to work. You'll support it, won't you? So I'm going to make the following suggestion: send a draft of Law 4564 to the committee for re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[13:23:22]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the next bill, this is the second reading, 4618. Accordingly, he provides for a second reading procedure. And we're going to look at it. Wait a minute! Colleagues, just a second, I'm going to find all the adjustments, because there's a lot of lines so we can go over there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u159	There's no law, is there? Yeah, sorry, sorry, there's just no right-hand side, so that's why I can't find them. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the issue of the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear safety, Rybčin Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u160	Alexy Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. The honourable chairman, honourable deputies, this bill, which is under consideration, proposes to exclude from article 8 of the Ukrainian Law "On Alternative Fuels" part-third and fourth, which provides for mandatory inclusion in the State Register of Producers of Rare Biological Fuels and Biogas in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In a simple language, the State should keep a biofuel register if benefits are to be applied to it. These benefits are no longer applied to biofuels, which is why there is no need to keep this register. We have to decide strategically if there's any kind of tax system, we don't have to cancel. But now there are no benefits, which is why it is suggested that the bill be supported in the second reading and that no amendments have been made. And I also want to point out that last time this bill was put in place, we also proposed by the committee to vote on the basis and in general, we only supported this 196 deputies, and now we are wasting the time of the Supreme Council to consider this bill. So the request to support this bill, it's very simple, it's technical, and we're no longer returning to it, asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There is no remedy and therefore there is no basis for discussion. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. We immediately move on to making a decision. Can we vote? I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Alternative Fuel Act in second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:26:59]] For 225 225. We didn't make it. I see we're not there yet, colleagues. Please enter the hall, concentrate. I see, I see, we haven't made it. So I'm proposing to go back to the 4618 vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote for the return. Please vote for the return. Please vote back, for your return, please. [[13:27:39]] For 240 240 for. Decision taken. Colleagues, I now put it back in second reading and in total 4618. Please be supportive. Please vote. Alternative fuels. Please vote 4618. Please support me. Vote. [[13:28:06]] For 243 243 for. Decision taken. The law is passed. Welcome to the successful law, colleagues. Now we have two drafts, on which the Conciliation Council was urged by several factions and several committees as urgent. In particular, there is now a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws (for the creation of printed media by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and military and civil administrations at the time of the ATO). Security laws are always there. They are uniting the hall, and we are trying to carry them out as quickly as possible to provide additional resources for our army and for our information security, including. So I ask you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote. 508 – short procedure. Please. [[13:29:14]] For 172 172 in favour, the decision is made. I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u162	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! The bill is extremely simple, it's small. You and I have made a reform that Ukraine hasn't done in 20 years, it's a disincentive of the print media. And we didn't want to make exceptions at the time of this reform, because there were requests for a lot of exceptions. They wanted to leave their specialized publications and other institutions behind. But today we are faced with a situation where we are also forced to support the media of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense. We get hundreds of letters from Ukrainian soldiers. And today, of course, such media. Especially one. You know, we've done a certain audit that today exists in the media at the Ministry of Defense. Of course, there is a great deal of absurdity because there are four publications. We have the Ministry of Defense publishing four editions, working 200 journalists. These publications are hardly seen by anyone. For example, we have a version of the Ukrainian Fleet. There's no fleet, and the Ukrainian Fleet is, yes. I mean, this ridiculous stuff. In this law, we propose leaving one, but extremely powerful, media medium, which would be a weekly one for Ukrainian soldiers who would take a patriotic stand. And that we're there. Actually, what's the innovation in this law here? That this one powerful media tool should form an editorial college that will include both press officers and journalists working in the ATO area that would produce the position that Ukrainian soldiers need today. This law will be in force at the time of the antiterrorist operation. Next, the Ministry of Defense will have to destabilize and this reform will take place. But there is a huge request now to support Ukrainian soldiers to receive a fresh press weekly directed to the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u163	Thank you very much. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u164	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, it might not seem a very interesting question, but it is actually very important in the context of national security and defence of Ukraine. Let us bear in mind that information and propaganda work is no less important than forceful protection than weapons, other forms and methods of fighting. Let us recall when our native Ukraine was occupied by the fascists, flyers scattered where people in occupied territories were informed and engaged in subversive propaganda. I think in terms of Russian aggression today, weakening the propaganda front of the state, that's not right. Reformed before, I was recently in Winnitz on district television, and district television says, "How are you going to conduct state policy?"no state radio, no state television, reformed so-called social television in the third decade by rating. As you're going to lead to the knowledge of Ukrainian citizens -- the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, the information material about the army, the security, the decisions made to increase security when all television, newspapers and radio commercialize and say, "Pay money and we'll tell you about the achievements of the army or the announcement of the state of emergency in the section "Commercial advertising". That's why I'm in favour of dissipation, but in terms of military aggression, under conditions. Russia, you say 200 journalists in the Ministry are working, in Russia thousands of journalists and thousands of boots are working against Ukraine and against the civilized world. So I'm convinced that the propagandist information element in the reflection of Russian aggression is extremely important and we should not deprive the state of these possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u165	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev, "self-help", conveys the word to Taras Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u166	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopolish. Dear colleagues, it's obvious that Self-Help will support this bill, because the information ingredient today is a fairly important element in this war that we are today conducting with the Russian Federation, the aggressor country. But we have one single warning. I just remember when I was a soldier myself, I read in the Debalce newspaper, which produced our Mini-Defense, and I read how the Chief of General Staff loved our army very much. If this is going to continue to be a newspaper that praises the activities of the heads of the military and civilian administrations, celebrates and praises the Minister of Defense or the Chief of the General Staff or the Chief of Staff, then unfortunately, I don't think we're going to need that kind of press. Even though we are able to establish, we need to talk about the content that will be reported through these media. And even though I think it's extremely important and it's long overdue for us to finally hear here the position of our ministry, which is responsible for these issues, what it did during the occupation to make the information space saturated, in fact, by the Ukrainian content, not by actually worrying about those who are currently hiring them to work. So the Self-Help faction supports, but we insist that even within the same civilian control that we're talking about, we should see in advance that editorial policy that will be run by these media, and not spend any money on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u168	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, we were firmly against this bill in the part where it was possible to issue and state newspapers by the administrations of Donetsk and Lugansk. We've seen some of these newspapers today's administrations. There's the celebration of the coalition, the glorification of the government, and so on. There are no newspapers that provide information on how to live, who to turn to, and where to find protection. Now this rule has been removed. I want to support a colleague from the Self-Help faction in warning that the newspapers will. So that they won't call us at night and text the MPs, that's all, let's make sure that the committee controls that there's a column where soldiers can send text messages for those officers who don't stand up for them, for those people who go drinking, for those who don't have guns, for the newspapers that they feel for them, and they'll help them in the most difficult times of our war. And that's why. We support this bill, but as Head of the Supreme Council, I think you should give the task of giving the committee a very serious role in the policy of publishing these newspapers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander. I'll remind you that the committee is only offering us a base and we can, between the first and the second readings, make your right suggestions and work them out. Please, Mamachure Julius Valeriyovich. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Julius.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u170	Mumchure Julius, Peter Dustock's Block. I fully support this bill. But I wanted to warn our colleagues that we don't have a fleet or we don't have a Armed Forces. We have a fleet, we have an aircraft, we have ground troops, we have security services, everything is evolving and everything is well financed. And in the future, colleagues, please follow your words, because this offends the vast numbers of military personnel who are now risking their lives for the front. There are profile newspapers like the Ukraine Wings, the Ukraine Fleet, they bring out the problem, but they also bring out our gains. So please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u171	Thank you. I fully support Mr. Julius. We have an army, there's a fleet, there's an aircraft that's ready to resist the aggressor, and every day it's resisting the aggressor on the front. That's true. Let's support them. Let's do it, let's help make one powerful serious body of our propaganda. And, colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'd like to point out that it's just the first reading. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation of printed media by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and by military and civilian administrations at the time of the anti-terrorist operation, No. 508. Colleagues, please vote. And I'm asking you to support 508 as a base. Please vote. [[13:39:15]] For 226 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. I want to make a fruitful second reading to take into account the suggestions that have been made. Dear colleagues, our next one is a bill from the same block, it's (4815) a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. I invite the head of the Freedom of the Word Committee, Sümar Victoria Petrovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u172	It's a short line. I never said we didn't have the Armed Forces. And I remember very well how they were created in 2014, no less than most here. With regard to the bill that we are now considering, colleagues, you and I are considering. It's a second reading. This is about the possibility for the National Television and Radio Council to impose softer sanctions on television speakers than is currently provided for in legislation. Because now the Nacrad has the opportunity to issue a warning, two warnings mean that the license is actually revoked, that the license is not to be renewed for the television company. In this bill, which we've considered for the second reading, it's about the ability of the Nakrad to impose fines. Moreover, if after the fine the company does not repeat this violation, the fine is eliminated over the course of the year, and the remark, in fact, does not apply to this television company. In principle, we had many conversations with representatives of the television companies, they were present on the committee. The committee held more than 5 working meetings to finalize the bill, and more than 60 amendments were made. We're ready to report every correction. I think we've come up with a consensus option that could bring together today's speakers and give the national independent regulator the opportunity to still influence the information space so that it has fewer features, such as separatism and other things that are sometimes on our air. Second reading. I'm gonna need some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the amendments. First amendment by the people's deputy Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, do you insist? Don't insist. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Sold. Mrs. Oksana Sold! Mrs. Oksana Sold! Dear colleagues. Don't insist. Amendment number nine from the Bereza People's Deputy. Is he insisting? You insist. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Borislav Berezi. He doesn't insist. Sorry. People's Lechchenko, 10th Amendment. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u174	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I would like to point out that the law is very right, and we certainly support it. My amendments, the two amendments that are designed to eliminate it, I think, are failures that can give rise to, basically, bad media owners avoid completely the requirements of this law. This amendment 10, proposed in the amendment to article 35, part 3, of the Law, proposes to expand the list of grounds for reshaping the language licenses by changing the information about the founder of the coowner or owner, the coowner of the applicant. And the proposed wording is not clear enough what is meant by the word "change of information" that creates a prerequisite for a different understanding of information space subjects. So my amendment is to add changes to the information defined by the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, Entrepreneurs. So that there is no variation here so that there is no way to avoid the implementation of the law. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u175	Thank you. The content of the amendment is clear. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, Amendment 10. Please vote [[13:43:36]] For-127 Thank you. 127 national deputies supported the amendment. It's not coming through. Let's go to the next amendment number 15, Deputy Kiwalov. Don't insist. 16 Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Are you insisting? He insists. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u176	Thank you. I regret, of course, that it is solely because of the political motives, there, the non-loving individual MPs, that such things are obviously not supported by the committee at first, and then by most in the Supreme Council. Because these are completely technical remedies that are meant to improve the bill so it doesn't have any gaps. Similarly, here is the proposal to supplement part four with the new sentences proposed to establish that prior to the application for a change of license in relation to a change in the founder (founder), or owner (owner), and (or) the related licensee provides information on the structure of the property with regard to the changes made. Yes, questions related to the change in the ownership of information activities are settled in part four of article 12, part nine of article 40, part two of article 59 of the law and are reported annually by relevant subjects of the national regulator. At the same time, the bill does not contain rules that would harmonize the proposed proposals with those provisions of the law. So essentially it's proposed to put in law an appropriate coalition that will again create some problems to make these positive changes in this law. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u177	Do you want to comment? Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u178	Yeah, I want to comment. Mr. Jury, we're really all thinking together and Freedom is always supporting those laws that are aimed at protecting the information space. The point is why the amendment was rejected because it was similar to the one that took into account the terminology that was in the previous version of the first reading of the final beneficiaries. You see, there were several amendments to the same, and only from the question. They put the same things in, it's just that the terminology is normal, and the logic itself is kept. I can do it now. To vote on the hall, then we'll have different treatises: "beneficiary" or "final owner" -- that's all. And logic is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u179	Thank you, dear colleague, for explaining. Thus, the amendment of the Levchenka People’s Deputy number 16 is made, which is technical. And we heard an explanation of the profile committee. Vote, please. [[13:46:05]] For-127 Thank you. 127 votes, doesn't pick up the right amount. Next amendment number 17 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. Does the People’s Deputy insist? Don't insist. Next up, 18th. People's Deputies of Morocco. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u180	Deputies! Regrettably, this bill is yet another component of the administrative pressure system on the media. You have to understand that. For example, the bill provides for the approval of the Nacsovét in the form of cancellation of a licence for failure to comply with the Nacsovét order. You people are all experienced and well aware that it is very easy to create an excuse to revoke licenses in the form of an order of the body that wants to do so. Such an administrative pressure system would have an extremely negative impact on Ukraine's investment attractiveness, in particular the development of the media. We want independent investors to enter this sector. But how can they go if, for a simple failure to comply with the order, the disputed order of the National Council, the investor can lose his license and lose tens of millions of investments there. My rights propose to remove these idiosyncratic rules from the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, microphone to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u182	I'm stressing that this amendment is not about the media, it's about the providers that provide technical things. Do you know what our problem is with providers? We have banned Russian television channels, but their providers include them, especially in the south and east of the country. And if the Nakrad promotes this and goes to court, and they're going to get it, and they're going to be dislicensed, I'm going to be very grateful to Nakrad for that, because it's a protection of the information space in this case. What's more, I want to tell you, being brought to court, not without a court decision, is an entirely European practice. Please reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u183	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, amendment 18 of the People’s Deputies of Morocco is put to the vote. [[13:48:31]] For-65 Thank you. Next amendment number 20 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. Now, one minute, I'll take a look. 19 Amendments to Olenia Condratjuk count. You're putting her on the stand? National MP Lazko insists on 19 amendments. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Laszka. This is the Condratuk repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u184	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We're discussing a bill that actually reinforces sanctions, gives the National Council the opportunity to apply more severe sanctions to television channels on television and radio. But I have a question: isn't it enough in the Nacradia today to, for example, call for the responsibility of Inter, where separatists from Moscow work? The board can't see it, the BSS can't see it, the authorities can't see it, they're broadcasting Separatist Kremlin politics on the inside, the Nakrad is silent. Why are you silent? You don't have enough authority? No, you have more than enough authority, but you have an agreement of authority with the Owners of the Intera, secret arrangements. That's why Inter broadcasts Kremlin politics. Therefore, it is not the law that should be adopted to strengthen the powers of the Nakrad, but rather to change the composition of the National Council and force them to comply with the requirements of the law and not to cover separatists, such as the Inter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u185	Oh, I'm sorry, as we understand it, language was not about amendment 19, it was about position by law. I have the next proposal, amendment 19, taken into account by Mrs. Condratuk, the statement by the leader of the Radical Party faction did not apply to 19 amendments, so we don't put it on confirmation, and that was just a replica of the whole law. I have an offer, let's go to the Rules anyway. After the Nakrad vote, if there is such an insistence, he will receive the word. Right now, amendment number 20 of the People's Deputy. Don't insist. Then 22nd, Princess. Don't insist. Then on the 24th, the Kiwalov People's Deputy is missing. So he doesn't insist. 25th, Princess. Don't insist. 26th, Spinov. The Spanish National MP does not insist. 27th People's Deputies, Bilozore. Don't insist. 29th People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. Now, dear fellows, most of the amendments were taken into account by the committee really. 34th, Princess. Don't insist. 35th, I was walking. Don't insist. 42nd, Bereza Borislav. Don't insist. Next: 43rd, Kiwalov. Not here, so he doesn't insist. 47th, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Oksana Sold, 47th your repair. Don't insist. 50th, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 53rd, Bilozer. Don't insist. Next: People's Deputy Bilozore, 56th Amendment. Don't insist. Kiwalov, 58th. Don't insist. Olena Condratuk, 59th Amendment. Don't insist. 60th Amendment, People's Deputy Kugel. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have now concluded our discussion of amendments. And we're going to move on to making a decision. I'm asking all national deputies to return to the session room now. I know the speaker wants to join the vote. That's why there's gonna be a vote in a minute. We'll give you one minute to give us a word, with your permission, for now. It's a television and radio program. The head of the Nakradah on television and radio talk, you can comment on the position of the Nakrad with regard to this law. Please, one minute to Nakrad's head. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. We heard the consolidated position of the session hall. I'm asking you to come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mrs. Kugel, you. Well, I called you. Mrs. Kugel, we've announced the 70th amendment. We announced it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've just announced Nakrad, and then we'll come back to you. Please. Please, the head of Nakradya now, Mr. Artemenko, has one minute. Then, after Mrs. Kugel insists, we will return to her repair. I repeat to all colleagues, do not leave the room and return to vote for an extremely important bill that is supported by all factions, except one, if we have heard the discussion correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u186	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, distinguished colleagues! Artemenko Yuri, head of the National Council for Television and Radio. Here the name of Nakrad is one of the factions' leaders, and I'm not going to answer the question, on. My mother taught me one thing that, you know, you have to look at the log in your eye rather than the match in something else. I'm the other one who's yelling, "Hunting a thief!" Most of all, there's a thief. But I don't call it a last name, think about who wants it. I want to tell you something else, the law is absolutely necessary, and I want to sit here in the hall, and now I have to work for the National Council. If we don't fine, there's gonna be two bad things. We're never going to stop, and it's not like we're going to write fines on a particular Nacrada compound. Please change the Nakrad, otherwise, but give a tool to stop information aggression and then ask about it. And second, the existing warnings are a warning, they're not, you know, a tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u187	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, look here, your esteemed colleagues, the position of chairman now under this bill was as follows. Dear Mr. Andrew, give your word so that we may return to the session room. Now, National MP Kugel insists on going back to the 60th amendment, then the committee head's comment. Dear colleagues, let's vote and then I'll give you my word. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u189	[[From the Hall]] For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u190	We're going with the lady's motives, Mr. Oleg. Please, Mrs. Kugel's microphone, then the committee's head, the summary word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Mrs. Sumar and I have already spoken, she supports. We just didn't see that there's a technical amendment that replaces the word "application" for the Nacrada and changes not "leaves registrations" but "leaves licenses" -- it'll be true and in the wake of the bill. And Mrs. Sumar said that they support this amendment. I think we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u192	So you've expressed your position, you. Now. Mrs. Kugel, do you insist that we put this amendment to the vote? Now, please, a word for a comment is for the committee's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u193	Colleagues, we or we can put her to a vote right now, because this is a technical error, this was the last amendment, I don't know why there's no surveillance. Absolutely right, Mrs. Alexander, it's purely technical. True, we have electronic media -- they're in our possession. there's no registration, there's a license. We can either vote, or we can just write it down. We can write under the transcript in this case that, in part two of article 24 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting, the words “with a statement” should be replaced by the words “with an appeal” and the words “with respect to the cancellation of the national registration” should be replaced by the words “with revocation of the licence”. Under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, we're putting the last amendment to the vote, 60th, on confirmation. Everything, under the transcript, with what Mrs. Sumar said. All right, we don't vote. The committee's decision. Now, listen carefully to what's going on here. First, the leader of the radical faction insists on replication. 30 seconds, please, so we can get to the vote. The other one. On the basis of the reference, we ask that we not mention each other during the performances. Two: we ask you to do it now. Hall says they didn't mention it. That's it, that's it! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we must now vote on an important law. We heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Oleg Valeriyovich, do you mind? Out of place, please, one minute. We finished the discussion. Please call everyone in the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u196	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, honourable Ukrainians! As the leader of the Radical Party faction, I went to the head of the National Television and Radio Council with one question: why does the Nacrad not take action against the Separatist politics of the Intera, which actually conduct anti-Ukraine subversive activities against our own country? The head of the National Council, Mr. Artemenko, instead of answering my question on the substance of the bill under discussion, is beginning to accuse me of something. The answer, and the actual absence of an answer, shows that the Nakrad is actually "breathing" today "Inter," and it is because of the inaction of the National Television and Radio Council that the Inter has the opportunity to conduct its anti-Ukrainian policy without penalty. So in view of this, I insist on the resignation of the head of the Nacradia on the issue of broadcasting and converting the entire composition of the National Council, which today is covering separatists and executing orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! Please, one minute, Victoria Sumar. And please come into the hall, colleagues. Please concentrate as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we are now working on a very principled large and basic audiovisual service law. There we are going to change to some extent the principle of forming the National Television and Radio Council to make sure that there are as many professionals as possible who have chosen appropriate competitions. These are the things we need proposals about today. I think this law will allow us to monitor the effectiveness of the Nakrad's work in very detail. Because for every violation and every complaint, the citizen of Nacrad will now be able to respond by imposing a fine, and you and I will be able to use this law to monitor the effectiveness, the activities of the National Council. So I'm asking you to support it, and I'm going to continue to work on making the National Council truly one of the authorities in the information field. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m0.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're going to vote, and I want us to take our emotions off and unite around this law. This is a real mechanism for influencing our telespace in the information war that Putin is waging against Ukraine, and information security is no less important than monitoring security. Let's all join together, and the great phase work that the committee has done, we'll all support it, colleagues. So let's go to the decision-making process, and I'm putting to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act (to improve the procedure for applying sanctions by the National Council) (number 4815) at the request of a second-reading committee and in general. We support information security in Ukraine. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote in agreement and responsibly, please vote. [[2:01:55]] For 221 Four votes. Colleagues, I see they're not coming. Although I don't understand why you don't vote, boys. We've got to back up, colleagues. We've got to back up. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I see they're coming, please mobilize and step into the hall. Colleagues, please, four votes and there is a question of our country's information security, a real impact on the fact that Russian intelligence agents cannot hear themselves without penalty in Ukraine, and these are our voices, the responsibility of everyone, colleagues. Please take the lead in voting, take the job, and I'll put the motion to vote back to vote 4815. Please vote and please support, colleagues, please. To return to the vote, please support, colleagues, I ask you to vote responsibly, we vote, colleagues. [[14:03:10]] For 228 We're back. Colleagues, now I'm voting again. All right, everybody, take your seats. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (4815) on improving sanctions procedure by the National Council on second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, we support Ukraine's information security. [[14:03:48]] For 236 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors, colleagues. Thank you for the responsible decision. Colleagues, according to the Rules, we have a break. Therefore, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I ask everyone to attend the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I remind you, while Artemenko is present, that the Law on quotas on Ukrainian Radio, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, enters into force. And I want to warn you, any sabotage by the Supreme Council will be investigated and punished. I'm asking you to hear me, I'm asking Yuri Artemenko to hear me. Artemenko! I say that 8 numbers of the Ukrainian Radio Quotas Act come into force. If they do. And a song. If attempts and attempts are made, Parliament will quickly change punishment and criminal responsibility. I hope it doesn't come to that, and I think you'll support Parliament's position, and together, we'll, together, shoulder to shoulder, protect the Ukrainian song on the Ukrainian radio. [[Applause]] Thank you.
