ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, 10 o'clock. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for registration. Please. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues ready for registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register, colleagues. [[10:05:15]] A total of 297 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues who are with us in the hall. At Igor Vitaliovich Brichenko. Welcome to Igor Vitaliovich. [[Applause]] Alexander Grigorovich Dombrowski. Hello. [[Applause]] At the Arcadia of Aleksandrovitch Kornatsky. Let's welcome Kornatsky. [[Applause]] Ivan Ivanovich Kulichenko. Welcome to our colleague's birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have received several requests from Fatherland, Lalashka, from the People's Front and Fatherland. Also came a statement from the national deputies, and I will gradually announce these statements. So the first statement. For the first time in weeks in the ATO area, Russian mercenaries were using the city's fire systems. The situation on the front has deteriorated considerably. We, the Ukrainian National Deputies of various factions, members of the anti-terrorist operation, think that blocking the work of the Parliament of the warring country is a crime. Since our brothers are holding the outer front to the east, we must not allow our inner front to break through here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Parliament has to work. We definitely do not accept the language of ultimatums and provocations, nor do we try to undermine the adoption of strategic laws. All those who break up Parliament's work under any circumstances are deliberately or unconsciously playing at the enemy's hand. We believe that the Supreme Council should immediately vote on bills aimed at securing the Ukrainian army. Our task as national advocates is to show the Ukrainian people unity and common responsibility for working for our Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! People's deputies: Teteruk, Bereza, Bondar, Lapin, Gabrieluk, Solarar, Tkacouk, Barna, Velikichovich, many others, I can't read them all. The next statement is, two applications are for a recess. One statement from Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Front, but they're willing to replace the application with an application. And "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party. Are you ready to replace the application? No, it's not. Break. Then let's do it first. Then take a break and then two statements from two factions. Dear colleagues, in connection with the Ukrainian Law, two factions of Parliament have the right to declare a recess. I'm just convincingly urging everyone that in half an hour, at 10.35, we should all be in the conference room to continue our work. Dear colleagues, I announce a break of 30 minutes, until 10.35. At 10.35, please be in the conference room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Asking for an organic product exhibit on the 3rd floor. Thank you, colleagues. Everyone, please mobilize for our work. Today, there are many issues needed to resolve the Ukrainian army’s security requirements to support the Ukrainian army. I am convinced that all the feelings of duty before Ukraine, before our front, and I am confident that today will be a productive day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess at the request of two factions is over. And I invite you to speak from the faction of the Radical Party and the Fatherland of Oleg Valeriyovich Ljaska. Please give the opportunity to speak. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the Radical Party faction, from all of our colleagues who are now in parliament in democratic opposition, we want to draw your attention to what is going on in Parliament. The Radical Party faction, the Fatherland faction, fellow MPs from Freedom, the non-fractional national MPs for two days, we have been peacefully blocking Parliament and the presidency, demanding decisions that will allow for lowering the cost of housing services, investigating corruption and offshores of senior officials of the state. During all these days, for four weeks, the Radical Party faction blocked the parliamentary rostrum. We thank all our colleagues who have joined the blockade, and this has made us hear. Yesterday was the hope that we would find a compromise, that compromise could only be one, and we put out these demands, along with our colleagues from Homeland. The creation of a provisional commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on tariffs to establish, investigate, establish, establish, establish, establish, and investigate, the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on corruption, on the offshore, to investigate the offshore corruption of senior officials of the state of which the world writes. We demand that a coalition of parliamentary patriots in the Supreme Council adopt laws that will allow housing and utility costs to be reduced, that domestic gas go to the needs of citizens and households, that it reduce the rent on gas production for the state-owned company Crushing, and that this will affect domestic gas spending. We are proposing a number of other laws, such as a government order to recalculate the price of gas and return the tax rate to the citizens. Sadly, the authorities did not want to compromise, but the authorities did not want to hear the opposition and millions of Ukrainian citizens who supported our demands. Today, you saw, the authorities came, blocked the Presidency, blocked the parliamentary rostrum, thus depriving us of the opportunity to continue this protest. I want to tell the Ukrainians that we're not stopping our fight, we're moving into another form of protest. If someone's waiting for us to fight, no, we're not gonna fight here -- and create, give gifts to someone, but at the same time we won't let you rob the country. Today, you think you're blocking the rostrum from us. No, you're hiding from the Ukrainians, from the millions of people you're robbing. And don't hide on the front, because robbing ATO participants and their family members through tariffs is a crime, too. We're announcing a sitting strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to point out that anyone can step out of the rostrum. This means that there is no actual blockade today -- there is the provision of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Indeed, we had two days of consultation, two days. And yesterday we were close to compromise. And what I want to say is, I want to thank the Peter Dusty Block, which has demonstrated the ability to make huge compromises. Unfortunately, on the other hand, we've seen a complete lack of willingness to compromise. And unfortunately, we weren't able to get to the key issues yesterday at their decision, but, nevertheless, the agenda of the day's session is an issue that's too big to provide for the state, our citizens and the Ukrainian front. And I now give the floor to the two factions of Andria Teteruku. Please, Mr. Andrew, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u5	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, the distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to remind you that on June 5, 2014, a group of previously convicted people tried to block the expulsion of our Ukrainian forces in order to protect the country from Russian aggression. They were able to show that the Ukrainian army should be counted. And they're confidently securing the front from Russian aggression. Two streams later, on July 5, a group of national MPs are trying to stop Parliament from working to show that a small group of people are able to stop the work of the great Ukrainian Parliament. And we, the national MPs, who are representatives of the Ukrainian army in the Ukrainian Parliament, show that we are able to ensure the quality and full work of the Ukrainian Parliament in the most difficult conditions. I want to remind you that it is impossible to worry about Ukrainian tariffs for the person who signed Putin's contract at the price of gas, which has become the highest in the history of Ukraine. It is not possible to respect a person who seems to care for Ukrainian soldiers, but it has helped Putin to act aggressively against Georgia’s friend. It is absolutely impossible to believe that, for good reasons, tariffs do not return the old equipment from which they are thrown out and disposed of the cynically created billions of devices that make the necessary money out of the budget. Right now we are providing quality and seamlessly both the rostrums from which any MP can come out, as well as the work of the Presidium in order to adopt the very necessary bills for the country's defence. I want to say that no Kremlin can, no more Putin avatar will come to govern the Ukrainian country. We will do all we can to ensure that the Ukrainian Parliament does the Ukrainian will and protect the young independent and powerful Ukrainian nation first. Together, we will surely win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u6	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I'm asking my fellow National MPs to come into the hall and take their jobs. On a daily basis, we have the first law that stands is the law. The registration has already been carried out. Colleagues, I've already opened the morning session, and the registration has already taken place, I remind you. Now we're moving on to the agenda. And the first question that we have in the agenda is the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Employment Act on additional guarantees to promote the employment of members of the fighting, who were directly involved in the anti-terrorist operation, to ensure that it is carried out. This law was supposed to be here yesterday, unfortunately, yesterday we were unable to keep this law important to the Ukrainian army. I'm sure today we can discuss it and make a decision on this law. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion from the committee head that we consider it as a reduced procedure. And now I'm going to put a motion to vote in favour of a reduced procedure. I am very much asking you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, we are preparing to vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I'm voting on a motion for a brief procedure for draft Law 2095a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, let's support the ATO soldiers, please vote. [[10:45:49]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please, Mrs. Ludmila. Mrs. Ludmila, please. Mrs. Ludmila! Oh, you can't get through, can you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, good day to all. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today I report to you a very important bill that was previously introduced by our colleague, Mr. Vasyunik, but was then sent to work on our Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement. We've worked on it a little bit, we've taken into account all the comments and suggestions from all the people's deputies who have expressed them: this is Vanat, Romanovski, Kudlainko and Mr. Vasjunik himself, and the committee members -- and we're proposing to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Who does it concern? It refers to those involved in hostilities that were involved in an anti-terror operation, where they are accounted for in state employment centres. They are included in the quota for employment, which is 5 percent, each employer should accept them. If he accepts them for two years, he'll be back, so the employer, the EU, that's the tax they pay for this person from the employment budget. So I ask you very much, support our participants in the fighting that have been, who are now and protecting our state from the Russian aggressor, so that they come and have the right to work, and employers have employed them. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ludmila. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Oleg Bérezük conveys the word to Taras the Shepherd. Please, Taras Shepherd. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u9	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. We're going to support this bill, although it's largely undecided for our participants in combat. The only thing they wanted to do was fix it. I wanted to fix a colleague who reported in the rostrum. This bill does not apply to participants in an anti-terror operation, because there are a lot of people on this list, and this is directly related to those involved in the hostilities, or those who were directly involved in the hostilities. So I think that they need to create an extra benefit and we're ready to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u10	Igor Vasilovich Vasjunik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u11	Of course, the People's Front faction will support this bill, because the employment issue of ATO participants is one of the most fundamental issues that comes out of a meeting with military personnel. This law will in any way increase the social status of ATO participants. But I have a request, Mr. Head. As we make changes to one article alone, the second reading is virtually limited, so the request to vote for it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u12	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that another speech will take place in five minutes. I'm asking the people's deputies all to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine faction, I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall, and there will be a vote now. And the heads of the factions I strongly request the deputies to be invited to the hall. And I would like to give the floor to Mr. Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u13	Please give it to Alexander Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u14	Our faction will certainly support this bill as a whole. On our Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons, we have studied and fully supported ATO participants. I also appeal to the entire House to support this bill. And at the same time, I ask that the daily bill from our faction 4723 be put into order, is a bill to pay the Ministry of ATO to vote on it. Convincing request, the House supports this bill, because it is the Ministry that deals with displaced persons, participants in the ATO, and people have to be paid for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. We talked to you about this. This is indeed a very important bill, and it really is necessary for the defence. If there's no objection in the hall, I'll suggest you put it in the agenda. If it's 226, we'll look at it. The Supreme Council's apparatus I'm asking for Bill 4723 to pass on to me in the Presidency, and I'm going to propose to include it in the agenda. Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Dear colleagues, I ask you to discuss the bill. All factions support him. And there's a proposal for it to vote on the basis and in general, it's also a proposal from the committee, and it's a proposal from all the national MPs who've made statements. And, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'll conduct the first rating vote with your permission. And then we'll move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and take your seats. So, dear colleagues, I'm betting on the 2095a rating vote. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please participate in the 2095d rating vote, supporting our ATO soldiers. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:53:09]] For 216 Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Dear colleagues, ready to make a decision? Yes. Please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on Employment of the Population on additional guarantees to promote the employment of participants in hostilities who have participated directly in the anti-terrorist operation to ensure that it is carried out. The proposal of the committee is based on the bill as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we vote, we support the ATO soldiers. [[10:54:59]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed. No one will stop the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question is very important, and I ask everyone to stay put. The following is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We've already taken an important step in that direction by voting here once. The forces of special operations are those units that were very important to us at the beginning of our fighting. Dear colleagues, today we need to put off any policy, we need to continue the reform of the Ukrainian army together, modernize it, so that it can give back to the Ottoman, Moscow invaders. And I think these bills will show who's in the hall. And I, honourable colleagues, would like to vote for the inclusion in the agenda and for the adoption of draft Law 4795. 4795, special operations force. Please vote, please support your colleagues. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Force of special operation, reform of the Ukrainian army. [[10:56:25]] For 222 It's a day-to-day inclusion. Be more careful, boys. Please be more careful, dear colleagues. Mrs. Oksano. I'm gonna do it again. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be more careful when voting. I say again, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the force of special operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (4795). Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the decision-making process please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting 4795. We're voting on our colleagues. [[10:57:26]] For 247 Decision taken. We're about to move on to his support. Colleagues, the next thing I'm going to remind you is 4255 -- a well-known amnesty bill in the 16th year. It's about the amnesty of our military officers who went to the front, sometimes without documents. Our venues, whose documents were burned in the unions, and they didn't have enough documents on the front to register. To prevent their persecution, we must accept this law. We need to support, not demagogies, populism, but our boys, who are being investigated by law enforcement agencies today. Colleagues, this is again a question-test for everyone here. And please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making (4255), the draft Amnesty Act in the 16th year of our volunteers. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Colleagues, please vote 4255. [[10:58:42]] For 242 Colleagues, let's move on to the drafts. And for the first of the 4795 Bills, I invite you. First, I ask them to be considered by a reduced procedure. 4595, who supports the simplified procedure, please vote. 4795, please. Excuse me, now. Guys, I'm sorry. 4723, mentioned by Trelyakov. Colleagues, to provide the ATO Ministry – 4723. And I ask you to support in the same chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Dear colleagues, 4723 in favour, please vote. Please, 4723. Please vote, colleagues, please. [[10:59:46]] For 222 We didn't make it. Colleagues, I know you haven't made it, and I'm asking you to mobilize. My colleagues, I'm taking another shot and I'm asking you to mobilize. Explain, in fact, the importance of this Law 4723. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote 4723, please. [[11:00:25]] For 256 Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Alexander. And let's get to the bottom of this. Let's go very briefly and mobilely, society. Okay? So the first 4795 is the Special Operations Force. I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:00:57]] For 203 Decision taken. Please invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, head of the subcommittee, Friz Irina Vasilovna. Mrs. Irina, please report. Colleagues, I ask that the ATO-related issues be expressed as concisely as possible. Mrs. Irina, please. Why, they don't release an ATO report, do they? Who's so brave that he wants to block the creation of the Special Operations Force? You, Mr. Derevyanko? No, it's not. Thank you. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, in connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 April 2016 of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Defence Laws, which created a new type of army in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, special operations force and positions of command of the special forces, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the General Staff, has developed a bill aimed at regulating the legal status, grounds and modalities of application of the special forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces alone or interacting with other types of the Armed Forces. The purpose of the bill is to determine the legal status and use the special operations force, both independently and in dealing with other flaws of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The successful conduct of military, economic and other measures to prevent and contain military conflict, to facilitate the execution of tasks by military groups in anti-terrorist operations. The bill proposes to amend the eight existing laws of Ukraine relating to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and Defence, the fight against terrorism, the Ukrainian intelligence agencies, the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States, the interaction with military and civilian administrations, social and legal protection, military personnel and members of their families. The bill was drafted according to NATO standards. A working group that worked with him on a committee that was involved in the development of the task force commanders, the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence and the representation of NATO. It also fully meets the tasks contained in the Presidential Decree on the approval of Ukraine-NATO's annual national cooperation programme for 2015 as well as the Strategic Defence Bulletin. The project is fully supported by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the General Staff and NATO representation. I want to point out that our working group agrees with two comments made by the Self-Help faction during the drafting of the bill. I'm asking Taras Shepherd of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u17	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u18	Under the stenogram to sound these observations, which are completely accepted by us. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take an understanding position and to vote in favour of this bill, because it is our duty to our military personnel, and we must carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. I'll give it to you. Two for, two against, please. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich gives the word to Taras the Shepherd. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u20	The Self-Help faction supports this bill. And, indeed, today the Force of Special Operations needs to provide a legislative field to carry out its tasks, in order to actually restore these lost territories in which the occupying forces are present today. However, we ask for a bill -- and we will be ready to support it both in the first reading and in general -- a few warnings. First. Because they could be brought between the first and the second readings, but given the need, we are willing to support them if these warnings are accepted. This is about defense, making changes to the Defence Act, making changes to articles 13, 14 and 15. What does that mean? We are obliged by VCA, ordinary administrations, and local authorities to cooperate with the Special Operations Force. But we all have to understand very well that the Force of Special Operations is the people who live by legend, they shouldn't be dismembering themselves at all. And that's to some extent a nonsensus that we're writing here in this law. The second question. We're amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Law Enforcement Officers and Judges. And we're also writing down the fact that the special forces, the military personnel, also need state protection. Well, it's also to some extent nonsensical, it's sort of a secretion, and it's the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces in a way that's not worth protecting. And the third question is the use of weapons in peacetime. That is, the legislation clearly states when the Armed Forces can use weapons in peacetime. So separately prescribe for the special forces, we don't think it's necessary either. I think the author supports this initiative and we are ready to support it. So these changes, they can then be edited. If necessary, I can dictate what articles and what laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u21	We can edit it, I agree. The only thing we're doing is taking it as a basis? In general, with the amendments of the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u22	We're ready in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u23	Okay, I get it. Let's do another one. Brigadier Alexander, please. Brigadier Alexander, turn on the microphone, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the Special Forces have come up with an answer to the type of war we have to wage today. While there was no hybrid war, there might have been no need for such a force. Today, these forces are very important, and the fact that we don't have enough legislative framework for its functioning is a big problem. So I urge you all to vote in favour of this law and to support the work of our Special Operations Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. We can't let political speculation stop us from reforming the Ukrainian army. In a minute, there will be a vote, and I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. Dear colleagues, ready to make a decision? Ready. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (number 4795), as amended by Taras Pasteuch for the transcript, with editorial rights that take into account the proposals he has made, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. We'll support the ATO warriors. Please vote. We're voting on our colleagues. [[11:09:13]] For 249 250 for it, the decision is made. I welcome the committee, and welcome Irina Vasilovna to the adoption of the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] 249, excuse me. I had 250, someone pulled a card. 249 for. The decision was adopted and the law was adopted. We're moving on to the next law of the day. This is 4255 -- draft of the Amnesty Law. Anyone who supports its consideration under a reduced procedure, please vote. 4255 – summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:10:01]] For 196 196 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew. I'm sorry, colleagues, this is about protecting our volunteers. So they don't get arrested. Can we do the best we can in that regard, colleagues? The chairman of the committee is now. This will be a personal responsibility for breaking this law! I'm asking you to let the committee head into the rostrum. I ask very much for the Protection of Volunteers Act to let the committee head to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again: this bill will help bring out hundreds of Ukrainian Midian Volunteers who have gone to the front of the crime scene. Let's ask our colleagues to support our volunteers with applause to let the committee head go. Colleagues, we'll ask you to let me through. [[Applause]] Andrew, Mr. Andrey, I'm sure people are supporting volunteers, and you're about to be missed. Please miss Mr. Andrey. Ready, Mr. Andrew? Andrew Anatolyovich, out of place, right? Okay, turn on Andrew Anatolyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the bill that Mr Janukovic has not passed in four years is the Amnesty Act. Unfortunately, we didn't accept it in 15 and 14 years. Today, a committee with the authority of all national deputies prepared the bill. Moreover, the main purpose of this bill is to really help ensure that those ATO soldiers and those involved in the anti-terrorist operation who have not committed serious crimes and are particularly serious against human health are amnesty today. That's the first one. The other one. Regrettably, among those who are now sitting in this room on the floor are also people who have been very strongly and passionate about this amnesty being adopted at the end of the day. Moreover, 28 leaders of the battalions who also sit there on this floor, on this floor, signed under a letter to the committee head for the bill to be considered today. Those battalion commanders who have protected the country that first struck the enemy and who, unfortunately, are today trying to blame many for what they did not do. That's two. And the third. We have with you those who are behind Mr. Paris today, officer's honor, and we know what officers are. And we know that really going around, going in or out, going out, going out, getting ready I'm not going to, there's one way to get to this rostrum, I'm going to go just this way. That's three. And fourthly, I want to ask colleagues who wear military uniforms to remember that when they start insulting political opponents, their bosses, their political opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u27	Please finish, 30 seconds, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u28	That their bosses, political opponents in their time, as clowns, shouted, "Juliet, Juliet!'with saliva on their lips, then they fought for her release, then they took this brand, because every fifth one. 1 out of 5 people in the People's Front faction is from the Fatherland, and after they're afraid, they're shaking their knees to get out of this rostrum and say what they're forcing officers is a disgrace. I feel sorry for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I ask you to record two for two for one, two against one, please. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want absolutely and undeniably to support the head of the Andriy Anatolyovich Cosemyakin committee in all that he has pointed out. I really think that this bill needs to be adopted. The only thing that probably takes him in a situation like this right now is a huge disgrace. That's the first one. And secondly, the inclusion of this bill right now in the agenda, let's face it, is an open manipulation. I understand that the issue of amnesty is very important. But those people who are now blocking the rostrum need to understand that tariff cuts, wage and pension index requirements are not the requirements of Fatherland and the Radical Party and People Control and Freedom and others are the requirements of the entire Ukrainian people. Unlike those guys in the uniforms who took up the rostrum today, giving Putin a picture of a military junta in Ukraine. Putin giving a picture. These people yesterday, these people didn't go out to the people who came in yesterday, tens of thousands of people, and they demanded a reduction in tariffs, an increase in wages and pensions. So today, what happens in this way by the adoption of a normal and proper law, I think, is a complete disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u31	Romanova Anna Anatolyevna gives the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u32	Self-help will vote for this decision, this is a step forward. But asking the entire Parliament to realize that this is not a good step. First of all, it's only about certain types of crime. Secondly, the law will not help those people who are currently under investigation. Now there are a lot of people who have been protecting this state in the investigative isolations of this state. And we need special efforts to help them. According to the Idar battalion veteran, who you know was released by the Court of Appeal on the weekends, 76 of his battalion brothers are now behind bars. Therefore, it is vital that we make a decision that will help them. The great problem is not legitimacy, not the legality of the formal actions of volunteers, volunteers who protected Ukraine in the first months when the volunteer battalions themselves were not created legally. From the point of view of the law, they are generally regarded as organized criminal groups that illegally used weapons, illegally arrested, detained people. We need to create special legislation to remedy this problem. And another very important thing. The Attorney General of the ATO Zone is now charged with illegal enrichment by the Anti-Corruption Bureau. It's a big signal that a lot of things can be falsified, can be done in poor quality, for money. Therefore, as a parliament, we need to take under parliamentary control all the affairs of the people who protected this state and found themselves in the prisons of that State. And this law needs to be voted down as a step forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dudenkov Alexander. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I would like to dispel some of the myths that are now hailing in this room about this bill and the blockade. Here's the phrase here that the demand for tariff cuts is not only the demand of the Radical Party and the Fatherland, but the demand of the entire Ukrainian people. It is very good to take responsibility now after you have signed the tariff-up coalition after having authorized Gontareva, Prashenko, Yatsenuk, Jaresko to negotiate with the IMF, where there has also been a step-by-step increase in tariffs. It is important to be honest, perhaps, until the end, by signing and voting the entire package of IMF documents that opened the door, the way to raise tariffs, that you are now jumping and saying that is the demand of the Ukrainian people. It's everyone's responsibility. As far as the bill is concerned. Well, dear colleagues, I don't know what you're going to vote for. You will now vote for lawlessness and lawlessness. Now you're talking about law enforcement officials holding certain, there being patriotic forces to justice. Are we living in a state of law or are we talking about patriots not patriots? If you're a patriot, you can rob, rape, kill and pass the law on release from criminal liability. That's what's happening right now. I can't understand how some categories of people who are supposed to have formal violations, as Mr. Representative of Self-Help has said, must be addressed accordingly. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u35	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich is invited to attend. Mr. Yuri Timoshenko, I'm asking you to step out of there. Mr. Yuri. Please, Palamarczuk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Kishkar the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u37	Jura Timoshenko, please take your place, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Yuri! Is that good to hear? Mr. Yuri Timoshenko! I'm asking you to take your place. Mr. Yuri, please go to your sector. Thank you. So, Palamarczuk. Passing the word to whom? Kishkar, please. Kishkar, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u38	Thank you for your word. First, I fully support Jehora Sobolev, that this is only a partial solution to the question. In fact, this law exempts those who are already condemned, who have a judgment. It's a very small category of people, but it's limited in the categories of bad and moderate crime. So the next step is the line below the line that is now taking place in the law enforcement system, drawing on the responsibility of people who have sacrificed themselves, sacrificed their lives, going to protect their homeland. There must be a special law to relieve them of their responsibility. Again, it is not the punishment that is taking place, but the discharge from responsibility. Because the first reason people went to the front was because they were impotent B.S.A., they were impotent law enforcement agencies, they were impotent prosecutors, they were institutions that had to work early in the 14th year and they didn't allow military conflict. And now we're saying that we have to go after every soldier we have and fire him because he hit someone in the teeth. Gave or took a car to carry out combat tasks. It can't be like that. The primary cause is the irresponsibility of those law enforcement agencies that have allowed it at all. So thank you all for supporting this law, which must be voted on. And we need to adopt separate legislation on discharge from the responsibility of the participants in hostilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u39	Please, from the People's Front, one minute from Yemen. Leonid Jemetz. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u40	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians who open the Internet every morning and see how many of our boys died there today, protecting our borders from the Russian-terrorist invasion. So, please take a look at the Party of Regions. They don't care that our boys die there today and they don't care that the Russians want to take over the Ukrainian land. They'd be happy to sell Putin to all of Ukraine. Look at their position and remember that position! And the law should be passed, because these are our guys who are protecting our peace here in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall, factions to invite them to the Hall. And Melniczuk is one minute until the MPs come in. Sergey Melniczuk. Please turn on the microphone for one minute. Let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u42	Respectable citizens of Ukraine and honourable deputies! This law is impeccable, but you don't have to mention one of the battalion fighters who was released (temporarily, hopefully) from arrest. The man who planted his fighters and those 76 or 4 fighters sit behind his slander. And so many times ago, those who actually did the task, and they could have used it, and during the fighting, they could have taken something -- a car or something -- that's one thing. And when there were looting in peaceful territories, people were imprisoned. Why were they not handed over to the security, the police, and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. During the discussion there were allegations of manipulativeness, and I would like to point out that this law has been publicly announced for two weeks now by many deputies, including Attorney General Lucenko. It's a two-pronged law that's been discussed for a long time. And I want to remind you, and Mr. Paul, let me tell you, really, when the law enforcement system didn't work, when Yanukovic destroyed the entire law enforcement system, there were fighters from Majdan and those present in the hall on the front that was going under the Slavonian. And so I ask you to uphold this law. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Mr. Andrew, I'm asking you to clarify your position on the basis or on the whole? Skinwash for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u44	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I want to read this article again for everyone, number 2, which is currently being discussed in public among not only ATO veterans, politicians, prosecutors, everyone. Release individuals who have been deprived of their liberty, sovereignty and territorial integrity in Ukraine, have been directly involved in the anti-terrorist operation, secured and carried out, while in areas of the anti-terrorist operation, rather than in the rear, in the course of which they have been granted the status of “Participant of hostilities”, accused, convicted and committed crimes that are not particularly serious crimes against the life and health of the person and are not actions envisaged in part two, third and fourth articles of article 408, 410, part two of article 411 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Period, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u45	In general, Mr. Andrew?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u46	I think we can vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Amnesty Act 2016 number 4255 as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote, colleagues, 4255. [[11:28:21]] For 247 247 for. Yes, with the correction of Cosemiakin and the editorial law that was given to Cosmetics under the transcript, the draft Law 4255 is adopted. Greetings, dear fellows. And I'm sure thousands of our volunteers are applauding us today, our decision. Thank you. And the following bill, which Alexander Tretlyakov spoke about, 4723: draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for the expenditure of the Ministry on temporary occupations and internally displaced persons). Whoever supports its consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. 4723 - short procedure. Please vote. [[11:29:17]] For 190 190 for. Decision taken. I'd like to introduce you. Is there a Minister Blackish Vadim Olegovich? Black Vadim Olegovich, may I have your word? You want to get out of here, you can do it here. From the place, from the place, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u48	By decree of 20.04 in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine In 2016, the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons was established through the restructuring of the State Agency for the Reconstruction of the Danube River and the State Service for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The bill, within the limits of the funds envisaged for the maintenance of the executive branch, proposes to define the Ministry as the chief budget officer in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016, including in Appendix No. 3, to provide for the maintenance of the Ministry with a new budget programme of 10 million, as well as to exclude expenditure of 10 million, i.e. the same amount of $196 000, to support the two previous organs that are being restructured. The implementation of the project does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. And this will enable us to start the new ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u49	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budgets, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Gorbunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u50	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The budget committee at its meeting on June 15 discussed the government bill number 4723. The bill proposes to set budgetary allocations for the newly created Ministry of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons in the amount of 10.2 million dollars for the cancellation of budgetary assignments to the State Agency for Restoration of Donbas and the State Service for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, which are being restructured. In other words, the legislative proposal does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources, as it is proposed that budgetary allocations be made within the budget provided for in the State budget for the functions of executive bodies. So the bill is balanced in terms of government budget expenditure. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council bill number 4723 to accept as a basis and as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals in the letter of the Committee's conclusion to the bill. The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is responsible for drafting the 4723 bill when it is adopted, with the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u51	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u53	The Opposition Block faction will support the bill. Because it is true that the Ministry has not been funded by the ATO, as some have said about the temporarily occupied territories and the issue of Donbass. It should be noted that, when the Ministry was established, the faction of the Opposition Block initially insisted on the establishment of the Donbass Committee, but unfortunately, we are not being heard as opposition forces. We hope that the reform that has been initiated, which was led by Pat Cox, on the basis of the Committee's number of ministries, will nevertheless lead to the establishment of this committee, as the issues have accumulated very much. In addition to the ATO, we have internally displaced persons, affected civilians who also need help. Unfortunately, these issues are very few addressed in this plenary meeting room. We have voted in favour of this bill with confidence that the leadership of the Supreme Council is still listening to the arguments that we have put forward earlier, to the establishment of committees and to the further consideration of the draft law on the problems of internally displaced persons and affected civilians in Donetsk and Luhansk areas as a result of this conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u54	Thank you very much. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Efimov Maxim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we've had the Donbass recovery agency for several years and we finally have the Ministry. I believe that this ministry must work effectively today, of course it must be funded. Let us wish the Minister good luck and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u56	Thank you very much. The discussion is concluded under the bill. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote, your honorary colleagues. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputies that there will be a vote now, and please invite all deputies to the Chamber. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for the expenditure of the Ministry on temporary occupied territories and internally displaced persons) (number 4723) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[11:37:46]] For 272 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Welcome to the drafters of the law, welcome to the committee. Dear colleagues, an offer has been made for us to work without interruption from 12 to 12.30. Is she in the room? Let's vote it out, colleagues. Dear colleagues who support the proposal: work without interruption, please vote. Please support, Your Honor, the offer: work without interruption. Please vote, please support, please. [[11:38:29]] For 199 Is it not all of them, or is there some political position? Can I put it again? All right, guys, let's do it again. Please take up jobs. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to work without interruption from 12 to 12.30 so that we can work on the laws for these half-hours. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:39:13]] For 206 Well, here's the principle position, I see we can't cross here. Okay. Colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is 4323 -- the draft Ordinance on the Liberation of Members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. This is a bill that allows the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine to unlock the work that will enable Ukraine to recalculate the funds into the budget. These are the whole two bills. And I suggest we look at it in a simplified way. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, 4323 is a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:40:09]] For 203 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, please. First order, please, Doubenko. Turn on the microphone. Doubenko will be speaking from the committee. Please turn on the Doubenko microphone. Please report. From the rostrum, please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council appoints and relieves half of the membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine through the adoption of the relevant decision. As of April 1, 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, whose terms of office have been considered suspended in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the section "Towards" and "Transitional Positions" of the Act "To Amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the development of the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine" since June 18, 2015. In the light of what has been said, the Supreme Council has to adopt a decree on the release of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, namely: Bilanenka Aleksandra Georgievovich, Bukovinski Stanislav Albinović, Kandibku Olga Mihailnovna, Kovalčuk Trohim Tihonović, Lomaković Vitalija Afanasijovich, Lutoy Igor Aleksijovich. Also, to terminate the mandate and release Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich from office as a member of the Board of the National Bank in connection with the end of his term of office. Please put decision No. 4323 to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Evlakhov Anatoly Sergiyyovich, "Block of Peter Dustenka". It's off the record. Lavrick is from Self-Help. And I ask the MPs to come into the hall, through. Yeah, there's gonna be a vote in five minutes. Please, Oleg Lavric Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u59	Oleg Lavrick, Self-help. We were all present six months ago to vote in three readings of Law 1588 on monetary lenders. And then and to this day, we don't have a clear position of the National Bank by one of the most painful problems for people, for those who would ever take these currency loans. And the mandate of the National Bank Board is to define the basis of the country's monetary policy. We can't work in conditions where the country's primary function, which is the National Bank Board, is not being performed. So the Self-Help faction will definitely support this decision and vote on the next decision on the adoption of the new members of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u60	Please, Sergey Vlasenko. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, what are we doing with you? In fact, according to article 9 before the approval of the National Bank Board, the approval of the principles of monetary policy is based on the principles of monetary policy. People, in three years of this National Bank, the dollar has fallen more than anywhere in the world. And we don't even want to hear those new members of the National Bank Board that we're about to approve. So you have to ask them, I mean not this decision, but the next one, this one has to be voted for. But the next decision is to invite them to the hall, to demand their vision of monetary policy, as they see the maintenance of the national currency rate, as they see the problems that the self-help colleague has been talking about, and so on and so forth. We cannot offer such a thing as the formation of the National Bank Board, which is responsible for basic things in the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u62	Thank you very much, colleagues. So we're done discussing this issue. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Everyone agrees, everyone backs the decision. I'm asking you to just vote responsibly. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the release of members of the National Bank of Ukraine No.4323 on the release of members of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote please. An important question. [[11:46:19]] For 239. Decision taken. It's been decided. Welcome, colleagues. So do we. This opens the way for us to move on to the next 4324. Draft Decision on Appointment of Members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine And I'm asking my colleagues to support the rapporteur's proposal that we consider a reduced procedure. Who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure please vote on the 4324 members of the Board of the National Bank, the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:47:05]] For 202 Decision taken. And I'm asking the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to turn on Mr. Doubenko's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10 of the National Bank Act, are invited to appoint members of the Council of the National Bank of Paschavera Alexander Josephovich for a term of 7 years, the Rebénik Natalija Ivanovna for a term of 6 years, Milovanova Timothy Sergiyovich for a term of 5 years, and Kozuk Viktor Valeriovich for a term of 4 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Oleg Berezuk faction Self-help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u65	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Regrettably, the work of the National Bank of Ukraine over the course of two years has shown that this institution, which is to be protected, in defence of the stability of Ukrainian money, has shown everything the other way around. She conducted completely cabled, totally unclear, opaque procedures: some banks that robbed Ukraine were saved, stole money, and fled to offshore, while others today endure the cable instructions of the National Bank of Ukraine. Sadly, this has led to the impoverishment of people. And today, people who are waiting for our quality decisions say what to do with poverty, how to survive a pensioner who gets 950 dollars or 949 dollars of pension, to endure, he chooses between food and medicine. Some retirees say that we do not know what to choose because we die either without drugs or without food and enjoy being healthy. So today we need to change the council to oversee the National Bank. We propose to the council a highly professional person named Timothy Milovanov, who is principled, from a community environment, a highly professional person, with foreign and Ukrainian education. We hope that it will be in principle and will allow for strict control of the country's National Bank in its service to stabilize Ukraine's currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u66	Thank you very much. Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain to many others what the National Bank Board is. This is exactly the kind of supervisory body that can analyze, modify, supplement, audit the work of the National Bank. Without such an organ, the National Bank may not be fully operational; we can now have a great deal of our subjective approaches and conclusions that the National Bank is working properly or wrongly. This is the task of the Supervisory Board, this function of the Supervisory Board of Governors of the Bank will be the body that controls the work, including the administration of the National Bank. Another function of the National Bank Board is the approval of the report and the distribution of income in the previous year, and this is very important. We need to distribute the profits and send it to the budget of Ukraine, so the sooner we take the council, it will make the first session, the sooner we'll get the money to the national budget. I ask you to support the proposed members and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I just want to repeat my thesis, first of all, I want to agree with what the head of the Self-Help faction has said that the situation of what the National Bank has been doing for the last 2.5 years is critical. Will it help? And I agree with what the previous colleague said about changing the National Bank Board. But the problem is that the way we're doing it, as the Supreme Council is doing it now, I would say, as you're doing it now, it's absolute ignorance and it's not professionalism. To the honourable head of the Self-Help faction, I would like to remind you that we already had an outstanding minister of finance with a foreign education who introduced a pension tax that taxed everything we could, we already have an excellent head of the National Bank with Ukrainian and foreign education. I think that in solving the question that's inherent to the state, the question of how to form the National Bank Board. We need to invite every candidate here to hear how they see these basics of monetary policy, look into their eyes, listen to their professional, professional opinion on this issue, and agree with it, or disagree with it. And we've been bumped again by some people, we don't know who, we don't know, we don't know where. And once again, we vote for them, and then everyone will shout again that the National Bank is acting unprofessionally, that the National Bank is not performing its primary constitutional function, namely, preserving the stability of the Ukrainian currency. And once again, people will stand under the Supreme Council and ask us all how we voted on it. So I have a huge request to everyone, and I'm addressing everyone. Take a close look at who is voting for this decision now and then ask them why the dollar is growing, why your wealth is shrinking, and why you are impoverished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u70	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has just voted in favour of Decree 4323, by which we have released seven members to the National Bank, namely by their names: Bilanenka, Bukovinsky, Kandibka, Kovalczuk, Lomaković, Lutogo and Poluniev. It's consistent with this one. That draft regulation 4324, which is issued, is the appointment of four new members of the National Bank Board, because I have just heard a name that is not in the decision, and I want to get your attention. This is about Arjewitin, Szczerbakova, Milovanov, and Richakovsky. So if the chairman confirms that it's just us who appoint these four board members, we're going to have to vote because we've just released the board members and leave the National Bank in general without the National Bank's board. And we're forced and we've made decisions. The opposition bloc will be forced, our faction, to vote in favour of the appointment of these members to the National Bank, whatever they may be. But the point was right, because it's a very important question for the future that we assign people to such high positions after we've heard their position: what they are planning to do in general about the stability of our monetary unit, about securing the inflation rate that we have in our State budget, and so that we have real inflation that does not go beyond what we have in our budget; that in our credit policy; that the availability of credit to our enterprises, institutions and organizations is a huge problem so that our citizens know how the currency loan problem will be solved is a huge problem that remains. That's why the Opposition Block made a decision: we're going to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u72	Thank you very much. I really want to emphasize that, according to the law. I'll give you my word. According to Law 4 - President, 4 - Supreme Council. We're charging our quota, four men. And now from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please. It'll be a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the democratic factions and Self-Help, I'm drawing your attention. Parliament, hear me. The great shrug that is now taking place, using Andrew Volodymyrovich, your ignorance. According to part two of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, candidates for appointment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine are being discussed. at a special open meeting of the Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee, which makes its recommendations to the Supreme Council. Next. Andrew Volodymyrovich, let me finish. Next, the submission to the Supreme Council of the Committee on Finance and Banking since 28 March, where, as a result of the competition, the candidates Arzvetina, Szczerbakova, Milovanova, Ricakovsky had just announced three other candidates that had not been discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u74	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u75	One minute, from the faction of the performance. So I'm not saying that there are no candidates for the National Bank Board. Despite the requirements of the National Bank Act, you propose to appoint people who have not been discussed on a committee that no one has seen, which is the result of a conspiracy at the Presidential Administration. I appeal to the Head of Parliament to remove this issue from consideration. I'm not asking anyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u76	And the closing word, colleagues. In two minutes. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking the people. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word, Oleg. What an emotion. But I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the committee. Who will speak from the committee? Please turn on the microphone. Please, Rizanenko. Rizanenko, later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u77	Good afternoon! National MP Rizanenko, member of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking I would like to point out that not four candidatures were discussed at the open meeting of the committee, but more than 15 candidates seemed to have been discussed. And all the names spoken today in the hall were discussed on the committee. And I want to remind my colleagues that because the Nazbank Council doesn't work, its work is blocked. It's not an organ like the CEC, that until new ones are appointed, the old ones continue to be authorized. No, it's not. In this regard, we cannot even confirm the National Bank’s report and adjust the funds to its budget of 38 billion dollars. I repeat. All candidatures were discussed at a committee meeting, openly and aloud. And the other factions were there, too, and had the opportunity to discuss these candidatures, to ask all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, this is the final lineup of the Beresuk. And we vote, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Replica is Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u79	Andrew Volodymyrovich! Andrew Volodymyrovich! Mr. Head! The point is that there is now absolute lies, manipulation and crime, because the committee has made a completely different decision. There are different names in the hall today. We have no right to vote like that. We propose to vote in favour of the ruling voted by the committee and to appoint a very important Supervisory Board of the National Bank, because today this council is needed for the functioning and, in large account, for the survival of the Ukrainian institutional state and its people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Appointment of Members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine (4324) as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u81	The chairman of the committee asks for the floor! What are you doing?Oh, my God! You're a whore! Give your word to the committee head! Why aren't you ashamed?Oh, my God! Yanukovich didn't do what you did. You're breaking the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u82	Who supports this proposal: 4324 – on the basis and in general – please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:01:09]] For 211 211 for. Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it while we're at it. One minute to the committee head. As long as the deputies return, one minute to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u83	Give me your word!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u84	I'm giving One minute to the head of the committee, one minute. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Please, the head of the Committee on Fisheries, Sergey Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we have indeed, at an open meeting of our committee, where we have invited all journalists, the press, held a large competition, and selected four people, namely: Arzhvitina, Szczerbakov, Milovanov and Račivska. There is a decision of the committee, which was filed and registered in the Supreme Council in March. What has been voiced today is people who haven't passed, and according to the committee's decision, they're completely different people, they're the floor, they're actually the floor, and that's the conspiracy, what's going on today. I therefore do not propose, but I demand that this issue be removed today, because it is those who have not taken part in the discussion and the Committee has made completely different decisions. It's a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u86	Thank you, colleagues. I'll put you back on the vote. If there's the political will of the hall, we'll move on. So whoever supports the proposal to support 4,324 return to its consideration, who supports such a proposal, please vote, return to 4324, please. [[12:02:59]] For 209 There's not enough votes to return, dear colleagues. We have entered into a discussion that needs to be investigated and clarified. Now, according to the Rules, there is a 30 - minute break. And I announce a recess at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 12:30. At 12:30, we continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. I would like to inform you that, according to the previous bill, 4324, there was a report from the committee and a report from the committee's representative, from the committee's head, giving a variety of information. I just had a meeting with the factions' heads and called. I understand all the importance of this question, I understand the great weight of it, the question. There'll be a committee decision, there'll be a hearing in the Supreme Council. And, dear colleagues, with the full sense of the importance of this issue, the committee is to meet, and this misunderstanding that has taken place in the hall must be eliminated. The committee must have gone out with one, not with two positions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall, take your seats, please. I'm asking my respectable colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? The next law in the agenda that we're considering is, by the way, I want to let you know when the committee agrees on the bank issue, we'll come back, and I'll put the vote back to that decision. This is a decision of great importance, as my colleagues have pointed out. We have freed the members of the National Bank, we have to choose them. I ask the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to agree to submit to the Board of the National Bank. I am very much asking you to reconcile the conflicting positions that have been heard in the hall, and I ask you to leave with one decision of a committee. Now we're looking at the following, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act (for technical clarification of certain provisions), this is 4370 and 4370-1. Dear colleagues, there are suggestions from the authors that we should consider a reduced procedure. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote now and vote on the motion for a reduced procedure. I ask my fellow MPs to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies in the hall as well. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote. So I'm going to put a motion for a reduced procedure to the vote. And I hope so. Where are the people? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm voting on a proposal, I'm considering a reduced procedure of 4370 and 4370-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:41:57]] For 112 I can see they're not all there. I'll do it again. If there are no votes, we'll go in full procedure, colleagues. I ask you to come to the workplace and prepare for the vote. So once again, I'm voting on the motion to review the reduced procedure. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your seats. If there aren't any votes, we're going to go through with it. Therefore, colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure are asked to vote. Please vote. [[12:44:37]] For 158. 158 for. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. And Scrum, first Alona Ivanovna. Turn on the microphone or on the rostrum, please. Alona's, and then Gerasim's, I apologize, then Gerasim's. Please, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u88	Alona's Scrum faction "The Fatherland." My colleagues, you know I'm very sad about what's going on right now. Well, first of all, there's no committee submission for these bills. Secondly, the committee did not take a decision on my bill, but made a decision on the alternative and, for some reason, alternative Mr. Arthur Gerasimov was the first. But I'm going to say essentially and I'm going to ask you to give me time because it's a very, very important question. Colleagues, you know, for two years, almost all of us in this room, with civil society, with international experts, are struggling with all the progressive efforts to reform the public service. And then tomorrow, the formation of a commission from the State Service Corps, which, after an independent competition, is about to take out government officials. Today, the entire reform of this bill by Mr. Arthur Gerasimov (4370-1) is being destroyed. We haven't even made a commission yet. Reform is breaking down today. Today, Mr. Arthur Gerasimov is proposing a bill that is not even an alternative. Because he has a three-page bill, and we have a bill that's been drafted by a committee of thirty that settles all other important issues for the public service. He proposes to lower the heads of the RDA, i.e. the RDA, and the heads of the ODA, i.e. the government, in category B, allowing them to be politicians, allowing them to be members of political parties, allowing them to go to elections and appoint them to be elected President of Ukraine on a commission with the President of Ukraine. The Constitution says the President is in charge of the surrender of Kabmin. The surrender of Kabmin will only be symbolic because the commission of the President of Ukraine will be made up of two-thirds of the President's representatives and one-third of the Kabmin representatives, colleagues, think about it. And then assigning the President will be those he seems to take for his open sort of competition. First of all, it's not constitutional. Secondly, the Council of Europe has already said that this is an unconstitutional usurpation of power, and this should be given to the Venice Commission. Thirdly, SIGMA thinks it's a violation of Peter Dustenk's constitutional authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u89	Please finish one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u90	Colleagues, what's going on right now is going beyond what Mr. Janukovic even did. I'm personally impressed by the depth of what the President's Administration is doing right now, substituting you all. Mr. Kowalczuk and Mr. Dusty are not here, you're here, don't vote for it, and don't take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u91	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! The adoption of the Ukrainian State Service Act has become our real mutual victory and a major step towards bringing Ukraine's public service closer to European standards. And given that Ukraine's new state service is in the process of being established, and also in the context of the practical implementation of the Ukrainian State Service Act, the legislative act that I propose, more specifically, the State Service Act needs to be improved, in particular by bringing it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I fully support the State Service Act, but there are problems that apply to both district and district government administrations. The efficiency of the work of district and district government administrations today is a matter of national security, no less. And I can tell you that when I started working on this law, we had more than 40 district administrators without heads, and that figure had grown to over 60. I want to tell you that we don't have the head of the district government in the Volnovsky region, we're starting to have the mistrust that the councils in the eastern part of the country are expressing to the heads of the district government. So far, it has come to pass that the heads of district and district government should be elected for the competition run by the Higher Qualifications Commission on the State Service Corps. But the question is that this commission will only be created, and then it will start doing its first task, which concerns the central authorities of the executive branch. And, for God's sake, by December, by January of next year, she had reached the heads of district and district government. And we don't even have a few managers in district administrations. So I want to focus your attention on the fact that Bill 4370-1 refers to this issue that really needs to be addressed. I also want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u93	Please finish for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u94	I also want to tell you that the Constitution has not been changed, as it is written, we do not touch this bill of the Constitution, because we have no right to say that it is unconstitutional -- it is not true either. And I also want to tell you that when there was a first reading of the State Service Act and there was a commission with the President of Ukraine, the respected international organizations didn't make any remarks against it, they're saying that today. I would also like to ask, to make technical corrections to the text of the draft law, including in section III, paragraph 1, of the Final Positions Act, replace the words "May 1, 2015" with the words "August 1, 2016" and the words of paragraph 3 of this section with the words of paragraph 2 of this chapter. And in closing, I want to say two things. We've worked very hard on this law on the committee, and I'm really grateful to every member of the committee, and I'm grateful to the head of the committee, and I'm grateful to Alona Ivanovna Skrum, because we've put a lot of effort into this. And today, based on this work, I can tell you that at a committee meeting, the committee has reached a positive conclusion on Bill 4370-1. You can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u95	Please finish 10 seconds, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u96	You can ask any member of the committee. And so I ask all my colleagues to support Bill 4370-1 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, after the report by Vlasenko or immediately? No, I mean maybe after Vlasenek's replica or immediately a replica? Right away. Please, one minute of the line. Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u98	Thank you. You know, Mr. Herasimov, I won't thank you, because we actually worked very hard on the committee, and the committee did a very big job. We held three sessions on these two bills, we combined these two bills, we tried to do what you proposed, and we tried constitutionally. But you didn't agree to that, you didn't make any concessions, the President's Administration only accepts one unconstitutional version. You didn't let us work it out. And so, sorry, well, it's pure usurpation of power, it's unconstitutional, it's going to be exactly accused. And I don't have to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u99	The report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, two bills were discussed on the committee. The committee has considered these bills several times, with the Committee's opinions completely rigid and among the members of the committee, among the experts, and among the international community, that Bill 4370-1 is unconstitutional. In doing so, the author’s position was clearly defined, and it was depicted by Alona Ivanovna Skrum. I'm not gonna stop at this again. In fact, I think there was pressure on the committee members on this issue. Pressed by the President's Administration, Mr. Kowalczuk did this, and that's practically what everyone knows by trying to push these, totally illegal, completely unconstitutional, invalid things. Yes, indeed, today the committee voted by a majority to have this bill supported, I emphasize, only on a basis. No decisions were made in general today on the committee. Yes, this decision was supported by representatives of the BPP faction and the People's Front faction on our committee, because most of them are. The decision was voted in favour of them. Neither the Fatherland faction nor the Self-Help faction voted in favour of this decision. Of course, the hall may vote as it deems necessary. I would like to emphasize again, but once again, I would like to emphasize that the idea that 4370-1 is a completely, completely unconstitutional bill has been repeated. And there are huge threats to the usurpation of power in the hands of one person, President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. Therefore, I personally represent the position of the committee that the committee has asked to vote on the basis. I call for this bill not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich of Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Zuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u103	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. I ask the honourable fellow MPs to be very careful when voting on this matter. There are two alternative bills. One is 4370, which actually deals with individual technical, organizational issues that are necessary for the quality implementation of the Law on State Service. And there's the so-called alternative bill 4370-1. This bill, first of all, is not an alternative, because it solves, not the problems of the public service, but the problems of the President's Administration. Second, this bill is open. openly reinventive, and in fact, it aims to destroy the reform of the public service. It is most unfortunate that all of this is done under the cover of war in eastern Ukraine. I think it's cynical and hypocritical. You can't do that. So we strongly oppose this bill, and we urge all fellow MPs to vote with red buttons as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u105	Please give the floor to the national MP, Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u106	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! How many lawyers, so many points of view, but the state's point of view should be the only one. Populistic can be many, destructive can be many, but constructive to building a view can only be one. Today, I urge everyone to be consistent. You and I have introduced a unique historical reform of government, a public service, it has to be depoliticized, it has to be professional, it has to be independent and only subject to the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. But I also want to draw your attention to today's enormous threat to the artificial creation of a vacuum of power in places and in the center. Is it possible to succumb to emotion today and to distort such vital events? You can never do that because it's a crime today. People today demand protection from the state, people today demand that their rights be guaranteed. This will never happen unless a new law is fully implemented, and to that end it is necessary today to vote 4370-1, because this bill will not only depoliticize, but also fill the power vacuum. Friends, we take responsibility and we vote in favour of the pro-Ukrainian position, no one can stop us from reforming the government, people deserve it. We're voting, of course, for 4370-1, and all, and all, and the last, populistic, unconstructive actions, must remain behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u108	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I've wanted to address every MP who's capable of thinking. Look at this cynicism that's happening. Well, unless we understand the situation that a certain political power or the President's Administration wants to put all state administrations on board. We understand what they are preparing for. I understand the issue of national security. I've just returned from areas near the ATO Lugansk district. So the head of the VCA couldn't use 87 million. What does that mean? Human policy for what? Why was there a man who was to do farming in unoccupied areas? Today, colleagues, we need to be occupied, I'm also addressing civil society, the constitutional legal position. We realize that there are areas where certain assignments are needed for order. But we're talking about all of Ukraine right now, we're talking about all of the residents, and we're talking about the legal consequences. I'd like you and I to support Bill 4370, prepared by our colleague, Helena Skrum. I wish we didn't destroy those reform laws that we fought for six months ago. You remember how hard it was, you remember what we did. We were able to separate political positions from government positions. And I wouldn't want colleagues, thinkers, and those who can make the right thinking decisions so that we don't have to deal with this cynicism that we're offered. We're against usurping power, we're behind the Constitution, we're in favour of the right and the pro-Ukrainian position. 4370. 4370 Helen Schrum, please vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u110	Dear head, dear fellows! The laws that are proposed for consideration are of interest to seven hundred, perhaps a thousand people, and I think of dozens of bosses. Taking into account the turmoil that is taking place in society today, given the insurmountable so - called market tariffs, perhaps we should not consider such laws as are necessary to report that grants are being used for the purpose. Obviously, it was necessary to call here to the session room of the head of the NCRE, and to explain the basis for these tariffs. But not just in general, he said how to survive such decisions to a particular person with a minimum pension or a salary of one and a half thousand dollars. What are we doing here? This reminds me that we are looking for work and, above all, that we are finding it successfully. I realize that there's a point of view that people in the summer are going to be at odds with these tariffs, and in the fall they're going to have to accept what they've been offered as something obvious. So I'm proposing, honourable heads, honourable national MPs, let's not think that everything is going to suck, let's have a conversation in the Supreme Council so that people can see: if tariffs are marketed, there should be pensions, wages. We're talking about things that no one understands, that no one understands. And the Supreme Council, which has such little authority, will not be supported. There's some kind of power here, there's no vacuum of power, there's nothing there, there's nothing there, there's just party appointments. You divide the areas, divide the areas by party quotas, and people are completely barren and incompetent. First, we need to examine what is in place, and then we need to give some authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. I just want to emphasize that tomorrow we're going to have an hour of questions to the government, and I think we can talk professionally and qualitatively about those issues. Dear colleagues, the discussion is now over. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. Please, colleagues, come into the hall and take your seats. Now, the closing word, one more minute, Herasimov, and we're going to vote. Please, one minute, Gerasimov. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Turn on the microphone, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you all to look at this bill from the point of view that it's not a theory, it's a real life on earth. I want to remind you again, we have military action in the country. And Putin is conducting these military actions not only in eastern Ukraine and in Crimea, sorry, he's conducting these military actions in the middle of the country. And when we completely destroy this vertical of district government, you can imagine the effects that this is going to have. Moreover, I would like to point out that this is a temporary measure, because once the reform of local self-government begins, it will be a completely different system. So what we're betting on is that for the next one or two years, this system doesn't collapse. And the last. I want to remind you that it's just an example. On May 9, the majority of Ukraine’s regions went unprovoked in general. And a significant contribution was made to this, where all the meetings were held, by district government district administrations, where a force unit was being assembled, where activists were going to prevent provocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u113	Please, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u114	That's why I'm talking to all my colleagues again. There's no manipulation, there's no competitive selection. To vote for this bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u115	Please, the author of the second Alona Shkrum bill, one minute. Colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u116	Colleagues, let's separate, in general, war and military and civilian administrations from all the state administrations of Ukraine, this is not about the ATO zone. We suggested that this rule be temporary. The authors of another bill refused, the President's Administration refused to do so for a year, for two or a temporary period. It's done all the time. The president becomes the head of the executive branch of power. The President assumes more authority over the appointment and selection of the heads of the RDA and the ODA than he had before the implementation of the Law on State Service. The basic principle of the law was to prohibit public officials from being politicians and not be influenced by politicians. Here they become politicians again, they become members of political parties again, they submit directly to the President of Ukraine. Colleagues! I very much believe in this Supreme Council. And I believe that the Supreme Council is unable to do what has not been done in all the years of independence of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. And we're going to vote on the two bills that are in the agenda. The first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service No. 4370. Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. 4370 by Schrum. Who supports 4370, please vote. Please vote. [[13:06:42]] For 112 The decision is not made. The next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service (4370-1). Please vote. Supporters, please vote, colleagues. [[13:07:12]] For 227 227 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, now. Attention! I was approached by five factions of Parliament, 2706 requiring a colleague. Is this really a total of 2706? Colleagues, 2706. There is a requirement of four factions that I put it in the order of the day. Now we have a few drafts asking us to put in order of the day. Among them, 2706 is the draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Heat, Central Water and Water Management Entities. If the factions who offered it give us votes, we'll look at it. I'll make an offer. I'll make an appointment. As well as a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of the State's revenue collection of unwarranted assets and assets, the owner of which is not established (4890). If there's a position, let's put it in, let's see. Two bills are included in the agenda of the day’s session and the decision - making process, a colleague. I can. Now, everybody, let's settle down. These are the demands of two factions. One to 2706, on the Conciliation Board it was mentioned by almost all factions, the next to 4890, and I will put it into the agenda for decision making first. Is it accepted? Colleagues, let me put it first. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making bill of the Law on Measures aimed at ensuring the continued operation of heating, centralized water supply and water supply operators (2706) please vote. 2706 is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please. Please vote. [[13:09:24]] For 268. 268, there is the will of the hall, we will consider. Next, 4890: draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the specificity of the revenue of the State of Unwarranted Assets. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Please vote 4890. Vote. [[13:09:57]] For 172 172 for. The decision is not made. So let's move on to 2706. 2706, there's a request for us to consider it under the brief procedure of a colleague. Anyone who supports the review of the 2706 short procedure, please vote. 2706 summary procedure, please. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:10:32]] For 197 197-for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction of Construction and Housing of Babak Alon Valeriyevna. Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction and Housing Thank you very much for this responsible decision that you have just made. To include this bill for second reading in the agenda. What a bill. We filed it as a committee as early as April 2015, when there was an extremely difficult situation for gas and electricity companies. Over the year, the situation has been constantly in negotiations with the government, with the International Monetary Fund, on how to deal with the situation in the field of energy and utilities. We even felt that the law had fulfilled its historic mission and had drawn everyone’s attention to the problem of debt and the blocking of municipal accounts. In principle, the government is preparing a new comprehensive debt restructuring bill today, but unfortunately it's not ready today, and it won't be ready for September 1. But today’s critical situation is the preparation of water - heating companies for the heating season. We have practically blocked accounts of all district heating companies, all circuit companies. Among the licensees of the 174 companies of the Nazcomisi, 104 have blocked bills for heat, businesses cannot start preparing for the heating season. Under such tariffs, it is not possible to completely block and put at risk the operation of the entire residential complex. Therefore, the committee calls on all factions of Parliament today to support both as a temporary measure to adopt this law and to enable it to work with the aim of unlocking business accounts and preparing a normal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u119	Please finish one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u120	We ask for your support. And together, when we get a comprehensive Debt Restructuring Act with you in September, then you and I will start working in a different direction. And now we ask very much of your support, and all the territorial communities are waiting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u121	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Voropeyes. I'd like to include a word. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u122	Please give the floor to my colleague Martovitzki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u123	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, need to be clarified by the text of the draft terms that were originally mentioned in the 2015 bill in connection with the passage of the 2706 bill. In order for the bill to work in practice, by allowing NAC "Naftogazu" and "Heatcommunergo" companies to deal with restructuring problems, I, as the author of the amendments to the bill, ask you, under the transcript, to adopt bill 2706, taking into account such clarifications. In paragraph 5 of paragraph 1 of article 6, paragraph 3, “To the End” and “Transitional positions”, replace the words and digits “1 July 2015” with the words “1 January 2016”. In paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of article 6, paragraph 3, “To the End” and “Transitional positions”, replace the words and digits “July 1, 2016” with the words “August 1, 2016”. In paragraph 4 of article 6, paragraph 3, paragraph 2, “To the End” and “Transitional positions” replace the words and digits “1 July 2015” with the words “1 January 2016”. In article 6, paragraph 5, “To the End” and “Transitional positions” replace the words and digits “April 1, 2015” with the words “August 1, 2016”. I'm talking to my colleagues, all of them, in spite of political views, to support this bill and to give the Heatcommunergo enterprises the opportunity to prepare for a heating period and allow people to get the heat services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Mikola Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this bill, and the Hall invites you to mobilize to support it. I don't think there's any Marjorie MP in this room who doesn't have in his luggage any references to the leadership of the local government, from the Heatcommunergo enterprises in preparation for the new heating season. And these appeals are alarmed by the result of this training. This bill is absolutely necessary, this bill is up - to - date, and it must be supported. Our faction will support it unanimously. It is very important, with his support, to take into account those changes, those additions that are now being sounded by colleague Martovicki. These are important clarifications, and they must enter into the content of this law. Please support him, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u127	Thank you, dear fellows. The discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I'm going to put him to the vote. I would like to point out to you that the conclusion of the committee is to accept the second reading as a whole. And many factions have reported that we cannot do so in the summer without the adoption of this law. As I understand it, it is a law that unites the entire hall and is extremely important. And that's why I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Heat Management Subjects, Centralized Water Supply and Water Supply (number 2706) in the second reading and in general, with the rights that the national deputy Martovitchki has heard from the stenogram. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, Your Honor, we vote. [[13:19:33]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, congratulations! An extremely important bill. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by a number of deputies that they have not been able to participate in the vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 4890 session. You remember, this was the principle position of the People's Front. So that we can work fully, I'll re-enter the agenda. That's allowed. This is permitted by the Rules and is permitted by law. I ask you to adapt to the vote. I'm going to redo the day session of inclusion 4890, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of the collection of unwarranted assets and assets by the State whose owners are not established for inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making process (4890). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[13:20:51]] For-166 No voices. The deputies came, but there were no votes. Next we have a bill that stands in order of the day, 4516. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to minimize the administrative impact. for the administration of the budget. 4516, honorary colleagues. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please, who supports me, I ask you to vote. [[13:21:36]] For-99 The decision is not made. Hall wants a full procedure, we'll do it. And I invite you to the report of Capinus Evgen Valeriovich, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u128	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national MPs, the bill has been drafted to ensure that the International Monetary Fund's mission recommendations are implemented and the main principles of the bill are designed to improve the functioning of the DFS, reduce the number of conciliation procedures in the service, reduce the administrative prosecution of decisions by the supervisory authorities. In particular, the bill provides for a reduction in administrative complaints of financial obligations to taxpayers due to the establishment of a uniform system, and a double system is currently in place. The only level of complaint will be the central apparatus of the U.S. DFS. Another change, this clarification of the definition of control bodies is given in the Tax Code, resulting from the functions of the DFS. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u129	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block faction will not support the bill, because the changes and initiatives proposed by the drafter will not contribute to improving administration and, in particular, to improving the procedure for administrative prosecution of tax returns. Since the introduction of a uniform procedure for the prosecution of the relevant decisions of the supervisory authorities, both the public tax authorities and customs authorities, will lead to the fact that in fact the central executive authority, which ensures the implementation of public policy in tax and customs matters, will monopolize the right to administrative action. The decision is not a guarantee that decisions will be just. Quality administration will be, should be, a way for the collegiate body to give due consideration to the above-mentioned administrative complaints about the participation of the public and independent professionals, not solely with the participation of employees of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you once again, this is a question for the rapporteur. We're doing a full-time review. Please, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u132	Your Honor, I have a question for you. By this bill you propose to introduce, unify terminology regarding the name of the Ministry of Finance and the name of the State Fiscal Service. In particular, you propose to designate the Ministry of Finance as the body that provides for the formation of financial policies. Do you know, in drafting this bill, what is the definition of the Ministry in the Act on Central Executive Authorities, where article 12 states that the Ministry is the body that shapes and implements policies in the relevant sphere defined by the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Finance is the body that forms tax policy, the body that implements politics is the State Fiscal Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u137	Please, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u138	Dear reporter, I have to respond to your answer because, in fact, the Law on Central Executive Authorities defines the Ministry as the body that shapes and implements, and the service is the body that implements part of the function. Please learn games before introducing such important bills. And the next question, please say, is, why did you include customs in article 56? At what request is the head of the DFS?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u139	Thank you, please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. As for the body that shapes and implements politics, I will reiterate that the Ministry of Finance, with the sole authority that forms tax policy, is the body that has to implement this policy. It's about customs and taxes. Today, the tax office and the customs office work in the same body as the State Fiscal Service. Therefore, the prosecution of customs procedures also has to be carried out by the State Fiscal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u141	Thank you. The questions, the answers to the report are complete. I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of National Deputy Nina Yuzanin to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, you have only heard from the rapporteur of this bill: to ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund mission to improve the functioning of the DFS bodies, and to reduce the number of conciliation procedures in the service. We have reviewed this bill on a number of occasions on our own committee and made a number of observations — something that the national MPs and experts in general disagree with. But for today, after consulting with the government and with the Ministry of Finance, I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading in order to take it to the committee and to work on it, and given what our distinguished colleagues and Tetjana Ostrkova and Alexander Dudenkov have just said. Because, indeed, we need to make a number of changes for this bill to meet all the laws that we have adopted. Because it does not even take into account the changes made to the Tax Code by the last law (9009) in December of last year. And with regard to the level-playing of the decisions of the controlling authority, indeed, for customs authorities, one level cannot remain. As for the accusation of others ’ decisions. We're going to be able to go to one level in the State Fiscal Service on the condition that 50 percent of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance will be included in the Commission's review of taxpayers' complaints. Then we will be able to reach a just decision for a tax payer by a college body, that is, according to the minutes of a meeting of such a college body, even though it will be signed by the head of the State Fiscal Service. Nevertheless, it will be possible to make the right decision with respect to tax policy and formal tax policy, and given that the fiscal service will still be able to see how the tasks and functions of the State Fiscal Service are performed. Once again, I ask you, because this is still the request and requirement of the International Monetary Fund, and yet you will accept the bill in the first reading. And only within ourselves will we be able to make it as acceptable and proper as any of our requests and observations that have been made before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u143	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I ask you very much to put bill 4841 to the vote. This is a bill that also applies to changes to the Tax Code, but it's not to the IMF, but to those entrepreneurs who are forced to pay fines of 17,000 dollars today just because the Supreme Council, taking once again abrasive changes to the budget, has adopted changes that, by chance, have submitted additional reports to entrepreneurs. So I insist that today, before we vote on the bills for the IMF, we vote on any bill for entrepreneurs who work in Ukraine and pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u145	Thank you. We finished the questions to the coconspirator. Now I'm asking you to sign up from the MP factions and groups for the performance. Please record. I would like to take you to the words of the People's Deputy Roman Semenich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u147	Please, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill does not in any way improve the work of the State Fiscal Service. And in fact, the International Monetary Fund demanded quite different. But somehow the State Fiscal Service managed to push the bill number into the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. In fact, we need to improve the administrative complaint procedure in the appeal order and there is agreement. But the committee supports a completely different formula for the payers to exercise their right to an administrative charge. And this formula is that the administrative charge should end at the level of the Ministry of Finance, not at the level of the State Fiscal Service, which has no confidence in taxpayers, and cannot be the body that ultimately and ultimately resolves tax disputes in administrative order. In order to correct this, it is clear that the government will not do so. The government simply took and passed that bill, which was prepared by the government of Yatsenuk. Just took it over. The government can't do that. So I very much ask you to vote on the basis of this bill so that we can take it to the committee and work on it, because this is what tax payers really need. But our Self-Help faction will support this bill on the basis of only one condition: please remove the hands of the DFS heads from customs, because it is stated in the 56th article that decisions on complaints by control authorities are submitted to the central executive authority that implements state, tax and customs policies. And this is where the State Fiscal Service put in customs. At the same time, the procedure for accusing decisions and actions of the income and congregation authorities, particularly customs, is defined by the 25th Article of the Customs Code and should not be mixed. As it is, a person will stand on the border, and now he has the right to complain about the illegal actions of the customs officer of the customs office, and you owe him the right to complain to Nasir. Then Nasirov will deal with complaints about the actions of a person on the border at the point of entry. How long is this going to take? In no way can the Tax Code determine how customs complaints are handled. For that, there is the Customs Codex. Therefore, please refer to the entire text of the bill, including article 56. We only vote on the condition that we are currently in the decision of the Supreme Council in favour of removing the words from the 56th article "including customs". And likewise, from article 41, delete the words "implementing state policy in the field of state customs." Only under this condition is the Self-Help faction ready to give support to the government and vote on this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u149	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies, Mr. Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u150	Dear fellow citizens! What does the bill indicate, the substance of the bill? This effort is such a very, very unsuccessful effort to improve administrative prosecution procedures. What are some ways in which administrative complaints can be improved, since statistics are very disconcerting? Why? Since taxpayers do not even apply, they do not use an administrative complaint tool because there is no hope of reducing the amount to the tax liabilities that were accrued by the supervisory authorities. Because there is no hope that the actual decisions made by the superior control bodies are too fiscal. The treatment contained in the central body, the State Fiscal Service, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, in their general tax clarifications, in individual tax consultations is too fiscal. What is the solution to the corresponding administrative charges? You have to do the usual tax mediation. It's such a well-known former coalition word, in a coalition agreement. But no drafts were registered. No legislative initiative has been proposed in this direction. What is being suggested now? The procedure that exists in the current version of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation is more acceptable in terms of procedure, but it does not do quality work, quality changes in improving administrative complaints. Because, as he said in the previous speech, there are no representatives of independent bodies or public organizations, tax payers associations, professionals who are not regular employees of the relevant service, who are actually following the direction given by the respective plans and standards of government budget receipts. Therefore, they do not have to wait for justice during administrative charges. The only way to establish the truth right now is by the courts. It is in the hands of the administrative judiciary that they can undo the gross violations of the tax law in force, which the representatives of the appeals departments of the district, tax and central fiscal services do not see. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this bill, not once even on the basis of support, makes no sense, since the concept laid down in this bill is false, it is not intended to improve the administrative charge. Moreover, this bill will only make the situation worse. So the faction of the Opposition Block calls on all groups and factions not to support the bill, but to focus on the idea of introducing tax legislation in Ukraine and the idea of tax mediation, a college body that would make all decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u151	Thank you. We have completed our discussions from factions and are moving on to a discussion from the national MPs. People's deputies would like to prepare for an interview. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to draw your attention to what's going on in this room right now. Look, it's called a political crisis. No one's actually talked about it today. Some MPs are sitting in aisles, some deputies in shape, I don't know why they're in shape, probably because they say they're protectors, they're standing on the rostrum. But no one is asking to break that question. I want to ask you all: do you like working in this Parliament or am I just uncomfortable working here. So society is looking at this and it doesn't understand why schizophrenic political society is killing everyone else right now. Is there something they should be asking? Because if we don't break it now, I understand, the session will be closed tomorrow, and we'll be back in the same position in September. Why does this happen? Should we still be concerned about the issues that concern society right now? It's not just tariffs or anything, it's a lot of other questions. Now there's a question about clean air that we can't accept because there's no time and no desire. But look around, there's no one in the room to vote, not to knock, but to vote. So I see what's going on. There's a lot to talk about. Let's start this dialogue. Mr. Speaker, I'm addressing you as a professional person, you can communicate with the Opposition, make a deal with them, because now the whole community doesn't understand what's going on? Going to the polls? All right, let's announce the election. Oh, no? We need to start a dialogue. Do you agree with me? If they agree, maybe we don't have to mix the whole universe. They're looking at us now, and what do they see? Deputies sit together, others in shape, if in shape, let's go to the front, boys, that's really true, if not on the front, then take it off. And thirdly, Parliament is not when one faction or party dominates all others, it's when negotiations go on and people come to any consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u153	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I refer again to all the representatives, to my colleagues, because they will now decide whether to support or not to support this bill. I believe that all business-kils understand that the bill will not improve administration. This is an increase in centralization in the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service. More than the previous self-help factions pointed out that the introduction, the introduction of a uniform complaint on customs is simply propaganda and absurd, because customs posts because of their geographical distance, and the corresponding submission of an appropriate complaint to Kiev is just an absurd idea, it's really going to be creating artificial barriers to customs, there's going to be some lines, and it's not going to improve administration anyway. As for urgent problems and questions, I would also like to support the previous reporter. The only question we should be thinking about right now, and making decisions accordingly, is lowering the tariffs that the former coalition signed when we adopted the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund when we all understood what we were going for when we adopted the tranche. The International Monetary Fund is a financial institution, it doesn't care what income is for an average Ukrainian citizen, it's equal to the fact that 30 to 40 percent of their income is spent on housing and utilities. Just think about it: 10 million middle-retirement pensioners with a half-thousand dollars have to be paid for residential services from 400 to 600 dollars. Just think about it: since 2014, electricity prices will be increased by April 2017. Why, because the decision to increase according to the Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund will be in September 2016 and April 2017, i.e. two promotions three and a half times, up to 122 copies per kilowatt-hour. Natural gas prices will be increased by 285 percent, heating services by 66 percent. Moreover, according to a memorandum signed by valid authority, the price of heat will be tied to the imported natural gas itself. All these figures, all these laws that were passed by the then coalition, which included five factions. This was the foundation for this promotion. So now, of course, we need to look for ways to solve this situation. The Opposition Block faction will actively join any option that predicts a fall in too high housing-communal tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I still wanted to address you and to think that, indeed, the appeal procedure is now ineffective. We want to do something, and we don't change anything. We can make a uniform complaint procedure, but we've got the DFS looking at the charges of tax payers on their laps. We can force them to do so only if we consider the claims of taxpayers by a college body. So after consulting with the government, with the Ministry of Finance, which is now taking a lot of questions into consideration by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, we've come to the conclusion that if a uniform system of treatment of taxpayers' complaints to this body is made up of 50 percent of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. If necessary, let us insist that this body includes independent experts in some part. But nothing can change. Well, there's going to be two levels left, and there's no way that the tax payer issues will be resolved. Let's try it. Moreover, we have a chance to make changes to the Tax Code in the future period. And if this system doesn't work, if it doesn't benefit the taxpayer, we all know that no one hears or looks at the complaint in fact. When it's a collegiate body where both the DFS and the Minfin and the representatives from the expert environment are going to be, well, there can't be any for the taxpayer. That is, in any case, the complaint will be considered and it will follow the initiative of those representatives who will insist on the principle of handling such complaints, otherwise we will not change until the end of the year, and not in the near future, but the appeal procedure, this is the opportunity of the taxpayer to sue, this is a huge opportunity given by the State, and the payers cannot use it to the full. I ask you to support me in the first reading. Let's go to the committees and work on this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u157	Thank you very much. Now we've finished the speeches by the National Deputies. Now the closing word has a reporter and a co-reporter. I'd like you to point out in the closing statement whether you support the proposals made by the Ostrikov People's Deputy to make your position known on these proposals. And I invite you to the closing statement three minutes of Deputy Minister of Finance Marcenko Sergio Mihajlovich. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u158	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I want to tell you that the Ministry of Finance is asking the MPs to support this bill. With regard to the observations made by Deputy Ostrikov, we consider it necessary to note that the DFS body today is the only structure that includes, apart from the tax authorities, the customs authorities. We can't divide this organ into two parts, so this is the only structure, the only operator of the control. That's why we think it's necessary to point out that it's not right and that it's wrong to issue customs and accept these amendments. Thank you for your attention. People's deputies would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u159	Thank you. I now invite the co-conspirator to the conclusion of the report. And I'm still going to ask for my attitude towards the amendments that Ostrikov made. The final word is invited by a coreporter, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, on the committee, as I have told you, we have reviewed several times this bill, which has been tabled by the previous government and has been transposed by today's government. We had a huge number of comments on the bill. And the decision, of course, was to reject the bill. But in the process of discussion, I've just expressed an idea that I already have, and yesterday I spoke to the committee members at the committee meeting about what I am asking you to support in the first reading of this bill. Perhaps with the exception of the two articles on the handling of complaints about customs action, because they cannot really be transferred to one level alone. This will lead to a collapse and the inability to deal with complaints promptly by those units that are in place. This applies to customs. Therefore, if possible, I would like to ask the Chamber to vote in favour of excluding the amendment of the complaint procedure regarding the decisions of the customs authorities, to adopt the bill as a basis and to work on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m0.u161	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in order to complete the consideration of this bill, I want to see if there are enough deputies in this room. Political consultations are now under way. This law is an IMF law, and to complete it, we need to understand if we have enough votes in this room. So now I'm going to run a rating vote. Please enter the hall and take part in the rating vote. Please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the vote. Please vote. [[13:50:57]] For 124 Unfortunately, at the moment. 124. At the moment, there are not enough people in the room to continue the session. Moreover, there is now a lunch break under the Rules. And according to the Rules of Procedure Act, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. There'll be a break by four o'clock. At four o'clock, at 4:00, I ask everyone to come into the hall to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues. At 4:00, we'll continue our work. Please.
