ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. We welcome the government and the Prime Minister who have come to us in the Supreme Council. Colleagues ready for registration? Dear colleagues, national deputies, please register. [[10:03:41]] 302 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues Yuri Yuriovich Babi. Let's welcome him. As well as the birthday at Mikola Romanovich Velichovich. Welcome to Mikola Romanovich. Happy birthday, buddy! Welcome. [[Applause]] Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we have an hour of questions to the government today, and I'm going to remind you of the structure of this hour. These are 30 minutes of speeches and answers to written questions from the MPs, and then 30 minutes -- questions from the national MPs to the government. And the first one we have today is First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. He's asking for a little more time, we're going to continue as long as it takes to tell the national MPs the truth about the government's work. Please, Stepan Ivanovich, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Speaker, Mrs. Oksana Ivanovna! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, fellow government officials! Dear national MPs, representatives of the media! I'm happy to address you today. We've come a hard way with you. Those for Ukraine struggled with those for whom you spoke of it. As Lubomir Guzar said, there is no division between East and West. There is a division between those who love Ukraine and those who do not love Ukraine. Unfortunately, today, as you do, I realize that some political forces would like to stabilize society, but Ukrainian citizens have shown wisdom and are grateful for that. Clearly, the community longs to understand the state and prospects of the country’s development, including the economic situation, the eve of the Dignity Revolution. So today I'm going to show in numbers that the country's economy has not only stabilized, but is also gradually being restored and moved to growth. Despite difficult working conditions, the government, the President, the Ukrainian Parliament, are united in working on important reforms, because only by working together can we break the backs of corruption, overcome poverty and build a worthy future. Yes, these rates are slower than they wanted to be. But the East War and the population within the country, corruption does not contribute to our work on reform. Reforms today should meet an important criterion: changing people's lives for the better, laying the foundation for prosperity and prosperity. Of course, it takes time for each person to experience real changes. But this time is approaching, and with every point of GDP growth, the return of people's trust in power or the rating of business growth and running it easily, pragmatically, in the right field. I'll be honest with you, these reforms are not easy because they need to be systemic and rarely have an immediate effect. We don't need the pendulum effect, we don't need the effect that a person will feel when everything jumps down after the peak. We're working on a constant growth effect for years and decades. It's the only way the reforms are needed by Ukraine. Convinced that both terrorists and populists will be overcome if we unite our efforts to fight for a better future for Ukraine. That's why I want to thank Andrea. In the past few weeks, a number of important reform laws have been passed by Paris, members of the Supreme Council. These are 18 laws on the priorities of the Mine Economic Development, of which seven were adopted as a whole. This was facilitated by the four economic days in Parliament that we evaluated, initiated, effectively spent, and the implementation of this practice increased the effectiveness of voting for important reforms. Also, meetings with factions, heads of ministerial factions, deputy ministers, and professional departments have improved. and improved the debate area at the committee level on the adoption of the bill. I'm talking about laws for business: 4496 – exports of services, 2763 – cancellation of mandatory investment registration, 4484 – deregulation of the drug market, 3062 – reform of corporate governance, reform of state control, which will remove unnecessary pressure on business – 2418a, 2531a, 3153. These bills improve the business climate in the country. And that will attract investment and accelerate economic growth. In particular, I want to mention another, one important victory that no one could achieve for many years, and specifically 25 years. Yesterday, the NCRECR applied changes to the method of calculating wages for joining the power grids according to the standards of connectivity. That's plus 13 in the ease of doing business rating. But the main thing is a very good, efficient business acceleration procedure, of course, given the correct implementation by the archergics, which are expected to reduce the time frame from more than 260 days to 45 days. Now we need to keep an eye on their work. So when you are told that reforms are not taking place, you need to see the facts, see the figures, and see the realities of today’s life. The international rating agency Fitch has raised Ukraine's sovereign rating. The international partners confirmed that Ukraine had come out of a predept state. A higher rating reflects lower risks and increased investor confidence in Ukraine. An important emphasis is that in Ukraine the small and medium-sized enterprise sector accounts for 99 percent of the total, 1.97 million enterprises and individuals registered in 2015. However, these companies have a relatively small share of the economy, not more than 15 percent of GDP, while in developed countries this can be 70 percent of GDP. In other words, small and medium-sized business development will be a powerful stimulus for economic development. In the context of the development of the economy, a development strategy was developed and presented, the support of the IAS together with other international partners of the European Union, for which I want to thank them. In the first half of 2016, the shadow economy accounted for 38 percent of WFP. This means that a decrease of 4 percent is compared to the same period in 2015. Childhood is the result of a number of factors. The first is to consolidate relative macroeconomic stability. Inflation in the first half of 2015 consisted of 4.9 versus 40.7. The devaluation of the exchange rate of the bracelet was 6.5 versus 1.4 times in January/June 2015. Improving the business climate as a result of deregulation policies and optimizing the functioning of the public sector in order to improve its effectiveness. In accordance with the ease of business 2017, Ukraine placed 80 seats among 190 countries in the ranking. Let's make it clear that the methodology that was applied was different, but we're still growing a little bit. This is the second factor that is very important. The third factor is the gradual recovery and formation of new inter-branch linkages in the economy. And the fourth factor is the initiation of childization processes in the labour market as a result of the decline in the EU. Thanks to the government's actions, we were able to achieve macroeconomic stability, and the unity of the government, the President, the National Bank of Ukraine, and the beginning of the year of projected recovery, the growth of Ukraine's economy. So if, in the first quarter of 2016, there was a 0.1 percent increase in GDP before the corresponding quarter of the previous year, in the second quarter of 2016 there was 1.4 percent increase in the third quarter of this year. Growth is taking place in all forms of economic activity in the real economy. According to January/Yellow, positive dynamics show: agriculture - plus 2.8; industrial production - plus 2; capital investment - plus 9.6 percent. The inflation process is slowing down. If consumer prices increased by 43.3 percent in 2015, only 9.4 in 10 months 2016. The stable price situation in the consumer market is due to the saturation of the internal market in goods. This is a seasonal increase in production and increase in import supply by moderate domestic demand by anti-inflationary monetary policy. As a result of the increase in production, the slowdown in inflation, the increase in the minimum wage from 1 May 2016 to 5.2 per cent, to 1450, the decrease in the EU’s rate, starting in May 2016, is the first real wage increase in two years, and the sum of January-September is 9.1. In addition, the nominal average monthly salary of employees in January-September 2016 increased by 24.3 percent to 4,989. Bilateral trade with the European Union is steadily growing. The EU is the main trading partner of Ukraine with a market share of 41.4 per cent and the only trading partner with whom growth is observed. It's a clear policy of the government, of the President, of the Supreme Council to diversify the appropriate export risks. According to the results of 9 months 2016, exports of Ukrainian goods to the EU accounted for 37.7 percent, starting with 33 during the same period in 2015, five points up. It's the right trend, it's the right risk diversification tool. So given the current positive trends in 2016, we expect an annual increase in GDP of at least 1 percent. In 2017 we predict and present this in the budget, at plus 3 percent. We expect inflation to be 14.1 percent, maybe even less this year. In 2017 we predict inflation at 8.1. I would like to point out, gentlemen, that we are going to have to work together to get to those figures in 2017. We have to ensure that the flow of foreign capital, long-term investments, and a balanced tariff policy that needs to be clear, transparent and maintained by appropriate environments. We're changing the pattern of economic development. If the previous model was based on expanded consumer demand, which was largely satisfied with imports due to the lack of domestic production, steady economic growth will now be built on an investment-innovation basis, improved business conditions, improved competition, privatization in macrostability conditions stimulates investment growth both internally and externally. The implementation of investment projects to resupply most of the core funds will increase the quality of domestic production and help bring its parameters closer to the level of developed economies. If, at the time of independence, the share of the GDP industry was 44 percent, today, 14 percent, corresponding to the beginning of the forced industrialization of the South East Asian economy. The potential of production capacity is exhausted. The added value of the per capita industry in Ukraine dropped three times in independence, $632 in 1992 to $242 in 2015. For example, in the European Union this figure is 4,000. 416 dollars. The world is 1650. Europe understands that industry has a significant role to play in structural transformations, which is why it is recommended for EU countries to increase their share of GDP by 20 per cent by 2020. At the same time, Ukraine retains and even increases the potential to produce high - tech products based on domestic development. AN-225, "Mria" is the world's largest and most powerful transport aircraft, created by the Kiev KGB named Antonov. Zenith is a Ukrainian rocket for the launch of a useful cargo orbit of up to 12 tons, KB "Southern". Gas turbine engines for civil aviation have been created by AT Motor-Sic. Bronze technology developed by the H.P. "Hark Construction Office of Morozov Machine Building." It's a substation for the PAT "Harkowski podwietzki factory." Diesel trains, freight and passenger cars, ATAEC development, Krukov train factory. Grain harvester, Herson Machine Plant. Gas turbine engines and power plants, "Star"- "Mashproject". Today, there are a number of important projects in Parliament, of which I recall 4666, 4194, 4470, 4958, 4591, 4493, 40. 5105 and a number of others. Parliamentary support, unity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u3	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u4	Parliament's support, Parliament's unity, the debate on the Committees of the Supreme Council Parliament will allow for effective adoption of the bills in both the first and second readings. We must be responsible and conscientious together – Parliament, President and Government. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u5	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. The next one is the Foreign Minister Paul Anatoliovich Klimkin. And it'll take up to 15 minutes, and then there'll be questions to the government. Please, Paul Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u6	Dear Sir, ladies and gentlemen of the people! Before I have the honour to say a few words about the adoption by the Third Committee of a resolution on the state of human affairs in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, I would like to place particular emphasis on yesterday's decisions by the permanent representatives of the member states of the European Union. Because I got a lot of questions last night, which is the mandate to negotiate, what to eat with, or the next wave of negotiations will begin. To date, the European Commission has made a political decision on Ukraine’s compliance with all the criteria of the visa-free regime. This is what the European Parliament has done by making decisions at the Internal Affairs Committee. Yesterday, the third and last European Union institution also made a decision. Today, all three key institutions of the European Union made it clear that "Ukraine meets these criteria." So now we're going to start a consultation on the legislative, I stress, a formal legislative proposal that will give Ukraine a visa-free regime. And we also have ongoing consultations today between the European Parliament, the member countries of the European Union on what the mechanism for responding to migration risks will look like. As soon as this mechanism is approved and there are signs that the discussions on this issue are progressing, we will have a path forward on the visa-free regime. Another important thing, including for me emotionally, personally, is the adoption on the Third Committee of a resolution on the human rights situation that I have already mentioned. First, we had 41 co-authors of this resolution. And that's a pretty serious amount. From the very beginning, we longed for the strongest possible text of this resolution. In this resolution, two accents, two accents. One, once again confirmed the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, has also been recognized by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol as temporarily occupied territories. This is very clearly confirmed, this is a political position, this position we can refer to both politically and legally. But the second emphasis was the condemnation of human rights by the occupying country of the occupied Crimea: these are also extrajudicial executions, kidnapping, political-motivated persecution, violation of the right to freedom of expression and assembly, information, religious rights, the violent introduction of Russian citizenship in the occupied territory, the recognition of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people by the extreme organization. The Third United Nations Committee strongly condemned and, of course, the persecution of those living in Crimea on a national basis. By the way, I'd like to emphasize separately, because it didn't go through our media once, that the resolution highlights the ban on the recruitment of the Armed Forces of the occupying country in the occupied territory. There is also an appeal to the occupying country in accordance with international law, and I consider this to be one of the real results of the resolution, to guarantee, I stress, that it is to guarantee unhindered access to the occupied Crimea to international justice mechanisms, and of course to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to prepare an appropriate report on the human rights situation in the area of the temporarily occupied Crimea. This is all very important because this will be done in accordance with the mandate of the UN Observation Mission in Ukraine. We will now work to ensure that this resolution is approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations. But we do have a very clear political medium, a very clear political message about what Russia has done and is doing in the territory of the occupied Crimea. And the last. I'd also like to pay particular attention to that. On the same day that the third committee adopted this resolution, the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court issued a report, a report containing very important things, namely the international qualification of what Russia has done and continues to do in the occupied Crimea and on Donbassa, stresses that this is in addition to the political framework set by the resolution, creating a legal framework. Thus, both in the political and legal spheres, we received a clear medium, a clear medium from the international community to Russia. And this framework will work for any other consultation of these negotiations on the occupied Crimea. I would also like to point out that the ISS Prosecutor's report classifies the situation as an international armed conflict between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. You've probably seen Russia's immediate reaction from the International Criminal Court, as if in one night this decision had been agreed upon. I'm sure that setting both the political and the legal framework will help us greatly in our efforts to buy into the Crimea. And I want to thank everyone in this room who's worked with us to get a decision on the visa-free regime, that we have just this extremely strong resolution. Some thanks to Mustafa Jemiliev and Emine Japarov, who worked with us all this time in New York. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u7	Thank you, Minister. People's deputies would like to prepare themselves for the record and questions of the government. Please hold the recording, please. I'd like to invite you to the floor of People's Deputies Anton Yatzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u8	Please give the floor to Deputy Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u9	Please, National Deputy Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u10	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. I would like to address you with the sad situation that has arisen with the demarcation of the state border. The fact is that the personal composition of the delegation of Ukraine, which participates in the meeting of joint inter-State commissions on State border demarcation issues, was approved as early as 2011. Today, the vast majority of the members of this delegation do not work because they have been relieved of their positions and have not taken part in the work of the commission. And accordingly, the situation is that there are only two people working on this committee. For the time being, work on establishing a state border, such as Moldova and Belarus, has been virtually halted. This question has been raised repeatedly before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it has not yet been resolved. I'd like to ask you personally to deal with this situation, to give you an assignment, and finally this issue will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Mr. Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Good afternoon, madam vice-speaker, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'd ask if you'd give me an official address, and I'll essentially make an appointment to sort things out. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Corchik Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u15	Please, Andrew Teteruk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u16	Thank you to my colleague, Vitalia Corchik. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I am pleased that you are taking time to study the situation in our space field. And as you can see, after the meeting you've had, there's nothing to be proud of today. And the level of managers who make decisions and roll projects by taking taxpayers' money remains the same as that of the past. So I'd like to ask, on what grounds did the Cabinet of Ministers cancel the legitimate competition for the post of Director General of the South Bank? And how do you try to assign leaders to such a responsible field as space? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Andrey, you know that all the competitions run by the Ministry of Economics are held, first, according to procedure and position, second, they are conducted in a transparent and public manner. With regard to the contests that are now under way, five. I would like to say that the competitions go according to the law and according to the Rules. Unfortunately, considering that there is a process of identification among the five who have passed, we cannot sound and we will give the nomination committee. Regarding the space sector that you're talking about, this meeting was allowed by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it could have been all of them, and it was decided unanimously by the commission. Today, the legal position developed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Economics has proposed a decision to hold a meeting in five working days, which I think is Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Fedor Negoy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u20	Oksana Ivanovna, can I have one word?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u21	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u22	I just want to add. Thank you for asking. I believe that the space sector of our country should receive serious support. But I wouldn't want this support to be the way it was for many years, when the funds were allocated, we were brought into three pines, sorry in a word, then no funds, no normal state of affairs in the space field. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council and you, my fellow national MPs, yesterday supported a law that will allow the debt to be extended, 400 million for the Southern, I promised you in this room. And the next position that I actually did last week, in this office, was to hold a meeting, a closed meeting, with all the representatives of the space sector. Now I'm going to form a small working group, and I want to go into detail about what's going on in the space sector, which are the projects that started, effectively whether they're started or whether there are huge problems. I think there's a problem. How much resources do we need, what sources of funding, how does the space management system work? This all needs an answer today, because there is no, I would say, an effective system, even the management of this sector. And then the next position, we agreed that the National Space Agency would find the resources and send these resources to the South just to close off the payroll debt. It's going to be between 50 and 60 million dollars. I look forward to this decision so that we can extend our debts and services to the utilities and according to the wages. We have to get these companies out of the crisis, they have huge opportunities and potential. And it is a sin to bring them to where they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Next question, National Deputy Feder Negoi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u25	Please, National Deputy Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u26	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, let me ask you a question! I know that as a speaker and today as Prime Minister of Ukraine, you were one of the lobbyists and advocates for independent managers to be appointed as directors of strategic state-owned enterprises. But I want to draw your attention to the competition that took place six months ago, which is a competition for the appointment of the head of the strategic company Ukrenergo, in which not the Georgian, not the Polish, but one of the best Ukrainian managers, Sergey Zujev, who has not been appointed to office for more than six months by the government, and today by the courts. Two weeks ago, the Economic Policy Committee considered this issue and recommended it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u27	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u28	Two weeks ago, the Economic Policy Committee addressed this issue and recommended that the government appoint the winner of the competition to perform their duties temporarily, since the acting director, who performs his duties, has long since expired. So far, however, no response has been given. Your answer, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u29	I want to say that the form of the nomination committee is a new form, a public one, a promising one, and it will live in Ukraine. In order to change the corruption of public appointments, unfortunately, the normative framework today does not fully permit. One of the applicants was obliged by the Ministry of Economics to suspend the appointment. I've met with all the candidates, and for today, there's a legal evaluation. A nomination committee meeting on a given branch and on a given enterprise will be decided by the end of the month. We know this as to what step to take. What's more, when I met you on your request, for which I thank you, accordingly, it gave an impetus to speed up the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u30	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Szynkovic Andry Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I extend my sincere support to all the things you do. And I ask you with the same perseverance to bring order to the Ministry of Health. Questions specifically to the minister of health. Dear Mrs. Uljano-Nadija, the reforms you're initiating are right, but only on paper, we don't feel them either. We don't know in detail, you don't do explanatory work among the deputies, and more so among the people of your structure. People don't feel them. Two days ago, a child was killed because of the fact that you are eliminating 24 - hour stations in large villages that are centers or are planning to become centers of united communities. I'm specifically asking you, Mrs. Ulyana, give us the right to organize a 24-hour station, give us a methodology on how to do this, which is exactly the disease at the expense of the local community. I can't come to you, you won't accept me, I've been asking you for a long time to respond, two weeks to ask you to join me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u32	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Just yesterday we had a big move where we invited the High Council of Deputies Committee to talk to us about the reforms that are currently taking place in the system. Well, one of those reforms is on the primary chain, we're strengthening the primary chain, and we're going to help make them available for 24 hours, and the center of the primary chain, and also in hospitals, so that there's a separation of emergency situations for people who are sick on the evenings or the weekends. I'm ready to accept you, and I'm sorry if there's a problem with my reception, but I'm always ready to take on the national MPs and talk about it. And I call you now, you can come to me, give me your phone number. I can even meet you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Melnichenko Vladimir Volodymyrovic, "Block of Petra Prashenko". And yes, the last question is the answer, Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey. Thank you very much, Andrey Volodymyrovich, and Andriy Shinkovich for the questions. Health reform is not a simple answer. There have been many ways to change this system, but this has led to the collapse of the system itself and nothing new has been created. And what the current acting minister of health and the new team of the Ministry of Health is doing together with the committee, with our international partners and experts, is finding a joint solution that will enable us all to start global reform together. The government of Ukraine is ready for this. What is more, we feel that we need to include local authorities, such as unified local communities, towns, district councils, and administrations, and district authorities. This must be our joint reform. What would I like to accomplish in this regard? I would like to achieve a proper system of organization, accessibility of health facilities. I would very much like to have the funds we finance for health care spent, not on the wall, but on specific medical services that a Ukrainian citizen receives. We obviously need to put in place a system of health insurance, which is also very important. We need to do everything we can to make the situation go away. And we're going to start with the original chain, and we're going to do it with you. Because we believe that this reform is extremely important. You and I have already entered, the government has decided to re-encourage. That means we'll compensate patients for cardiovascular disease: hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and asthma, the cost of medicine. This will improve the health situation of our Ukrainian citizens. The reference price will result in a real decrease in the price of drugs in Ukraine. We've continued international procurement, which will be effective, will be marked by the number of medicines purchased, including for those with cancer. As you know, we've literally recently unlocked work, and we're building, and we're building, and I want to assure you, the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital, which hasn't been built in four years at all. Now it's building, and there's a lot of work going on. I call on the only one. Colleagues, this is an overwhelming system. The government is ready to reform it. Let's not criticize each other, let's advise each other to make the right decision. Because today the health system is in a very difficult clinical state. And we need this system to be adequate, and we need doctors to get a decent salary for their activities. And that means that we need to change, including the funding system. Although the government has foreseen in the 2017 budget, and I hope that Ukraine's national deputies will support not only 50 percent, but almost 50 percent, compared to the increase in the minimum wage. Paying teachers. And let's also kind of approximate the 30 percent increase in the wages of doctors. I think this is a very good start, and I urge us to do this reform together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u36	Thank you. Melnichenko Volodymyrovich, Peter Dustenka's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u37	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u38	Hello, distinguished members of the government! Distinguished Vladimir Borisovic, in the Odessa region, there was a natural disaster: a morvoxal building was damaged, several architectural monuments were destroyed, and most importantly, a completely destroyed government vertical. The name for the Tornado Misha disaster, and today we have a situation where the Saakashvili team has led to the worst indicators in the Odessa region in a number of ways, including the provision of people and the allocation of subsidies. I have already raised this issue in the past “hour of government issues” and I would like to ask the Minister of Social Policy to report on what the Government is doing today. I know you've taken personal control of this situation and I'd like to know what the results are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u39	Dear National Deputy Honcharenko, Deputy Minister of Social Policy Machinin and Deputy Prime Minister Kistion were in Odessa County yesterday. And one of the issues that they've been studying is the state of the subsidy and the organization of Odessa's district to help level things up. I haven't received the report yet, but in general. I spoke to Mr. Male on the phone last night, terrible impressions of what was going on there. We are now preparing a working group that will go to the Odessa region and provide practical assistance to the Odessa region in order to align the situation with the assignment of subsidies. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the city of Odessa is concerned. We got a letter from Truhanov's city head saying that Odessa took part in this project, which was initiated by the government in accordance with our programme, the creation of the ProZorro office, where the relevant project and cost-sharing documentation is approved. And we're now on co-financing terms to help the city of Odessa in the Kyiv region to organize a citizen's reception process, which will be the first step in shaping the entire Odessa subsidy system, and hopefully in the entire Odessa area. I promise you that we will keep you personally informed about the results of your work and I hope that we will align the situation within a month in your area.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u40	Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u41	Thank you for your question about Odessa. As has already been pointed out, I have instructed Deputy Prime Minister Volodymyr Kistion to move to the Odessa area yesterday. He met absolutely with all the leaders: heat, infrastructure, roads, social services, including. There were deputy ministers. We will give the necessary attention to the Odessa region as long as a public competition is held and a position is determined, a candidate for the post of head of the Odessa District State Administration. So I want to assure you that from a professional point of view, the Odessa area will be under special care until then. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u42	Thank you. The question is given to Red Olga Valerian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u43	Thank you, dear fellows. I have a question for Mr. Gennady Zubko. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, could you please inform me and the entire Ukrainian Parliament about the execution of your mandate to ensure the warmth of the residents of the city of Krasnorovka Donetsk. As you know, the heating season has not yet begun, and this situation has been going on for the second year. In people’s homes, there is cold, literally everywhere in schools, there is no heat in hospitals. The local military-civil administration has been sending me letters with her for two and a half hours and they write that the issue is now being resolved on the provision of equipment for 296 residents of Krasnovka and 244 inhabitants of Marinka. While only one Krasnogorovka, as I know, has 600 facilities to provide. Please tell me I know you're human.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u44	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u45	Gennady Grigorovich, I know you're a person responsible, and that you're checking to make sure everything's okay there. Please inform me whether you know what the terms of the military-civil administration or the Cabinet of Ministers are, or whether I don't know who will solve this issue. And so it's in quantities like the need, not in quantities that someone wants, some authorities in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Olga, for that question. I would like to draw the entire MP’s attention to the difficult situation in Marinz and Krasnogorovka. You know that literally two days have taken place again, and once again the civilian population has been shot again, and not only are the supplies of the type, both the boilerhouses and the homes of our Ukrainians. My deputy, Edouard Borisovich, was on the move. Along with the military and civilian administration, an addressable practical and assistance was sent, which should take place in every household, where assistance is needed in terms of providing not only heating systems in the form of ovens, or bourgeois, but also fuel transport, which can be used. What you've been told by the military-civil information is already in the updated address data, which is also in Krasnorovka, Marinci, that's exactly the number given. The previous one was foreseen in the budget of the Donetsk Region to provide some 600 with reserve supplies for the Red Cross, and 600 for the Marinsk region. So directly, the fact that address details were given you now have information. Military-civil information has already been done, the part that came to you. The money was taken from the local budget. And today, there is also a question about how these people can be provided directly with fuel for heating. But the situation is difficult, and the situation is constantly two locations under fire. And I think that this is where decisions will be made exactly if they can move out of this area, which is constantly threatened not only by the issue of energy supply but also by the question of their lives in general and their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u47	Thank you. So the word is given to Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u48	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the Prime Minister and Stepan Kube for the work done with Ukratranshimyak. That there was a Russian takeover that was running this company. Well, now, essentially. Mr. Prime Minister, you have criminals working in the government. Mr. Prime Minister! You have criminals working in the government. This is the Secretary of Defense and his deputies some. The first thing they did was over 400 people left their primary job, illegally released. And secondly, they tricked you. If you remember, about six months ago, I was talking about giving the participants fighting. So they did the investigation and they tricked you. Please make an independent investigation and order those responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u49	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u50	Please count this as a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u51	Thank you very much for your request. I just want to respond. First Vice Prime Minister, First Vice Prime Minister. According to the Secretary of Defense. I don't think the country's secretary of defense is a criminal. I think in many cases he has to be said to be a hero. When, during such a difficult period of time, our country took on a weighty and heavy responsibility. So I would ask that we choose words when we address the general of the army, the man standing on the edge today to protect, together with our soldiers, the territorial integrity of our beautiful country. I think today the Secretary of Defense needs, not criticism, but support. So I would very much ask that we be completely consolidated here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u53	Andrew Volodymyrovich, there was a question for me. Dear fellow MPs, for the third time today, there are questions about competitive interviews with heads of state enterprises. The comprehensive answer is this: 40 participants participated in the Ukkrimtransamaku, 5 were taken; 25 participants participated in the Borispol Airport, 5 were taken; about 35 participants participated in the Eletrovmash airport, 5 were taken; 5 were taken; 5 were taken from the port of Mariupol, about 8 participants. Finalists were appointed according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers from 2 to 5, which went on the final tour. Between 28.11 and 2.12 meetings of the Nominee Committee are scheduled to be held, including representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, international representatives and independent experts, to be informed publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Ilyuk Artem Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u55	Artem Ilyuk, the city of Nikolayev. In upholding the rights of the Nikolai company Zora-Mashprojekt, I wish to give the floor to Andrei Vadaturski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. Two weeks ago, the state-run Ukratransgaz conducted a fair tender through Prozorro for the modernization of three compressor stations of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The competition was won by Ukrainian producers Sumskie NGO and Mikolai's Zora-Mashproject. Over 20,000 workers have been given a job and are confident that they will be able to feed their families. However, I learned from media publications that there are some personal disputes and misunderstandings between Naftogazu's manager and Ukrattransgas. There is a danger that this may have a negative impact on the implementation of such an important project. I would like to ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, as head of the Ukrainian government, to make every effort not to allow bad personal relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u57	Please let me finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u58	The relationship between two companies has been hampered by the modernization of the gas transport system, as this will result in job losses, damage to national interests and undermine Ukraine's energy independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I want to say. That the government of Ukraine supports and will support policies to support our nation’s industry. We are now developing approaches that will allow our Ukrainian companies to participate fully in all state tenders. And it's very important for us that every Ukrainian bracelet is invested in our national economy. This means that we will be as supportive as possible of Ukrainian manufacturing of a high level of localization product, with added value for Ukrainians to have a job and a corresponding salary. This is about our general approach. As far as tender procedures are concerned. There is a transparent system and there are those who participate in both purchases and sales. And we, as the government of Ukraine, have no authority, in any way or otherwise, to interfere. So it's outside the government, outside the government's jurisdiction. I hope that this tender went through fairly, transparently, and there is no reason for it to be cancelled or reviewed. Once again, it's very important for us for the government to make sure that as much as we can buy was Ukrainian production by 100 percent. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, two minutes, two only questions we can ask. This is Yuzanina and Solovay. And that concludes our time of questions. So, Eugene Nina Petrovna, Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Kudlainka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich and Your Honor Andrija Alexiyovich! I have a very simple and general question for today. First installment. Please provide information on what the government has done today to compensate Ukrainian citizens for their value, which the percentage of utility costs for Ukrainian families covers subsidies. And I want to point out that we are going into almost two weeks of district work today, and I'm asking my fellow national deputies not to use this time to oppress the situation, but rather to help our citizens and our electorates to get quality services in their respective departments to grant subsidies and to carry out appropriate government-related explanatory work so as not to use and oppress the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u63	Thank you. I just want to remind you that we have a week's work on committees and a week's work in the districts. Unfortunately, we didn't vote in favour of changing the calendar plan, and we'll think about how to get out of this, but I'm reporting to the general public. So will someone answer or ask the next question? Reva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u64	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! According to the housing grant program that the government is implementing today, the state of subsidies granted to more than 6 million households in Ukraine has claimed 6 million 400,000. I want to tell you about the basic numbers that we have today. The first position that relates to the amount, more precisely, the percentage of the payment, which is the main indicator to understand how much people pay. So, as of today, the average percentage of payment for utilities in Ukraine, I'm paying attention to all the national MPs, is 9.79 per month of total income for every household that received subsidies on average, i.e. less than 10 per cent. That's the first one. The other one. The average monthly income of the household receiving subsidies is 1 thousand 826 dollars per household. The average score that people have made today is about 1,000,864 bracelets. So it's pretty much the same amount of payments we need and the same amount of income, but people only pay 10 percent of their total income. We hope that during the heating season, the number of people who turn, we estimate the maximum possible number of households of 8 to 9 million, but the growth rate that we see today is 7 to 7.5 million households.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u65	Thank you. And the last question is "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u66	Please pass the question to Irina Souslowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u67	I'll give it to you. Let's ask her a question, and you answer, and then you say the closing word, Vladimir Borisovich. Please, Irina Suslova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. The first question, many today political speculations around the next tranche of the IMF and related to it seem to be an increase in retirement age. First, is it true or not? And the second question is, does the government even have a view of pension reform? And the next part of the question. Customs reform was declared by the government as one of the priorities when we saw the reform plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u69	Thank you so much for your question. Dear colleagues, I would like to return to the subject of tariffs. I would like to emphasize once again that the Ukrainian government has set only a marginal price for gas, and all the other tariffs are set for the supply of heatcommunergo to our country. This means that it is at the Heatcommunergo level that Ukrainian tariffs are being formed. First of all, I just wanted everyone to be very clear about it. What about statistics, as stated by the Minister of Social Affairs? We understand that we needed to create a system of quality compensators. And today we're counting on up to 7.5 million households in the country being able to pay up to 10 percent of their total income. You know, the government used to say that this would be essentially about 15 percent. But now we can definitely see that this figure is 9.79 percent, this is the average payment per country, from the total income of the household. And so, once again, I want to emphasize that all those with low incomes can completely quietly form their subsidy now, a month from the start of the heating season, and get the opportunity to pay for housing services no more than 10-15 percent. And maybe where high income, higher income, is about 20 percent of total income. But now the figure says, the average number says the following is not more than 10 percent. That's the first one. Second position. Of course, those with money pay the full price. What do we want with you people to pay 10 percent? Where, then, is social justice? Let those with money pay the full market price. What, then, should they pay less or less than what people with low incomes pay? Second position. If a person for any reason has not formed a subsidy, doesn't like it, doesn't want any other reasons, he has the ability to totally calmly reduce the pressure on the average monthly payment. The government has given the opportunity: a discount, more precisely, a non-performing schedule, without any weight. I just wrote a statement that I'm going to pay in the schedule, and it pays 50 percent each month of the price they've been paid. This is the second position. And the third position. In the summer, the government increased its funding to compensate for the price of solid fuel by nearly a thousand dollars. This means that those families that don't have gas and so on are able to get solid fuel, and we've added one thousand bracelets for every appropriate household. This is the first step, so we've now taken the first step. Next, we will see the real state of affairs with regard to the income of Ukrainian citizens. And those in need of protection, our task is to continue the system of such compensators. But you and I, we killed corruption in gas pricing. I realize that people are being digested today, digested by the fact that these tariffs are very terrible there. Yeah, they're high, but there's a compensator. The state will pay anyone who needs it. And whoever has the money, well, let them pay for it. And that's basically social justice. There should be no humiliation in assigning subsidies. You can submit an application electronically. You know that the government is running an information campaign, and every person who receives an account gets an explanation of the state of affairs that are, in fact, the possibilities for such compensation. I want to emphasize once again: we just have to do the real thing, not the nightmares of people. They've been nightmares about how many months it's been gone, Armageddon! And I think we need to protect those who need protection and give it to those who have made billions of dollars in Ukrainian gas. I will not support corruption in the oil and gas sector. I won't! And no one's gonna make me do it! [[Applause]] And this is a fundamentally important question. And they spit on the tariffs that people pay today, and they spit on people. Some of them are here. I've already talked about what's going on and telling us how to live, so what is being the Prime Minister of our country for three or four years, having the majority in Parliament nothing has been done for the Ukrainian state? On the contrary, it was done that we entered a powerful, serious economic crisis. And we were screaming from the TV screens that everything was gone. Not everything's gone! We have today, our esteemed colleagues, the country's credit rating increase, we're out of the pre-default state. We have 1.8 percent of the increase in the internal gross product today in the third quarter. Is that enough? No! No! Not enough. But that's a good signal. A signal that tells us that if we work hard for Ukraine, we're going to get an increase of both 7 and 8, and 10 percent. But to do so is not to talk about work but to do it. So once again, I want to emphasize that all those who say that everything is gone, I want to disappoint them. Drink the halloween, nothing is lost, everything will be perfectly normal, and the situation in the country will be absolutely stable. Since December 1, dear friends, we have increased the minimum pension by 10 percent. Is that small or large? It's small. But we're taking a step forward, not back. We increase the minimum wage twice. Today, every citizen who works will receive 3,200 dollars. What have we not done before? I understand when 2014, 2015, first government, second government after the Dignity Revolution, as they were. How hard it was. And you and me. But the time has come for us to pay off our debts today. And where does this increase come from? What, more chatty from this rostrum? Yes, no, every day a Ukrainian citizen, a Ukrainian entrepreneur does his job conscientiously, and this work is pouring into economic growth. So we should not interfere with them, and we should help them. We have to adopt laws that will allow them to earn and make our country richer. And those who are pouting, let them stand in front of the mirror and rehearse, you know, and that's the main place they're going to be, in front of the mirror, to nightmare themselves. Dear friends with respect to pension reform, we have to approach the country's pension system with you. The country's pension system has, unfortunately, created conditions for the total poverty of Ukrainian pensioners and this issue is totally unacceptable. So we need to work with you to make decisions that will allow people to get a normal and minimum pension, and a normal average pension. And we're working very seriously on this issue today, and we need additional resources to do that. But I know exactly as soon as we have at least one percent of that to change this system and make it fair, we will do it with you. And as for the reform of Ukrainian customs. We're now working on creating a working group, including deputies, with a profile committee, so that you can complete the proposals we have today. There are a lot of models for reforming Ukrainian customs. But in the next year's budget, we're spending on technological modernization, to make our borders, first of all, unapproachable to smuggling, and second of all, transparent, so that we can see clearly where, in which direction, the problem is taking place, that's the first position. Second position, we'll work out a plan with you and we'll confirm it. Because we're going to need legislative support. And I understand that the smuggling lobby will knock these laws out of the order of our daily Parliament. But I also hope that we have enough political will with you to make borders effective so that we can get tens of billions of dollars into the state budget. And these tens of billions to transfer, to invest in the well-being of our Ukrainian citizens, is our duty with you, but once again I stress, there will be no reform of the government. The reform will be our joint, parliamentary government, which will be approved and supported by the President of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for asking the government an hour. Only Vladimir Borisovich! Apparently, the Prime Minister has discussed the chat room in this rostrum. Most of the bills that we're adopting here together, both government and parliament, are joint work. And most of our initiatives, which are, are initiatives that are responsible, initiatives that reform the country. And the entire legislative basis for reforms was created in this Parliament by the MPs, Vladimir Borisovich, including you as the then Speaker of Parliament and the current Prime Minister. And that's why I'm going to give the floor to Vladimir Borisovich to correct his speech. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u71	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Highly esteemed, dear national MPs! I have deep respect for the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Parliamentarians. I want to express my gratitude to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian National Deputies, that where the issue is raised by the government, you are always supporting us and going to meet us. I meant the bolts. You know who I mean. These are the units in this Parliament, the units that, apart from slapping their tongues, can't do anything anymore. They didn't prove it once. That's why I meant them. And I would like to thank you once again for your full support and for the factions of the coalition and for the non-fractional people's deputies and for the groups and factions that support the government's initiatives. Because government initiatives are initiatives that change our country. Thank you very much again. And I wish us good luck together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u72	Thank you so much for our dialogue. "The year of questions before the government" is over. We thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the discussion. And now, according to the Rules, we have time to announce parliamentary inquiries. And I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksani Siroid. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u73	First, we'll take you to the President. We have a request from Mr. Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine "not subject to publication" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the U.S.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretarys of the Ukrainian Company, etc., and members of their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the President of Ukraine should be voted in favour of the request first. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself and to vote in favour of the request of the National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich. Please vote. [[11:14:40]] For-68 Sadly, you do not make the decision. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. This tool, as we can see, is ineffective in parliamentary control and needs further improvement in the Supreme Council Rules. Then we have questions from such national MPs. Viktor Razwadowski to the prosecutor of the Žitomir district, the head of the National Police Directorate in the Zitomir region, for ensuring a comprehensive and impartial investigation into criminal conduct and compliance with the requirements of criminal criminal law. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the replacement of five windows at the Aurturnin Public Education School I-III in the Lubarsky region of Žitomir district. Gregory Times to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the ineffective use and possible dissipation of district budget costs during the repair of the road to the local O26105 Marchensi-Forozna-Dužek-/N-03/Cernovetsec region. Sergey Larina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on an open-minded investigation of crimes committed with regard to members of the Council of Light and City Council VII, calling for political motives. Sergey Larina to the minister of justice of Ukraine for clarifying the status and social guarantees of persons who have been elected or approved by the relevant local councils in whose territory an antiterrorist operation is being carried out. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inability to conduct a proper investigation into criminal conduct by prosecutors of Kyiv. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to step up the investigation of crimes committed by the prison criminal "watching" Anisima (Anisimova J.O.) and the return to state property of illegally acquired property. Groups of National Deputies (Vasunika, Antonistak and others) Total 11 deputies) to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of the Lviv Regional Clinical Perinatal Centre. Helen Sotnik to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, on information on the closure of criminal conduct regarding the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Hmelnicke district of Viktor Krytor. People’s Deputies ( Dechtarczuk, Matkovsky, and others. A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on taking urgent action to halt the obstruction of legitimate economic activity in the Demidiv district of the Rivna region of an enterprise with foreign investments, the Limited Responsibilities Society. John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Kiev City Clinic No. 3 on the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care. Igor Kotwiecki to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of state housing programs. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the status of implementation of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of entrepreneurship in Ukraine and support for small and medium-sized businesses". Vladimir Ariev to the director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine regarding the delay in the pretrial investigation of a number of criminal conduct transferred to the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on preschool education. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of social security to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the recalculation of pensions for persons released from military service and some others. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of funds for the work of officials of the budgetary institutions of the Skolovsky, Turkovsky, Old Sambor district and the city of Sambora Lviv district. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the introduction of natural gas in units of energy in Ukraine. Andrija Nemirowski to the head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the legality and purpose of the use of budgetary resources. Andrija Nemirowski to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the origin of property. Ljubomir Zubak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the development and approval of the community's forward-looking plans. Yuri Babia until the temporary headship of the Ukrainian State Forest Resources Agency on the procedure for the implementation of the tree during the prewar period. Vladislav Buhareva is headed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine and the State Development Fund of individual territories for the implementation of the socio-economic programmes of the Labedin district of Sumska region in 2016. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of the surgical corps of the Suma Clinic, as well as the capital and current renovations of the premises of the institution. Jury Wozniak to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to include the disease “Expressed hyperplasia of fat tissue, extensive lymphatic malformation” in the List of Rare (orphan) Diseases that reduce the duration of life of patients or their disability and for whom there are recognized treatments. Alexander Zholobecko to the Director-General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert on the use of non-residential space, which is on the balance sheet of the Zorya-Mashproject DP for the extension of the preschool school number 70 "Dukok" of the city of Mikolajeva. Jury Odarchenka to the director of the municipal utility, "Manage Management of Herson's Water Management" to provide detailed information on the company's activities. Mr. Vasil Janicko, head of the Volodimirecki District State Administration of the Ravensk Region, head of the Volodimirecki District Council of the Ravensk Region, head of the Balakhowitz Rural Council of the Volodimirecki District of the Ravensk Region for a review of the general plan of the village of Maunichi Volodymirecki district of the Plain region, taking into account the public interest. Vasil Janicka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, the head of the Vladimirsky District Administration of the Plains Region, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "Equineobrennergo" on the use of measures for the proper supply of electricity in the village of Ivanchi Volodymyrecki district of the Plains region. Igor Goose to the head of Ukraine's fiscal service on the issue of the introduction of a cash bond for motor vehicles imported from abroad into Ukraine's customs territory in the form of temporary importation. Igor Goose to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to prevent the liquidation of the department of the Volin District Psychiatric Hospital No. 2 in Novovolinsk, Volinsk. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Bus Town Council of the Lviv Region, for the objective and impartial investigation of a fire in the city of Busk, Lvivi district, in memory of the local architecture of the Badeny Palace, which was transferred to the property of the territorial community of Busk from the IMF balance sheet. Michael Bondar to the prosecutor of the Lviv district, temporarily acting as the head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region for the analysis of the criminogenic situation, the investigation of crimes, the protection of public order in Brodivsky, Buski, Kamyanka-Buzkom, Radehivsk district of the Lviv region. Jury Bublika to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice on the unlawful conduct of the head of the Shevchenkov District Court of Poltava, Alexander Strukov, the commission of criminal offences involving bodily harm, the presence of corruption in the prosecution of Judge Larissa Golnik and the inciting her to make unjust decisions, to disobey standards of conduct and to undermine public confidence in the court. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the results of the examination of materials by a specialised scientist of the D35 Council. 052.11 National University of Lviv Polytechnics, June 7, 2016. Hennady Chekita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper state of housing and utilities in Odessa. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of the operation of the Vatutin region. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities with regard to the transfer to a balance in the operational administration of the National Institute of Scientific and Scientific Research of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to the Lviv National Medical University of Danil Galitzki for the purpose of improving educational, scientific and medical prevention work. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the application by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the raiding methods of the state-owned enterprise "Specialized Health Part No18" for the purpose of joining the State Health Centre. Alexia Lensky to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the illegal activities of the Ukrzalznica leadership, which violates Ukrainian legislation, social rights and employee guarantees, and implements corruption schemes by forcing the formation of pseudovoluntary health insurance in an insurance company. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the catastrophic state of the road in the city of Žitomir, reporting on the targeted use of funds allocated from the Ukrainian State Budget for the repair of road cover in the region in 2015-2016. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the payment of pensions of Nazaruk Anastasia Maximovni and Nivčík Vasil Vasilovitch according to the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the payment of annual one-time aid to disabled people in the Republic of Afghanistan and the lack of funding for sanatorium treatment. Tetjana Ostrikov to the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine about the sums received for gas for the population. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of court decisions on recalculations and payments in accordance with the requirements of articles 37, 39, 51 and other Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, approved after January 1, 13. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for a proper examination of criminal cases committed by illegal logging in Žitomirščina. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the abuse by officials of fraud by the money of investors in the construction of the Golden Bank CD. Vasil Guljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the shore-building work in the area of individual housing on the street of the Primorska and apartment housing building of the area No. 9 of the city of Black Sea Odessa. Mikoli Kadikala to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the misconduct of the officers of the Investigation Department of the High Town Police Department of the National Police Department in the Kyiv region. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the assignment of a separate code for the indicative classification of local budget expenditure for labour and social protection bodies of the people of the Tachyov District State Administration of the Zakarpat region. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration for Unsubstantial Action by Individual Officials of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, which is the result of the delay in the transfer of premises belonging to the State Training Centre "Kharkovi District Training Centre for the preparation, retraining and upgrading of agro-industrial personnel" and is not being used for the purpose of establishing a educational institution, which is highly needed by the local community of the townships of the Harkovi district of Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies (Guljava, Iluka and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to Cabinet Order No.1156 of 30 December 2015 in the part of the State budget of the net revenue of state-owned enterprises and their mergers. Oleg Musia to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the prevention of illegal interference by law enforcement officials in business activities. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to check information on the intentions of the management of the Odessa State Academy of Construction and Architecture to build a recreational area where the Academy's Training Centre is located. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the violation of the valid requirements of the appointment procedure as Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Vitalia Barwinenka to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to verify the violation of the requirements of legislation by Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Lindchevsky Alexander Vladimirovich. Sergey Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the improper investigation of the case of the abuse of office by officials of the Ukrainian State Emergency Service. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of a pension and immediate provision at the expense of the state funds by hearing aid for the liquidation of the accident in CHAES and the category, the invalidity of the war of the third group. Vladimir Litvina, head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Zitomir District State Administration on the rule of law in the settlement of the housing issue. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the extension of investigation into the dumping of chemicals in the village of Ohmatov, Jaskow district, Cherkas region. John Rybak, head of the Montenegrin District Administration, head of the Regional Council of Montenegro, head of the Putil District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region, on the use of urgent measures to prevent debt from paying salaries to the employees of the Putil Central District Hospital in the region of Czerniewice. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Administration, head of the district administration of Kitzman district administration of the region, head of the Kitzman District Council of the Cherniewsky region for the provision of assistance in the promotion of disability and the general illness group of the citizen of Stepan Doubus. Vitalia Gudzenka is headed by the Kyiv District State Administration to include in the list of social objects for 2017 the Voddar Public Education School No. 1 of the Voddar Region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to head the Kyiv District State Administration for inclusion in the list of social sites for 2017, Tetius School of Public Education, I-II, graduated from the 3rd Tetius Region of Kiev. Alexia Dustenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the project New Ukrainian School and Integration of School Courses in Ukrainian Language and Literature and Foreign Literature. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of gasification in the Guliapil region of Zaporozhye. Alexander Suprunenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the construction of the left-hand road solution of the Darnicki Railway and Automobile bridge crossing in Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for the reconstruction of the preschool facility in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. The Gennady of Krivoschi to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director General of the Ucrobanprom State Concert for the Control of the Implementation of the DK "Ucroborprom" in the Person of the Ukrainian Aviation Company, D-30KP, D-30KP-2, Il-76 aircraft and their components. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on ensuring compliance with the requirements of legality, completeness, publicity, and reasonableness of the terms of a criminal offence. Roman Semenha to the temporary duty of head of the National Police of Ukraine to intensify criminal investigation. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the appeal of the Director of the Communion Enterprise of the Nižin Water Supply Management Company of the Lower Town Council of the Chernig region. Alexander Kodola to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying state of public and district roads located in the Chernigiv region. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent action by the Ministry of Health to improve effective cooperation with the Ukrainian Red Cross and to prevent ineffective and opaque use of public budget funds. Sergey Melnika to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Kistion for the establishment of gas accounting counters. Ostapa Edna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. Mr. Mikoli Veličković to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the cooperation agreement between Pat "Ukrzaliznica" and Naftagazstrah, which belongs to Lieutenant Viktor Yanukovic. Oleg Petrenko to the finance minister of Ukraine about the size of the state lottery. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgency of investigating the attack on the MP of the Mikolayevsk Region from the Political Party of the "Oppositional Block" of Larissa Wesselovsk, which was committed on November 14, 2016, and on the responsibility of the guilty. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Suma District State Administration to ensure compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of gas accounting devices at the expense of gas distribution companies to consumers in Suma and Suma County. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the previous payment for electricity consumption and the automatic disconnection of the consumer entrepreneur in the absence of payment. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of water tariffs in the city of Fastyu Kyiv region due to its unsatisfactory quality and amendments to the decision of the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities from March 10, 2016 No 302. Rustlan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the head of the Kyiv District Council, the Fastew City Head, on the delivery of the results of the work of the working group on the issue of the unlawful disconnection of the residents of the city of Fasts from the supply of electricity to the PAT "Kivoblanergo", created by the Kyiv District State Administration. Vadim Sidorczuk, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the systematic disregard of the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, of requests by the Ukrainian National Deputy for State financial control over the use and conservation of state financial resources in individual departments of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health for Dissatisfaction with the response of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to the MP’s request for special medical care for children with phenylketonuria. Romana Macola to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for funding from the State budget of the Hadjibei Children's Specialized Clinic. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent adoption of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the redistribution of certain public budget expenditure envisioned by the Ministry of Health for 2016. Igor Kotwiecki, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to direct citizens to treatment abroad. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the use of measures to increase the level of pay for health workers. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the practical steps taken by the Government to restore the industrial potential of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Kolesnikova, Pavlova, Galchenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of educational and scientific institutions in Ukraine. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the modernisation of pension payments. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the terms of payment of a subsidy for the acquisition of compressed gas, solid and liquid spent fuel for the population. John Melniczuk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to have access and free preschool education. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to allocate land to the Kyiv Municipal Academic Theatre of Dolls (on the Left Bank of Dniper). Alexander Brigintz until he was temporarily appointed Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the provision of assistance to Novitsky Wiacheslav, a DPP patient. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to continue financing of the State Institute "Specialized (Special) Sanatorium "Arcadia" MOZ Ukraine at the expense of the state budget. Valentina Didić to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the restoration of the stable activities of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company and the resolution of the social problems that have arisen in the plant recently, as well as the removal of the causes that may lead to the bankruptcy of the company. Jurija Shapovalova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the protection of the interests of citizens of the city of Kremenczuk Poltava region, the lifting of the Order of Ukrazalnica since 4 November 2016 and the renewal of the schedule of train routes No 760 Kyiv-Kremenchuk, which took effect prior to the change. Sergia Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of pollution of Lake Kharjak in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Sergio Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of persons who committed criminal offences in the temporarily occupied territory of the ARC and the city of Sevastopol. Andrija Vadaturski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the use of the funds listed in the military section A1890 (Shirokolanov General Military Regiment) each month at the special expense of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Andrija Illenka, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Public Shareholders' Association on the poor health status of transportation on the narrow railway area of Vynogradi-Hmilnik. Andrija Illenka to the Kiev city head, head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Kyivgaz, for the establishment of individual gas counters in the housing units of the people of Kiev. Yuri Timoshenko to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for information. Jury Tymoshenko to the head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the proper implementation of State architectural and building control and supervision of the Administration of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Ivano-Frankowsk Region. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Lozov City Council on the abuse of the investigating department of the Lozov Police Department of the National Police Department of the Kharkiv Region and the Lozov Local Prosecutor's Office during the pretrial investigation of Criminal Investigation No. 12013220380002356 of 24 October 2013. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the financing of the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the ballet of the name Lysenka. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the DAC "The Bread of Ukraine". Oksana Korczynski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the conduct of an investigation into the status of head of 61 military mobile hospital, Lieutenant Colonel Kachurowski. Oksana Korczynski to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of the return of the land area of 286,79 hectares to the military area A0553. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the integration of the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine into the National Target Social Programme against TB for 2017 - 2021. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the conflict of interest in the deputy head of the National Bank of Rozkova Caterina Victoria in the exercise of prudential supervision over the activities of Pat "Platinum Bank", which could have an impact on the sound implementation of its powers, objectivity and impartiality of the decision-making process. Paul Rizanenka to the Director of the State Enterprise "United Mining Company", head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the convening of general meetings of members of the Society with limited responsibility "Restricted Titan-Magnium Combine" and the appointment of a new head of society. Jurya Pavlenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, for the unsatisfactory response of Minister of Social Policy Andrija Reva to the parliamentary request "On the accumulation of negative trends in the protection of children's rights that threaten Ukraine's national security". Jury Pavlenko and Sergey Larin to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for an impartial and prejudicial investigation into a crime committed in relation to a citizen of the Republic of Korea, Choi Young Gu. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the creation and functioning of a crisis centre in Kharkiv and a centre for the rehabilitation of victims of violence. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure of officials of the Ministry of Health and the State to provide services to Ukraine to the Government and the formal treatment of parliamentary requests. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to check conditions for the formation of payment receipts for central heating and water supply services with excess amounts. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the government of the public shareholders association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine on the non-admission of the commission of the bank for the payment of municipal services. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of part 2 of article 42 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Oleg Kulinić is the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the calculation and retirement of a member of the CHAES disaster. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to verify electronic declarations in personnel appointments. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for banning the entry into Ukraine of Russian artist Gorozija Levan Emzarovich. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, for the cessation of the activities of individual media that are engaged in subversive activities against Ukraine. Alexander Gurnjak of the village of Black Chemerovetsk district of Hmelnitsk Region for international duty in Czechoslovakia, to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Alexander Gerega to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the removal of the family of Vereschiński from the city of Dunaiwitsi of the Hmielnicke District of Constitutional Rights to land ownership. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the liberation of the captives. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the results of the pre-trial investigation of the Maydan case. Jury Solovya to the head of the President's Administration for the appointment of the honorary title "Deserved Ukrainian Agriculture Officer" Pupenek Vasil Petrovich. Jury Solovya to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the budget compensation for the added value of TOV Solar Carpathian. Igora Lucenka to the head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on violations of the rule of law and systematic failure to execute judicial decisions by the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Skuri district of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Dublika, Krivenka, Timchuka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the occupied post of head of the Corstoshov District State Administration of the Žitomir District of Vasil Kupriyczuk. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of special equipment for the PAT DAK "Roadways of Ukraine". Oxana Jurinec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of the implementation of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a loan under the conditions of related assistance. Andrija Shinkovič, who is temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the death of a newborn child as a result of antisocial and unprofessional medical reform. Andrija Shinkovič to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the protection of the rights of residents of the 30km nuclear power plant observation zone and amends the NCRECR Decision No.220 of 26 February 2015. Taras Batenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, to allocate funds to the full functioning of the Zoločovsky and Mikolai region medical institutions in the area of material and technical security. Sergio Vlasenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine for criminal activities involving financial equipment in Yanuković’s environment, amounting to more than $1 billion,200 million. Sergei Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the need for a reduction is not justified by corruption tariffs. Andrija Lozov to the city of Equinas regarding the improper use of disaster management measures in the city of Raven. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the investigating officer of the Berezan Department of the Ochakov Police Department of the Head of National Police in the Mikolaiiv region during the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct No. 1201550150000670. Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister for providing information on the reasons, quantity, volume, weight in the total number of contracts that have been made with enterprises and with natural persons entrepreneurs who are not taxpayers for the added value of providing goods and services for the needs of the Ministry of Defence. Savchenko's hopes for the Director-General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert regarding the existence of corruption risks and manifestations in the Ucrobornprom DC in connection with the work at the SPECTechnoExport concert "Spec" by Anton Sergiyyovich Pashinski, son of Pashinsky Sergey Volodymirovich. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Vinnick district government administration, Head of the Vinnick district council for the provision of insulin free-of-charge diabetes to citizens living in rural areas. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, Head of the National Commission for the National Markets of Financial Services, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Rector of the Lviv National University of John Frank, Rector of the Donetsk National University, Rector of the National Law University of Yaroslav Surogo, Rector of the National Law University of Kyiv National University, Taras Shevchenk, Rector of the National University of Odessa Legal Academy, Director of the Institute of State and the Rights of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for the inclusion in the list of persons to whom the Act of the Odesian Law extends. Yurya Bereza to the temporary duty of Chief of National Police in the Dnipropetrovsk Region regarding the lack of response of the employees of the Supreme Provost Police Department of the Dniprostrian Police Department of the Dnipropetrov region to the allegations of Seniv Volodymira Vasilovic and Mouha Valentina Ivanovna on the commission of a criminal offence. Yurya Bereza until his temporary duty as head of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrovsk Region as to the inaction of the Sofia Police Department and the Kamenska Police Department in the Dnipropetrovsk region in the theft of property that should have been used in the capital repair of street lighting in the area of the Vakulovska United Territorial Society. Jury Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of information on the requirement for independent non-State experts, which are part of the Committee for the appointment of directors of special economical interests and commissions in this committee, as well as on the procedure for the selection and approval of their candidates by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Juriya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the results of the restructuring of social insurance funds. Taras Batenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, State Employment Service for the purpose of transferring the Zoločov Employment Centre to the city of Broda Lviv. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of the status of the All-Ukrainian Military Patriotic Game of the Unscrupulous. To the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Paul Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Temporary Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, on the provision of housing for displaced citizens from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Rybalka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian National Police, for the possible capture of the administrative building of the Gulf Village Council of Odessa and forging seals and documents. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the housing of families of deceased members of the Cherkas region who participated directly in the anti-terrorist operation, as well as the disabled of the I-II group of military personnel who participated in the operation and needed improvements in living conditions, and in Ukraine as a whole. Victor Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the spending of state funds on the purchase of equipment for elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2012. Sergija Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the procedures for the collection of subsidies for reimbursement of housing and utility costs. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to consider and take effective measures to address collectively the residents of 59-A on the street of the Academy of Williams of Kiev, Odessa, on the verification of the replanation and use of the building's basement not for the purpose of establishing inappropriate sanitation conditions for the safe residence of residents of a multi-family building and on the examination of the relevant decisions of the competent authorities, taking into account the position of residents of this house. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the teaching corps of the National University of Cherka. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the implementation of the Regional Target Program "The Innovation Schools of Cherkaščina". Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Heratchenko and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of local budgets in the areas of Donetské and Lugansk, where public authorities do not exercise their authority. Victoria Sumar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the establishment of the personalities of the national deputies who visit the territory of the Aggressor State. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper provision of certification bodies for the individual approval of wheeled vehicles, parts and equipment. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Tucks, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on issues related to the certification of means of transport. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to develop a legal instrument on the distribution and transfer mechanism of property on the regional council balance sheet to the property of newly created united territorial communities. Ruslan Demczak to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Vinnicaoblanergo, director of the Lipovetske Power Plants for the provision of electricity to the regulatory voltage in houses and apartments located on the streets of Čkalova and Osipenka in the village of the city type of Turbos. Jury Lewchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal responsibility of persons responsible for the illegal construction of a commercial and entertainment complex with underground commercial and technical facilities at the intersection of the Obolonian Prospect and the streets of Heroov Dniper in the Obolon district of Kiev. Jury Levchenk to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations on the commission of a criminal offence by the Kyiv City Chief of Crime, provided for in article 2, paragraph 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Olega Petrenka to the head of the Cerka District Council on the need to cancel the decision of the Cerkas District Council of February 19, 2016 No3-46/VII. Vladimir Ariev to Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the use of urgent measures to protect citizens from misconduct and to commit service crimes by officials of the State Border Service and notaries. We finished reading the queries. The Supreme Council's apparatus received a request from National Deputy Igor Shurma for his dissatisfaction with an answer to a parliamentary request. In accordance with the Rules, I invite Igor Shurma, a national deputy, to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u74	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Why they are not in a hurry to accept Ukraine as a member of the European community. Because it is obvious that we do not respect our national wealth. There is a total destruction of forests in the country, and massive logging of wood continues. Carpathian slopes are unrecognizable. The amount of illegal logging in the first half of the 16th year grew by 36 percent. I went to Prime Minister Groysman of Ukraine, Attorney General Lucenk, about the illegal actions of officials of the Skolov military forest sector, Ivano-Frankov military LPC, aimed at cutting down wood in the Carpathians, destroying flora and fauna. What made me do that? Before that, I had been asked by the Ministry of Defense about very dangerous information, which speaks of the mass production of forests directly by the structures subordinated to the Ministry of Defence. I got the answer that the two woodscaps that work on illegal logging in Korczynski and Korstosów Forestry in the Skolov Military Forestry, they're fine there, it's all done with the permission of the relevant structures that are subordinated to the Lviv District Administration, and it all agrees with the scientific relevant institutions. At the same time, according to the General Prosecutor’s Office, information was provided to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations into illegal logging in the territory of Korchinsky and Korostišov’s Forestry of the Skolov Military Forest, resulting in damage. What's going on? It is either the minister of the national MP who is knowingly writing lies, or please call him responsible, or he has clerics who mislead him. Lviv’s forestry activity is under the constant attention of the Ministry of Defense, out of a letter. But on November 9, under the leadership of the military prosecutor of the Western region, a meeting took place, where most of the violations of the established ones are the abuse of military forest officials and damage to the environment. The introduction of a moratorium on felling unprocessed wood in the form of a law did not solve this problem; it is even worse. They started chopping like they did on the last day. Not only are defence officials being cut off but they are also cutting off the local population. People good, more than that, we're going to destroy the climate, we're destroying the Carpathians, more than that, it's corruption. There is only one question: If this corruption looks foreign, then the European Union, which is fighting corruption, is buying it. How long will this last? Please consider my next address to the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u75	Thank you. We have one more announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry into the parliamentary group "Party Rebirth" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Missik Vladimir Juryovich. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. Then we'll continue our work and perform in "The Different."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'd like you to prepare for the recording of the "Variance" performance. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Anton Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u77	Dear, dear voters. Anton Kisse, 142nd constituency, Odessa District, South Odessa District, Ukrainian Bessarabia. Regrettably, it was not possible to ask the Cabinet of Ministers and Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman of Ukraine, but decided to address and bring to light the problems and challenges that concerned the voters of my constituency. The first thing I want to focus on is, first of all, the continuation of the construction of the Odessa-Reni road. Construction is going on, and we are helping, supporting and grateful to both the Government and to help those who organize this work. At the same time, however, the biggest problem is that more vehicles are moving today. And if all of this continues in those areas where work has already been done and those sites have already been put into service, the destruction of the road will begin quietly. I personally appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take urgent measures to establish appropriate weight complexes so that road freight transport can be monitored. If we don't, all this titanic work will go to waste. I am asking for the understanding, support and solution of this important public issue. And a second issue that concerns us, especially the region of Bolgrad. And all the documents submitted by the Bolgrad region public, the district councils, requested that the same Balgrad region, where more than 70,000 people live in the Balgrad region, ethnic Bulgarians, Ukrainian Bulgarians, Ukrainian gagauzas and Ukrainian Albanians, be able to maintain the city of Balgrad and the area as it is. We have received such approval from the Office of the President, from the Cabinet of Ministers, that this issue will be taken into account in the implementation of administrative and territorial reform and will not be a problem. However, there is a gradual withdrawal of all organizations and enterprises that serve the population today, I mean both the militia and statistics and registration services, and they are transferred to other settlements, in particular Ishmael, and so they simply destroy the Bolgrad and the Bolgrad region. I request, first of all, the Cabinet of Ministers to the Office of the President in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u78	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u79	To ensure that the promises made to us in writing are fulfilled and that these services are returned to Balgrad and the Balgrad region begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u81	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, all the latest developments around the Ministry of Health have demonstrated its complete degradation. As a result of unprofessional industry management, the next year the World Health Organization predicts that we will have an epidemic of bark this time. And I'll tell you that we already have an epidemic of no less dangerous disease, and it's called Ukrainian Deficit acquired syndrome, it means human beings. Can’t anyone see that foreigners are massively failing reforms in Ukraine, especially in the field of health care? Overseas experts are poorly oriented in Ukrainian health care, do not imagine the social realities of our lives, do not have sufficient education, experience, or skills, since they receive citizenship at last before their assignment. Another example of an adventurous decision by the Ministry's management was the task of reorganizing the state-owned enterprise "Specialized Health Part 18" by the Ministry of Health. Which includes the termination of the health care facility by joining the public health centre, which now rents 15 percent of the medical community. In fact, it's about acquiring a building, destroying the medical services of people working in industry. Part 18 is already a reformed health care facility that serves more than 300 companies, some of which produce special products for the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. The company pays all taxes and uses no money. Medical personnel have permanent wages and jobs. Such actions by the Ministry of Health in the medical community are deemed to be no different from that of the invaders. This story of the dissension clinic has a long history. According to workers, officials have long tried to absorb their native medicine. It is also worth mentioning a sad history with the state institution of the Lviv Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health. On the contrary. For almost six months, the Ministry of Health officials have deliberately prolonged their consideration of the issue of the transfer to balance at the operational management of the National Medical University of Lviv, Danila Galicki, in order to improve educational, scientific and preventive work. The transfer of the institution to the balance sheet of the university will allow not only to preserve the scientific potential of the institution, but also to create conditions for strengthening it through fruitful work. I demand to stop this avatar and allow a specialized section, a medicate to continue to work and save jobs. At the same time, I demand that the Government consider the issue of the transfer to a balance in the operational administration of the Lviv National Medical University of the State Institute of Lviv Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health for the Development of Medical Science in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u82	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. It's been six minutes, he's been given the word of two deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u83	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you of the work that your worthy representatives are doing, the MPs of the Radical Party in Parliament. From the very morning we are in full stock, our faction has been in court, a court-martial of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, where a court has tried for nearly six months against the requirements of the law to review our motion to annul the decision of the government and the National Commission on the regulation of the municipal services market for tariff increases and the setting of dragon gas prices. The law provides for a month’s deadline for our case, and the court has been considering it for six months. Why? On various occasions, they're simply afraid to make decisions, and they're delaying the court's deliberations with the Ministry's representatives, the Cabinet of Ministers, Naftogazu and other authorized bodies. If you have a position, if tariffs are justified, if you take money from people correctly and not grab them, why can't you prove it for six months? So I demand that the court immediately put an end to the burden, immediately in accordance with the legislative requirements, to consider our lawsuit, to satisfy it, and to help us stop the looting of the Ukrainians who are running today’s government. After this lawsuit is settled, the next step is the recalculation of tariffs. And all the money that's been paid has to be paid back to the Ukrainians. This is the policy of the Radical Party. We're not gonna let people get robbed, and all the money you've stolen, we're gonna do everything we can to get them back. Next, our demand for government remains unchanged. Now people get shock payments, the vast majority of Ukrainians can't pay them, because it turned out to be a bluff to the government's promise to compensate Ukrainians for the cost of high tariffs. Once again we see confirmation of the famous Ukrainian proverb: the promise of a baby girl, and the fool is joy. The Radical Party faction, our powerful political power, will not allow either the President or the government or the parliamentary majority to hold Ukrainians for fools. That's why we're asking the government to reverse the social standard of gas consumption -- a thousand 200 cubes in the heating season and double it, because for a thousand 200 cubes in the village, you won't heat a dog's booth. I'm not talking about single pensioners sitting alone in apartments anymore. I hope that these requirements will be met if not - wait for strong demands from citizens. Next, yesterday, the Polish Parliament, at the initiative of President Poland, reduced the retirement age for women. Poles reduce their retirement age, and our president, give him God’s health, but he has committed our law that Ukrainian women should retire at the age of 55. We believe that President Poroshenko has made a huge mistake, if not more, a crime against Ukrainian women, without their ability to retire. That is why I demand that the Head of Parliament immediately introduce the law into the Hall and overcome the President's veto and allow Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. Another of our laws is free medicine for pensioners. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians die because they cannot get medical and medical treatment in time. We know how to save the lives of Ukrainians. Why can't they buy drugs? Because these drugs are 5, 10 times more expensive than in neighboring countries. So we demand that the government, the power to provide pensioners with free medicine every month for pressure, for headaches, for diabetes, for cold diseases to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. To make sure that people who have heartache are able to take the pill on time and to make their children and grandchildren happy rather than die on time. I demand that the parliamentary majority, the government and the President support our law, and provide our pensioners with free medicine. Third thing I'd like to pay attention to. This week, Parliament, almost 300 votes, voted in applause to compensate investors for the loss of the Mikhailinski Bank. The price of the question is 1 billion 200 million dollars. You applaud what you voted for. All I have is a question: Who's gonna pay for it? And who will be responsible for this? One billion 200 million dollars in the budget has to be paid for the bank being destroyed by Gontarov for robbing these banks, 80 banks being destroyed. From the state budget, almost 100 billion dollars were paid for destroyed banks through the Deposit Guarantee Fund alone this year. Why? That's why the President is covering the policy of the Hontareva because Vroslin, head of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, is all of them in a corrupt relationship. Banks have squandered, the property of legal persons has been robbed, and private individuals have been paid off from the state budget. That is, the Ukrainians pay for the corruption of power. From this high rostrum, I appeal to President Prashenko to immediately file here for the release of Hontareva from the post of head of the National Bank and to hold her responsible for the theft of billions of funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u84	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kodolu. There's been a mistake, I'm sorry. Excuse me, National Deputy Antonistak. You're next, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u85	National Deputy of Ukraine, Andri Antonishtak, political power of People's Control. Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! I am speaking to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Grisak Vasil Sergiyovich. During recent years, the issue of the detection of fiscal, property and property violations has remained valid. In the process of exercising parliamentary powers, I became aware of the facts of the waste of state property on a particularly large scale. It is a plot of about 60 hectares [60 ha] of land to be looted: the Lviv region, the Pustomatov region, the village of Murovane, which under the guise of secrecy on the right of constant use was on the balance of the Lviv branch of the Concert Radio, Radio and Television. By order of the Ukrainian Security Service to approve a collection of information constituting a state secret to information constituting a state secret, including information on Ukrainian Radio, Radio and Television Concerts, its structural units. Today, according to Ukraine’s public cadastre map, it has been illegally transferred to the private property of third parties about three hectares [3 ha] of land of government property. Such actions have changed the form of ownership of property that has been given to an enterprise for the permanent use of government property in a private property area. In recent years, I suspect that an organized group of officials in the Lviv branch of Concert Radio, Radio and Television, according to their criminal intent, has been illegally estranged into the legalization for the benefit and benefit of third parties about three hectares [3 ha] of land that have been in constant use by the Lviv branch of the Concert Radio. In this way, likely government officials by way of a criminal position have wasted state property on a particularly large scale, causing material damage to the State. I personally, in the name of the prosecutor of the Lviv district of Kwiatkovsky, have made a parliamentary appeal regarding the discovery of criminal conduct in connection with the above-mentioned facts of the "exploitation of state property". In the face of Russia's open military aggression, in fact during war, illegal and criminal, it is treasonous to rob our state. So our main task is to detect and destroy the pyramid of personal convenience and profit in public enterprises in a timely manner. In view of the foregoing, I ask you to respond urgently to a parliamentary request, to take under your personal control the issue of ensuring full and impartial criminal investigation. I'm talking to all the national MPs. Pay attention to yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u86	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u87	Maybe you have the same plots of land under the heading "secret." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u88	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia. Yes, please, National Deputy Soloway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u89	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. My fellow Members, I believe that today the main issues that we need to discuss in the Ukrainian Parliament should primarily relate to the economy, economic growth, the growth of gross domestic product, the increase in jobs and investment in the Ukrainian state. In the near future, it is these issues that must become a mines of the Ukrainian idea, and it is these issues that the Ukrainian Parliament must work primarily on. One such issue that most countries associated with their economic growth was the restoration of infrastructure. Even if we look at what major mosques and slogans President Trump came to power in America today, this is a matter of developing infrastructure and government spending on infrastructure, and above all in building roads. If we look at the Ukrainian state today, I think one of the main issues that need to be addressed is the unsatisfying state of Ukrainian roads. This is not only a matter of the fact that Ukrainian citizens cannot move the country properly, but it is a question of economic growth. And so I want to say that the main costs, the capital costs in the near future, the Ukrainian state is obliged and must spend on infrastructure restoration, the restoration and construction of Ukrainian highways, Ukrainian roads, the construction of at least one in Ukraine of Ukrainian highways. I could say, for example, a bright thing that shows how 1 bracelet that invests in the road gives 5 dollars to return to the Ukrainian budget. This is the R-24 road, which was restored in 2015-2016 within the Kosovo, the Supreme Region. And already today we see dozens of new hotel complexes that are being built along this road. Already today we see thousands, if not thousands, of new jobs created there. We are already seeing an increase of at least 30 percent in local budgets. And so it's very good that yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted on the historical package of legislation on regulation of the road sector. This package has allowed doubles since 2018 and triples public expenditure in road construction since 2019. I consider this to be an extremely important step taken by the Ukrainian Parliament this week. And I call upon you, my dear colleagues, to increase the practical laws that encourage the development of the economy that stimulate the jobs that work for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u90	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, you and I in this House of Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have passed a law on a moratorium on the removal from Ukraine of unprocessed roundwood. How much we fought for him with Oleg Lášk, with our fellow thinkers not only from the faction of the Radical Party but from all factions! There are deputies everywhere who understand that Ukraine needs industrial development, jobs, investment. Look what's happening today. The government is once again trying to slyly reverse this moratorium on the export of roundwood. I want to inform you about the outcome of this nine-month moratorium in 2016, according to official data from the State Fiscal Service. Look, the volume of industrial production has dropped by 4 percent per country. And in the area that you and I started to support, it increased by 15 to 16 percent. Look at the export. Overall exports decreased by 9 percent in nine months. Our woodworking industry has grown by 11 percent thanks to the moratorium. Look at the taxes paid. Plus 17 percent of the U.S. government budget! What other area of the Ukrainian economy shows such results? Look at the volume of imports of wood presses. That's what development is all about. There was no such investment in woodworking for a year. Investments have tripled. Should the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government fight for this? And the Ukrainian government is trying to destroy it today. I would like to point out that, instead of fostering these Compradorian plans to abolish the moratorium on the export of roundwood, the Ukrainian government must today stand by commercial diplomacy before the European Union for this temporary measure that we were forced to take. That's the first one. The other one. Take control of the country's economic borders, overcome the violent smuggling that exists in Ukraine today, and destroy our budget. Including the smuggling of roundwood. Over the past five years, the smuggling of roundwood has exceeded a billion dollars in the United States. And today this impeccable government wants to sell Ukrainian interests for 600 million euros in credit from the European Union. This is totally unacceptable! The third step should be the adoption of legislation on the internal market of wood in Ukraine, its liberalisation and the destruction of corruption. Today, the Radical Party faction is actively working on it, along with fellow thinkers from other factions. Four. Adopt bills 2617 and 2618 on the cost of importing woodworking equipment. And finally, the fifth. An integrated reform of Ukrainian woodworking to bring us to a European level of prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u92	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u93	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, this week was indeed very important to our country. And I want to thank the entire Ukrainian people for not having participated in the plan to destabilize the country, which organized some political forces, namely: “Batakovščina” headed by Yulia Timoshenko, “The Opposition Block” and Misha Shatunishvili, who is Mikhail Saakashvili, the person who is organizing today, is telling everyone much about the results of reforms. In fact, in a year and a half, he ran off and dumped Odessa, walked away, left nothing behind, and left nothing but ruins. In fact, today the Odessa region looks like a natural disaster. I say I call him Tornado Mouse. We have damaged the Morvoxal, and we have destroyed the monuments of the Odessa architecture: the Masonic House of the Prince, the Dox of Genoa. We have completely destroyed the government's vertical in the Odessa region. He left one in his wake, 26-year-old Solomia Bobrowski, and no one else is in the machine. In the Odessa region, the largest country with the largest agricultural sector in the country has been dismantled by the Department of Agriculture and has joined the Office of the Environment. Well, it's, you know, it's kind of hard to comment on. The Odessa region has become the worst country in the country in terms of subsidies. It's just that people are having a hard time surviving today. And in his words, he tells us how to fight for the Ukrainians and help that retired old woman. Thus, an old pensioner in the Odessa region cannot form a subsidy because the social protection system is completely destroyed. For the second time in the “hour of questions for the Government”, I am asking the Minister of Social Policy, Reve, and the Prime Minister to assist today. And, thank God, they responded. And today a special group from Kiev is going to Odessa to help people get subsidies. Well, it's never been like this. It's ridiculous. Such destruction and destruction of public administration are not remembered or remembered. So today, when this man, this Tornado, has now moved to Kiev for his gastrolas, and as he continues to tell you, across all regions of the country, I am addressing you, the people of Chernigov, he will come to you, Lviv – to you, Vinnica – to you. He'll say, "You know, Chernigov is a unique city, they're unique people. I've traveled all over the world, but a town like Chernigov, Vinnica, Žmerenka, Lviv, I've never seen. Never. This is a city only once a hundred years old." And so when he hangs all this from your ears, please remember Odessa, remember how he dealt with our region, how he really stroked it and dumped it, and today we don't even know where to find him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u94	I now invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kodolu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u95	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, we continue to defend the national interests of our nation, but as majority national MPs, we do not forget and defend the interests of the specific territories in which we were chosen. That's why I want to draw attention to the situation in the town of Nizhin, and specifically to the utility company "Nižin water supply management." This is a strategic enterprise that is currently serving the 70th city of Nizhin. And because of the inadequacy of the actual cost of central water supply and water supply to existing tariffs, the utility today was threatened by bankruptcy, and the city of Nizhin, which I represent in Parliament, is under threat of a general criminal collapse. Because of the State’s improper performance of its obligations regarding timeliness. The company’s timely compensation for the benefits and subsidies resulted in a deficit in circulation costs, which today does not allow for timely settlement of its liabilities. In line with the arrangement for the assignment and allocation of subsidies to the population, the amount of costs, benefits and subsidies for the enterprise today amounts to 1 million 404,000 dollars or more than 60 percent of the total income of the entire enterprise from the provision of these services. Thus, timeless government budget calculations lead to a complex financial situation and social tensions not only for the business but also for the city as a whole. The company cannot pay the employees' wages at the same time today, it cannot buy fuel-oil materials, pay taxes and payments. On November 1st, the government’s debt to the relief company is already more than one and a half million dollars. And I think if the utility can't work, then the whole city can run out of water, and that's 70,000 people, these are businesses, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, and it's really going to be a disaster. That's why I'm paying attention today to the Cabinet of Ministers, personally Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, Minister of Finance. I had already received parliamentary inquiries, and today they were sounding about the use of measures to ensure timely and complete payment of benefits and subsidies to this utility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u96	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Oleg Osuhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We will be celebrating the third anniversary of November 21st since the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. And the authorities, the law enforcement authorities always want to demonstrate that there's an investigation into the shooting of the Celestial 100 and the shooting of Maidan, but in fact, we see full sabotage, full of it, that there's no investigation. And so we see that the Berkuts are released: first 10 Berkuts, then the Gardener, the day after that, the Berkuts were released under house arrest, and they could hide somewhere in Russia, or in Crimea. And we see the Attorney General's Office now wants to address the International Criminal Court in The Hague, and it's like the Maydan case is being referred there. But the Attorney General's Office must first and foremost bring Midan here and punish the guilty -- both the law enforcement, and the judges, and the prosecutors. And accordingly, if we don't have those criminals, and we have the Law on Condemnation, and we have the law on Condemnation, and we have the law on Condemnation, and we have the law on Condemnation, and we have the law on Condemnation, and then on extradition to bring them back from Europe, somewhere in the United States, from Russia back to Ukraine. We are now seeing that the prosecution, the law enforcement agencies are pursuing not the criminals who led Ukraine to war and loss, particularly Donbassa and Crimea, and we are now seeing that prisons, the S.I.S.A., are overcrowded with our Russian-Ukrainian volunteers, so this is not acceptable. We are seeing a huge sabotage in the Maydan case, especially in the courts, particularly the Righteous Court, where 30 judges who can judge cases, ten who can handle criminal cases, all judges are dismissed. Parents who have suffered injuries in Maidan come here dozens of times. Accordingly, a week ago, on our anti-corruption committee, we heard lawyers, the Heroes of the Celestial 100 and the victims, and they make it clear that there is a criminal group that is sabotaging. Accordingly, today I have asked the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police to investigate, in fact, the facts of the sabotage in which both the prosecution and the judges and the lawyers of the Berkuts are taking place. And clearly, I also went to the Anti-Corruption Committee, and I was supported by a meeting of two committees, anti-corruption and law enforcement, and to invite representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u98	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u99	The Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as the National Police. And our anti-corruption committee is initiating the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, and we should be here with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u100	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u101	You should be here to set up a temporary investigation commission and bring all those things to an end so that those bastards will be punished who shot the heroes of the Celestial 100. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u102	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vitali Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u103	Dear friends, yesterday we spent infrastructure day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I want to immediately thank all those who have joined in and supported those right laws for our country and directly for the road sector. We passed a bill yesterday on the creation of a road fund. We adopted an electronic ticket bill yesterday, and I especially wanted to thank Igor Vasyunika, Oksani Jurinec. But there were bills that we didn't have, and there were those that we sent to the committee for work. I'm going to talk about Bills 4660 and 4661. For a year now, the Supreme Council has been unable to adopt reform laws on the weight control of our highways that have been introduced by members of the People's Front to implement the initiatives of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. The delay is due to pressure from the antisocial lobby of motorists and grain traders, and they want to continue smashing roads with loaded coaches for their own business. I ask every elector when I meet with my deputy to ask if he has not voted in favour of such a proper bill, why he only promises to improve Ukraine's highways in words. Next. Dear friends, I would like to say that our faction is concerned that yesterday we were unable to put into order a daily bill of personal sanctions against Yanukovic and his followers. It's a disgrace! Soon we're going to have the anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution, and we should do it and show the whole country that we don't stand back from what we talked about in Maidan. And finally, I want to say the good news that our representative in Kabmin, Sport Minister Igor Zhdanov, has made about what he's promised and made payments to the Rio Paralympics in four to six months and pay off the appeal to both them and their coaches. This shows that the People's Front and its representatives are working, not populism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u104	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u105	Good afternoon, colleagues, good afternoon, Ukrainians. I hope he'll really be good, despite the fact that the news isn't very good. What am I trying to say? I asked myself this morning, and why did we forget such a disgraceful page in Ukrainian history as the death of Guy Gongadze? In general, why do people -- and Ukrainian Truth, and Adepts themselves, the famous anti-corruption adepts who sit next to us in this room, not raise that question? That's very interesting! Why are they, the ones who came here because of Ukrainian Truth, and because of George's death, they don't even ask who the buyers of his murder are? Why are they pleased that the Ripper is sitting, but he said that until the customers are known, he would not agree with what he is behind bars? It's a gratis killer. And who ordered this murder? What's wrong with Melnick's tapes, is it true or not? What about Kuchma? I want to know if Leonid Kuchma, who was the President of Ukraine, was really the contracting party to the murder of George Gongadze? Is that all I care about? Is it just Miroslavi Gongadze or just a few other people? Can we answer questions without which there will be no future? First we keep quiet about who the gunmen of the Gongadze murder are, then we keep quiet about the murder of Sheremet, we keep quiet. Where are the answers to who gave the orders to kill the Celestial 100? Where are these people? Each time, more and more questions. There are more and more questions, and there are no answers. I want to officially address the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. I want to speak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Arsen-Awakov. In order for them to answer, are there really any questions about who is the contracting party to Gongadze’s murder? That's the first one. And I'm asking you to consider this as my question of parliament, under the transcript. Secondly, I can't understand why the well-known anti-corruption officials of Ukraine are silent about this issue. And that's an ethical question for my colleagues, which I hope they'll answer, not in Facebook, but here next week. So once again, a very famous artist named Goya said: "The dream of reason gives birth to a monster." We don't have to sleep because the monster's here. We need to answer the questions we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vladislav Sevrukov. I won't. Then I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u107	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I wanted to raise one important question today, which has become widely resonant in social networks this week, but I think it's a very revealing symptom of what's happening, especially in the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, and in general in today's Ukrainian government. It turns out that the director of the department, general, secondary and pre-school education of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, such as Yuri Grigorovich Kononenko, sent a letter to local education authorities on 24 October 2016 to conduct a survey among the students of the 7-11 classes. In fact, it would seem nothing special, but then it turned out to be a survey. Dear colleagues, listen, this is what our schoolchildren are about to be put in their heads, and it turns out it's not the first year. For example, there are such questions, quoted in the original language. By the way, it's symptomatic that all the surveys in Russian are done. "I would like Ukraine to join the alliance with Russia?" - that's the question. And we're offering eight choices of answer to that question to the schoolchildren, 7-11. "Ukrainian and Russian cultures are exactly the same?" – 7 answers to that question. "Ukraine and Russia must be one state?" – 7 answers to that question. There are other questions: "Ukraine becomes part of a large union that includes Russia? Ukraine is falling apart into several separate States?" Children in school, schoolmates, are invited to answer such questions. I've already got my question for the S.B.I. And in fact, we and the "liberators" wrote them a speech today, as well as to the minister of education: what's going on? What's going on at the Ministry of Education? What's that? Is it open sabotage, harmfulness, brainwashing, propaganda during war, information diversion? What's going on? How will we raise a generation of Ukrainian youths if they are given such tests at school? What is the purpose of these tests: to question the existence of the Ukrainian State, to put Ukraine's collapse on several states, as was written here? We demand that the Ukrainian Security Service investigate immediately all officials involved in this disgrace. We demand that this vachanal finally cease to exist, so that the Ukrainian authorities will finally be cleansed of the Moscow agency that sits there, and which has already lifted its head up -- and openly pursues anti-Ukrainian anti-government policies. How much longer are we going to put up with this?Oh, my God! How many more Ukrainians have to die on the front to finally suppress Moscow's nests here, in places to stop leading anti-Ukrainian politics?Oh, my God! Please, Security Service, answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u108	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u109	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. Oleg Musei, majority MP, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town, National Control political party. I would like to make an official request to the President of Ukraine, to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the totally unacceptable situation that has arisen around the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. You know, seven months ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine assumed responsibility by forming a new coalition, a new government. Thus, seven months ago, a legitimate minister of health was not appointed to take full responsibility for all that is being done in the field of health care. For three months, the office was held by one duty officer, three months later. For three and a half months now, another responsibility has been assigned. You know that the President, as the guarantor of the Constitution, must have had a direct influence on the head of government and on the coalition so that we could finally see the legitimate minister of health in the hall. You know the terrible state of health today. Instead, there is no responsible leader. Volodymyr Borisovich, I'm addressing my colleague under the government of the first post-revolutionary Groissman, is it not awkward for you in front of the Ukrainian people when you can't submit a legitimate minister to the Supreme Council for appointment. You want to see in this position, that's how I understood yesterday after the meeting, the big, closed hurl that took place in the Cabinet of Ministers, Ulyana Suprun? Please give her a candidature. Do you want to see someone else? Let's finally put an end to the abuse and usurpation of power from the executive branch. We are the legislative branch of power, the parliamentary-presidential republic. Has the Ukrainian Constitution abolished this? Did anyone repeal the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act or the central executive authorities, which did not provide for the appointment of responsibilities? And the head of government and the President, and all government officials in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, are obliged to act only within the limits conferred on them by law and only in contrast to the way the Ukrainian people operate, which does what is not prohibited by law. So I am officially addressing and requesting that this be redrafted as a parliamentary request for the appointment of a legitimate immediate member at our next meeting of the Ministry of Health. And that, by the way, refers to the absence of a diploma. Three of my letters to the Ministry of Education, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health, you know what they wrote? That it's a commercial secret and that it's personal data protection. There is no official diploma. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u110	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u111	Therefore, I ask Uljana Suprun publicly to the people's deputies to provide a document on her higher education. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u113	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister who's so smart as to be in the Cabinet of Ministers, who's sitting in a warm office, reduced the standard, the social standard for gas, the social standard for gas from 7 bracelets to 5.5 bracelets? And so out of 5 million 400 households, 2 million 100 single people's households got this 100, almost 100 cubic meters less gas. What does that mean? And that means that last year they had 365 cubes, now 268. Man has lost either a man or a woman, she lives alone, and the state is lowering her social standard by 100 cubic metres of gas at this time. So people are actually freezing right now. Today, Minister of Social Policy Reva has promised, on several occasions, to change my orders and report to the commissions in social administrations that single people have the right to address these commissions, and not only by 49 square meters of this 5.5 is the social standard of cubic meters of gas, but on the whole household, and on the average, in Ukraine, in the villages of 70-80 square meters, they can get this social standard. So I urge citizens, single citizens, to write such appeals to these committees, and today I demand that we make a decision that they were given this social standard for the entire area of the household. And the second important issue that exists today and the problem that exists in the country. If you remember, it's a sažatrů profession. If you visually talk about it, it's a man in black all over, in a soot with a ladder, with some brushes that cleans up these like him, chimneys. Now people are walking around demanding 60 bracelets from each person, and they're threatening to shut off their gas. And it doesn't smell like work around here, they sell help, they don't sell work. That's why I'm calling on citizens today. Nasalik promised to change that command. Go after these sages.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u114	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u115	Drive these sages away, because before they have to agree with you this time when they come. And second of all, they have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u116	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u117	They should do the work, that is, climb up to the roof and clean up this, not sell you help. So drive them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u118	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Michael Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u119	Mikhailo Golovko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight an important problem that concerns Ukrainian society today. This is a situation in the financial market in the Ukrainian State, the destruction of 84 banks under the leadership of the National Bank of Honduras, which has virtually reduced the national rate of the Ukrainian bracelet three times, thus leading to the poverty of the Ukrainian people, who today, almost 80 percent of Ukrainians are outside the poverty line. That's why we have been initiated accordingly, by the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, and by other deputies who have joined us in creating a temporary commission of inquiry on the activities of the NBA leadership, as well as the re-financing of the banks that now make up 400 billion dollars. We imagine what a powerful financial resource this has been virtually outsourced outside Ukraine. If these costs were directed to the real economy, to creating jobs, we could create several factories in each area! This is hundreds of thousands of jobs. This is the real growth of the economy! And unfortunately, that money was just taken off to overseas. So we were initiated, and all the faction leaders were sent letters to submit a representative to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the criminal activity of the head of the National Bank of Honduras. During its reign, Ukraine’s gold reserves decreased from $18 billion to $6 billion. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer. Thus, according to the Rules, 85 parts. We have the right to register the third part of article 185. And two days ago, we registered her in Parliament. Unfortunately, no registration number has been assigned to this decision until today. I call on the Head of Parliament, yesterday we went to Paris to finally assign a number to this decree. And for the next plenary week, we certainly made this decision for consideration in the session hall. I call upon the deputies of all factions to support, to give their representatives to create a temporary commission of inquiry and to verify the leadership of the NBA, which in its actions leads to the destruction of the national economy. Today, the representation of Russian banks has increased from 10 percent to 40 percent. This is a real threat to national security and the national economy of the Ukrainian State! Today, Russian capital has practically a control package over the financial market of the Ukrainian State. Such steps pose a real threat to the existence of Ukraine. So we demand that we immediately create a temporary commission of inquiry, consider, include, assign a number and ask this question for consideration in the session room. And I'm asking representatives of all factions to give a representative so that we can create this commission, and it worked. And finally, all the guilty people are brought to justice, and finally take away the Ukrainian society from the suffering that today is facing the leadership of the NBA, including Valeria Pottery. I call on the people's deputies to support our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to have a word with you. National MP Kulinich, I'm looking at it, it's not. Then the national MP, Andriy Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u121	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Please consider this a request to the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov, Head of the Security Service for Vasil Gritzak, Attorney General Yuri Lucenk and Minister of Environment of Ostap Semierak. Without exaggeration, I would like to state that in Ukraine, the tragedy of the Gribovic garbage dump can repeat itself on the beautiful Volina. I love the song, where the words are, "My love, my beauty, my earth is sunny." Today, the sun’s earth is being turned into a formaldehyde hell of affluents who will care about how our country will live, how our children will live. Not far from Lutsk, in the immediate vicinity of the villages of Lutsky and Roziststen region – the villages of Brische, Majaki, Milice, Rokini, Kneginina, Kopachivka – there is a garbage range that covers more than 40 hectares of land. What's going on out there? Instead of thinking like modern methods, taking European experience, for example, Sweden has no garbage at all, they buy garbage from other countries for processing. What do they want to do there? Society with limited responsibility for the "Centre of Waste Recycling and Disposal" for the direct support of Lutsky RDA Head Igor Jarmolski, under the silent agreement of the Governor of Vladimir Gunczyk's district, is trying to build up. They have a plan to legitimize the illegal construction of a garbage fire plant that has already been started, which the locals have been taking care of more than once. Recently, there were large - scale public hearings in the village of Mayaka. And my colleague, Igor Mosiyczuk, with the deputy of the Volin District Council of the Radical Party, Yuri Royk, with the leader of the RPL on the Wall, Sergey Bula, with the progressive public of the country, took part in them. The locals are very indignant because they realize that this production will be applied. Now. It's an open-circuit furnace. This technology has not been used in Europe for more than 40 years at all, because it's formaldehyde waste. I remember the words of Tarasik Grigorovovich: "My thoughts, my words, my flowers, my children! He raised you. He cared for you. Where are your children? Go to Ukraine, children! To our Ukraine, to the Bottom of Orphans, and I will die here." Orphanages will be carried by Ukrainian children and may not be born. As long as we have such authority, we will have a total impact on the health and health of the adult generation, the elderly, and, above all, the children. Because I'm from the next country. Who knows, these huge Alps, the Pyrenees, the White Mountains, threw out phosphohyps equal to the ferret nitrogen. The cows that feed are killed there. There, for the children to be born in the villages around us, it is remarkable news. Because they're poisoning and destroying Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u122	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vladislav Doub.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u123	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, today's speech I would like to dedicate to human resources policy in our country. You know, the weakest place in any power is the quality of its ingredients. Professionalism, intelligence, efficiency, patriotism, ability to see strategically, ability to see 2-3 steps forward, exclusive absence, tolerance for corruption, and even better – open hatred for this phenomenon – are the very qualities on which the human rights policy of each state should be based. These are the qualities that make any power strong and the state self-sufficient. But unfortunately, the entire history of an independent Ukraine shows quite different examples that any personnel decisions were based, not on the principles I have listed above, but on the principles of personal proximity and instantaneous gain. You know, that's how you made up the vicious closed circle that held on to the circuit. Thus, there was also a so-called untouched caste that could act outside the law, commit any economic crimes, but continue to work. You know, when the Dignity Revolution took place, everyone thought that such times had gone into oblivion. Sadly, though, we were wrong. And I want to give you an example of why we're wrong on an example of an area that I have the privilege of representing in this session hall in the Cherkas region. For two and a half years the same man has been in charge of the Chercas region. But what happened over the past two and a half years with this wonderful area, which has always been, despite any objective factors, ahead of socio-economic development compared to other regions of Ukraine. But now the Cherkas region is taking up the last steps in socio-economic development, in external economic activity, in investment attractiveness. But he continues to lead the Church State Administration. And the fact remains that this is the only head of the district government that works with the President of Ukraine's reproach. There are no more of them in the area. But once again, nothing happens. And it's not all because no one appreciates professional qualities, but with any kind of cover, we're going to call it a cover in the high office of the President's Administration. But I'm convinced that we're ahead of times when politics goes into oblivion and when the state's position is going to be a fundamental prerequisite when professionalism is the primary factor for human resources policy when corruption is destroyed. And no matter what position everyone has.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u124	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u125	Regardless of who is taking the stand and who, if sorry, is hiding, will all be held accountable for the corrupt crimes committed by a certain person. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u126	Thank you. There is no National Deputy Kunicin. Sidorchuk, national deputy. None. I'm walking, I'm not. Igor's doll is gone. People's MP Miroshnichenko, please. Instead of Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u127	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. But I would like to act now not as a politician, not as a member of the Supreme Council, but as the father of a child with autism. And I want to talk to all the parents, all the citizens, the education people who are facing the problem of children with special needs. The thing is, maybe you haven't heard, but the Cabinet of Ministers approved a decree not to include special boarding schools with special needs, but special classes will be created in public schools. The idea is the right thing to do, the whole world is trying to adapt, on the one hand, children with special needs for life in society, on the other hand, to the society and children who are being trained in normal children's schools, so that they have experience in communication with such people. This is the right idea, and I think it is necessary and necessary, but there are a number of challenges involved. And so I want to go to all the representatives of the education sector so that we're all together and the ministry, and we're like the national MPs, and the parents, and the teachers, and the school principals, and we're not just getting ready to do this from the point of view of pandas and so on, and so on, and so on, those technical things, but it's very important that we prepare a methodological base, we're also going to prepare psychologically, on the one hand, those kids who go, children with special needs that go to school, and those kids who are already in school, and they're going to have a new experience of communication with children, colleagues, peers with special needs. This is a serious challenge facing our society so that we do not discredit this idea. Because cruelty, rejection of even bullying and torture of such children will be able to discredit the idea, and we will reject the prospect of involving them in general education for many years to come. I especially want to contact the parents of such children. Let's get together, we've had hearings about childhood here in the Supreme Council, and we've talked about this problem, and today Minister Lilia Grigorovitch is an active supporter of working with such problems and working with parents, with organizations to unite us and to the next school year as much as possible. For my part, as a national deputy I express my willingness to cooperate, I want to assure you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u128	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u129	And I want to make sure that all the factions of this problem are ready to work. It is not political, and we will be able to allow our children with special needs to meet a new school year as full - time students in public schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u130	Thank you. I went back to the hall. Wait a minute, the national MP Igor Lucenko has returned to the hall. I don't think you'd mind if we gave him our word. Please, National Deputy Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! I am so grateful that I was given the opportunity to do this, because I was just at a meeting with the public of Kiev, with the leading experts in the area of construction, transport infrastructure, with the deputies of the Kiev City Council. And we've come together with a very painful and urgent question like today's process of reforming Kiev's development strategy. We remember the days of Januković, and we remember when a strategy was formed for the then governors of Popov, the governor of Kiev Popov, who was then involved in the Maydan race. And of course it was a terrible fight for the whole public to clean up all possible dangerous things for Kiev. Unfortunately, the situation now repeats itself, but with today's new mayor, Klick, when the very opaque mechanisms simply contradict the basic interests of the builders, wrapped in such a beautiful envelope as the Kiev Development Strategy. Now there's a Clicco majority. Most in the city council of Kiev are in construction. But this does not mean that the basic majority will allow and perhaps decide the fate of the entire city of Kiev. This document is a document of constitutional significance, and we cannot allow it to be contradicted in two weeks of public discussion anywhere. There's an Internet station there, and there's an elementary vote in those votes that always vote for all the crime farms in Kyivrad. We call for this to be a wide, at least two months of discussion, to be taken at least two thirds of Kyivrada's composition and that the process of discussion should be clearly regulated so that all the thoughts recorded by experts can be heard. Otherwise, even the process that is currently taking place with Kiev will continue and worsen, namely the destruction of green areas, the destruction of historical cultural heritage, destruction and sale, in fact, of transport infrastructure. And so it just provokes a city that lives in the ass, destroys, eats itself, and is simply unacceptable to live on the planet. In order not to stop this process, which was launched, at Omelchenk, Chernewtski, Popov and continue, unfortunately, at Klitschko, we urge all the opposition forces in this country to unite and stop the next phase of Kyiv's destruction, called "The Strategy for the Development of Kiev". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take part in a little girl's fate. Four - year - old Anastasia Gusarska from the city of Brody, Lviv district, needs a heart transplant. The girls were diagnosed with demented cardiomyopathy and mitral insufficiency. The sum of the congregation is $95,000. Nastya was born a normal, healthy child, but by the first month of her life, she had an infectious disease — a cough that drained the baby’s body for almost six months. After recovery, everything seemed to be behind, but three months later, another infectious disease caused irreparable damage to the little girl. At the age of two, Nastya suffered a stroke, resulting in a right-hand paralysis. But her desire to play with her older brother and sister helped her to regain her limbs. But the problems that have been brought to the heart have made them more difficult. The child was examined in Kiev. Then there was a year of treatment, and this year the Institute of Hearts, after examination, said that there was no alternative but a heart transplant. Its heart is stretched to unbelievably large and does not allow any physical loads. A four - year - old girl has a heart the size of an adult. The irreversible changes in the heart require a transplant from the donor body. They agreed to do this at Fortis Paint Hospital Chennai India. Time and money are two things that are always missing. Right now, Anastasia’s life depends on these two factors. There is no time, the diagnosis does not allow you to wait long. The family is unable to raise such funds. In the family, four children are raised by their mother. Ninety-five thousand dollars is the cost of the operation and 15 days of rehabilitation, not including housing, additional testing and analysis. Only by uniting together will we be able to help save another child who wants to live like all healthy children. Childish happiness is the most important thing in adult life. It doesn't matter which child we make happy, our own or someone else's. The important thing is that the other child smiles and enjoys life. And making a happy child sick is already the case. That's how they save lives. All caregivers are asked to respond. You can give your mother a phone number, 099 3248086, 099 3248086. Private Bank, props: 4731 1856 1112 2653, Guzarska Natalija Volodymyrna. Again: 4731 1856 1112 2653, Guzarska Natalija
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u134	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u135	Thank you. I hope you can help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u136	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dmitry Link.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u137	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. In recent days we have seen very serious historical events not only in the world but also in Ukraine. Regrettably, today’s power and government has made the anti - Ukrainian policy a very good ground for those who want to take advantage of the protest moods, the patriotic sentiments of the dissatisfied Ukrainian people, and the cause for disgruntled, this policy and this authority. But unfortunately, in this situation, we see that we're trying to use policies that don't see anything and that our citizens want to come to power. We were at the Supreme Council Hall looking at Moscow's plan, specifically the Timoshenko Medvedchuk plan, to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. Thankfully, we managed to stop him, but we do not know how the situation would proceed. The situation in the war country and the country in the crisis to start such serious destabilisation protests is not just unacceptable, it is a crime. We have asked the President of Ukraine to immediately stop any interference by Russia with the Ukrainian political situation, take away the citizenship of citizen Timoshenko Yuli Volodymyrovna, remove immediately from the negotiating process in Minsk Victor Medvedczuk, the godfather of Putin, who openly betrays Ukrainian interests in the negotiations in Minsk, and arrest Boyk, Ljovczyn, to close their Inter television channel, which runs anti-Ukrainian propaganda. By rephrasing Napoleon, who said that battles would be lost or won long before they started, so we lost our battle for Crimea not in 2014 in February, but in 2008 when Russia attacked Georgia. Then Prime Minister Timoshenko instead. and its political power, Fatherland, instead of supporting our Georgian brothers, hugged and kissed Putin. Then, when our troops were ready to take up arms and defend our territory in Crimea, Julia Timoshenko urged us not to draw tanks from the military, and she began betraying our country. So today, in order to protect our Ukraine, so that we don't allow the country's collapse to continue, we demand decisive action from the BSS, from the President, from all the authorities in order to prevent new revolutions from happening here in Ukraine. We must adopt the Law on impeachment. We have to adopt the Law on Special Temporary Investigation Commissions so that we can attract any President, whoever it is, in a legitimate way. And the Radical Party has registered such a law, and we require Parliament to adopt it, not to carry out new revolutions from which this country will not survive, and on the blood of our citizens to come to power. So we claim that the Radical Party is in the interests of Ukrainian statehood, and we will not allow the destabilization and destruction of the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u138	Thank you. There is no National Deputy Zhivago. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u139	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people! Respectable squires! I'd like to take a look today and take a look at the vacchanal of the forgetfulness that happens in the capital, which, in fact, as metastases, continues throughout all the major cities of the country. But I would like to use a specific example that. I think it's very showy and it shows why things like this are actually happening. Two months ago, the whole of Kiev was swinging, crumbling from the roadblocks of Saintessin, when the aunts beat the locals when they beat the women, the old men, the children were beaten. A lot of people have said that there's some sort of squabble between some of the builders there, that it's some sort of raiding attempt, and so on, even though the community's been actually fighting the saviour there for a year. But few spoke of the fact that it became all possible to fight and fight like this because the city's capital, Kyiv Vitaly Volodymyrovich, had simply broken the law and committed a corrupt and illegal act that he had no right to do. That is, he signed a lease agreement in March 15th, even though the law expressly forbidding him to sign such a contract. How could you not? And he forbade in this way that the law of January 1st, 15th, has a clear rule that if there is no detailed plan for the territory developed and approved, there is no land to be leased. But, well, knowing that, the city head Klitschko still signed this lease agreement and transferred this land into the lease to the construction site of Kyivmishkbud, by the way, as if to a communal structure, and so committed a corrupt offence. And we see, clearly, all the consequences beyond this first action. So not to be loud and finally bring this bandit to justice, and, I think it's a showcase, because we've been able to document everything here, today I've made appropriate parliamentary inquiries. He was read from the rostrum today. A parliamentary request to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Sitnik Ukraine, to the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Netherlands, requiring the submission to the Single Register of Criminal Investigations of the report of the crime, in part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, namely, the abuse of an official position, i.e. intentional, with a view to obtaining an unfair advantage for another legal person, the use of an official position contrary to the interests of the service, which has caused serious consequences for the actions of Klitsch Vitali Volodymirovich. This hit-and-run mayor, a friend of the builders. And I demand that the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office take over the NABU. Please give me 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u140	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u141	In order for the anticorruption prosecutor’s office to immediately submit the relevant information to the registry and immediately initiate a judicial investigation. Let them show that they are truly such independent new fighters with corruption. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u142	Thank you. There's no Yatzenka National Deputy. Welcome to the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the way in which we are now experiencing decentralization of power and how effective the activities of individual organs of local self-government are. Some would say that it would simply be a performance not specifically on some issue, but the problem is generally across Ukraine and, in fact, on every local government body. Today, thanks to our voted reforms in the area of decentralization, we have given enough authority to the local authorities. And for today, I believe that every national MP, regardless of where he is, is in coalition or opposition, is entitled to demand from local authorities, from local heads of local councils, from city deputies, from district deputies or district deputies that the funds that are being used are additionally being received by local budgets. Why am I focusing on this, and why would I want to pay attention to this today, perhaps first and foremost, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Dear friends of the Ukrainians today in many local authorities, there is sufficient money to not just reform but to bring about a system in specific areas of one or another. This includes education in part, medicine, and other fields. At the same time, there are these things where individual local officials realize that the fastest, the most efficient, is to use money, for example, to repair roads or any other work, where you can write down these funds pretty quickly and get the right bribes or dumps in your pockets. I mean, it can't just be like this and it shouldn't be. And so in the process of decentralization, that's exactly the kind of corruption component that's stopping. And for example, it does not personally give me any further insight into the continuation of the effective work of the Supreme Council in the first place, of the government, and of the President's support for the continuation of the reforms. So I would like to address all the heads of the local councils, all the city heads, all the organs and deputies, the local authorities. During the budget formation for 2017, it's quite active and timely, and it's quite constructive to approach the formation, to meet the basic needs. Pay attention to social needs. It's for education, for medicine. Consider the situation in which poor roads are actually located in villages rather than roads in district centers or areas that are repaired 20 times by 10 years. That is not possible today. We have to make priorities. And for the government, it seems to me today that you might need to do a clear task that is a priority for the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u144	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u145	What is a priority for local authorities to avoid such acts of corruption in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u146	Thank you. And the last performance. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u147	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I sent a letter to the Secretariat to obtain the right to speak in connection with the dissatisfaction of the reply to the MP’s request. Regrettably, the bureaucratic obstacles did not cause this to happen. What are you talking about? I have not sent a single request to the Cabinet of Ministers, to other executive authorities, and to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for an immediate response to the pollution of the lobster rivers and the West, from which many people use water. I'm not talking about the environment anymore. Finally, I received an answer. It's interesting and it's showy and, in principle, it's typical of those answers that we got on the MP's request. For example, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine notes that when there is a demand in the established order for funding to be allocated for this environmental action, they will study the issue of the allocation of funds, and at the same time note that the problem is extremely complex and extremely urgent and requires prompt response. Let's move on. The National Academy of Sciences says that if there's 500,000 dollars, we're going to do the right research, because we're going to find that it's not possible to do this right now. And it pollutes the Poninkov Rivers of the paper and cardboard factory. To determine who the ultimate owner is, but judging from all that is not being decided, he is, at least, not in the last positions in Kiev. It's the answer. The State Water Agency is a statement that immediate action is needed. The government's environmental inspection on the four pages is necessary. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy correctly states that this problem needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. The Ukrainian National Police report that the investigation is ongoing. The Ministry of Regional Development and Construction and Housing says that first, adopt the Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act, then we will not pollute the rivers. There is no answer. And there's only one supply left. Who is the owner of this enterprise, which he has punished or raised funds from it, conduct research and take urgent measures to avoid poisoning the atmosphere, water, and humans. The answer is absolutely zero. Once again, I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers because the question before me was the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u148	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u149	And one more thing. I ask the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to examine the answers we receive to the parliamentary requests. At best, we get a discount from the tenth deputy, not even from those to whom we refer. This was not the case before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-18-m0.u150	Thank you. Indeed, we have, I think, a crisis of a great instrument of parliamentary control, such as parliamentary appeals and parliamentary inquiries. We do not have a proper response to them. I think these tools actually need to be reviewed, and maybe we need to look for new tools that will be more qualitative. In the meantime, we finished our work. And I'm announcing it. And first of all, I want to remind you that the next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on December 6th at 10:00. The next week will be a week's work on the committees, next week will be a week's work for the people's deputies in the districts. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
