ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work and ask the factions, heads of factions to call the deputies to the Chamber. Dear colleagues, once again I urge the deputies to enter the hall, to take up jobs so that we can start our work. Please come into the hall, we're getting ready for registration. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we're about to have a check-in, prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues! Please register to attend the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please include the registration of national deputies. Please. [[16:11:10]] 339 deputies registered. So I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you, normally. We're just before the break. We didn't have enough votes for Bill 2669-d, this second reading, we agreed that we would put him to the vote after the break. But, I'm afraid, and now we don't have enough votes until all the deputies come together, so I have a request for you to go to the next reading bill. When we look at it, there'll be mobilization in the hall, then we'll vote in 2669-d. Is there no objection to our going to the next bill of order? There's no objection in the hall. Thank you for your understanding and thank you for your support. But it will be important for us to vote on short readings so that we can start the discussion process. Therefore, I ask you to take up your jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please, we are taking up jobs, and I'm looking at Bill 3042: draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the use of naphtha. And on behalf of the committee, I'm proposing a vote to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. I ask Nasalik to mobilize his faction. Tell them to sit down, let them vote. Please prepare for the vote and please vote on the proposal - consideration of the 3042 cut-off procedure. Please vote, 3042, summary procedure. [[16:13:32]] For 101 We didn't make it. I'm very much asking you to come to your jobs. We can now go into full procedure and not consider a number of important bills. When can we get together, rather than on Thursdays, to the fullest extent, dear colleagues? So once again, for those who have failed to reach their jobs, I am voting on a motion for a brief motion for a 3042 bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on the use of naphtha-gasanes. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote on the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:14:40]] For 114 The decision is not made. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the motion for a reduced procedure. If there's no support in the room, we'll go over the full procedure. Who hasn't reached the jobs yet, please come and take the jobs. And once again, I'm proposing a reduced procedure for bill 3042: amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of naphtha-gasogaso-drugs. Anyone who supports the motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote! [[16:16:09]] For 133 The decision is not made. The hall requires a full procedure. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Nasalik Igor Stepanović. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! For some reason we have such a practice that it is only about the laws that fill the budget, so we don’t have 150 people. By the way, Minister of Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u3	I can't say about the BP. By the way. Abdullin! Abdullin! Abdullin, listen! By the way, the Minister of Fuel and Energy sat on all the laws that applied to cinematography and culture, and when it came to the issue of the fuel and energy complex, it was not on the stand. It's not really an issue. Dear friends! In your view, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the use of naphtha-gasogaso-drugs under registration number 3042. The increase in oil and gas production is a matter of national security and defence. Lack of investment and access to new technologies reduces the production of hydrocarbons, and the trend continues. For example, respectable friends. Compared to state-owned enterprises alone, the amount of gas extracted in 2014 and 2015 decreased by one billion cubic metres. Today, the biggest projects in finding and extracting hydrocarbons have been stopped by Chevron, Shell, Annie and EDF. So either the Minister of Fuel and Energy has found no argument to leave these investments, or he doesn't work at all. This situation can only be reversed by a broad investment in state-owned enterprises: both the Carcinophtha Pat and the Carcinocarbon Pat. However, because of the limited financial resources that are available in these enterprises, especially because of the increase in the rent that we have introduced, it is virtually impossible to do so without investment. Besides, I have to tell you this little thing, we're all watching the price of barrels drop, and we're calculating how the budget of the Russian Federation changed, and what they need now is a grant to it. But changing the raw resource base of raw materials also affects the attractiveness of investing in the oil and gas industry, in our country, including. Law 3042 is primarily aimed at improving and deregulation of the distribution agreement. In particular, the bill provides for the possibility of an agreement on the distribution of produce not only in the existing area of the nadr, but also in the parts where it is possible to allocate individual geological structures. The bill provides for the possibility of compensating the costs incurred by the investor, first of all, for state companies, in the development of the relevant areas of the farm, to convert it into a product distribution agreement by obtaining part of the compensatory product produced in the execution of the contract. The bill also corrects the inadequacy of property rights in the Oil and Gas Act and in the Code on Nadra under the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill adds to the Nadra Code, according to which useful fossils are divided into basic and related. The bill is complemented by the Code of Criminal Procedure on the right of ownership of the country's geological information or user, which depends on whether such information has been received and processed at the expense of a drug user or at the expense of a local or state budget. This suggests that in the use of investments, funds are being recovered that are spent on district budgets that are urban, that are state-owned. The bill adds a standard to the Ukrainian Environmental Expertise Act, which provides for mandatory state environmental expertise in the drafting of a distribution agreement. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security considered Bill 3042 at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u4	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum according to the Rules. Now I'm going to ask you a question and answer them. And I'm asking the MPs to record a question to the reporter. Please sign in. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u5	Thank you. Long, "The will of the people." Your Honor, we are most likely to support the legislative initiative, but we have more questions than you, but to the executives. This bill, among other things, is in principle deregulation of the field of activity. We have questions about how this will affect investors like Shell, who in September, as we all know, have decided to leave Ukraine. Unfortunately, we know that it's not just Shell, but other big systemic investors, instead of coming to Ukraine today, when we really need it, are thinking about how to get out of here. Will this legislative initiative be an important step in meeting their demands or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u6	Unfortunately, I want to support you on this issue, and I have to say, in my report, that the four most powerful companies in the world, and not only Shell and Chevron, which you mentioned, but also Annie and EDF, who have, let's say, a great global experience in the production of hydrocarbons, new technologies, they've practically come out of the market in Ukraine because they see bureaucratic procedures to invest, and the risks of investing these investments are extremely high. Therefore, the addition to the bill removes part of the bureaucratic procedures and allows Ukraine to become attractive to introduce new technologies. Although, of course, I agree with you that this is more of a question for the Minister of Fuel and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u7	Thank you. Andrew Lozova, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u8	I give the word to Andrew Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u9	Andrew Artemenko, Oleg Lacha Radical Party. Your Honor, I'm going to have to ask you this question. You're planning on second reading, we're going to support this bill in the first reading, you're going to take into account in the second reading of the bill the terms that exist in the decision to eliminate Naftogazu Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u10	Andrew, we talked to you about this, and I have to say that we are asking to join the work of our committee. All the suggestions that will be considered as a result of changes in the attitude of deputies into second reading will be taken into account and made in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u11	Thank you. Roman Semenha, Self Help Association, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u13	Self-help faction, Leo Podlisecki. I have a question for the reporter. Don't you see the excessive corruption risks in the issue of the removal of areas and the granting of permits for the production of useful fossils, as noted in an article, of small amounts of gas or oil, because the concept of "small" is very subjective. I have this feeling that when it's actually put on local self-government, we're all going to have absolutely little deposits, and it's going to be an even more corrupt lasagna than the joint activity contracts that we're going to look like a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u14	I agree with your offer. But he must say that there are 326 ancestry in Ukraine. And they're usually in the structure or the Pat Crushing, or the structure of Crushing. Of these 326 genealogies, only 22 are large, which do not consider the formation of the Distribution Law at all. Everything else is small ancestry. Well, for example, Battlekiv-Babchen birthplace, which is located in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, is being exploited, starting in the last century, at the beginning of the last century next year. There are over 600 drills. It's being operated, let's say, only 200, 450 -- inactive. They're only inactive because there were 3,000 cubes per month of gas considered non-profitable. These changes in the bill, for example, allow for and work with such genealogies. Moreover, it does not make a decision only by the city or district council in the selection of this section, although it is provided for there. There is also agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So in a duet, I think that the corrupt ingredient you're talking about is going to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u15	Wojcietsky, Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u16	Yes, good afternoon! Dear colleagues, I would like to ask my colleague on the PEC committee about this bill. What is the logic of automatic conversion from special permits for, as you rightly pointed out, state companies, such as Crushing or partly state-owned Skrnafta, into production distribution contracts, if our goal is to maximize investment, including Western investment, in the direction of gas production through open processes? Open competitions for investors. Why do we need to reinvent a corrupt, completely subjective conversion mechanism, when we can issue appropriate permits, say that the state is ineffective in its use and administration, and give it to investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u17	I understand the point, Mrs. Vojtsiecki, I understand the general point. But I might disagree with you a little bit about that. Why? Because this Production Distribution Law usually applies to those special permits that exist, which work. And they're in the structure of both the Cranberry Pat and the Crushing Structure. If we take away all these permits, we've got a structure like Crushing and the structure of Pat Crumbs just won't exist. That's the point. Well, if you want to put all the specials in the country, you have to put all the specials that these two companies are doing on the market. This is the first one. The second, unfortunately, was already mentioned in the report, four large companies left the market in Ukraine, well, due to certain circumstances, corresponding investment risks. If the gas industry now has a turn of interest in investment, of course, we may be able to take such general steps. But the main ideology of this bill is that within the framework of an active special permit, investment areas can be allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u18	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u19	I've already talked about that in a year, a billion cubic metres of gas, but it's the principle of increasing their production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u20	Thank you. The time for questions is over. Now come out of the factions for three minutes. Please record statements from factions. Your Honor, you can take your place. Please record. Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u21	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is today's first bill of economic orientation. We have considered everything, but we have only managed to approach the economy for the first time, which today, to my deep conviction, should be in the order of the day under question number one. As far as this bill is concerned, I urge everyone to support it, because to this day we have a decline in investment in the gas or oil sector in our country. Why did this happen? Because that legislative field was opaque and stimulated corruption schemes such as joint action. Instead, the proposed route of distribution agreements is a civilised path, a path by which European, international investments can be involved and this law is not entirely, of course, but this law largely allows for the unification of legislation that will stimulate investment in the oil and gas sector. That's why I'm calling on my fellow Members of Parliament to support this important legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u22	Thank you. More willing to speak out of factions did not appear in the hall. Next chapter: Presentations by the National Deputies. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. Please sign up. Andrew Illenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u24	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The honourable national MPs, the honourable voters, the bill is ambiguous, because it still leaves behind a number of gaps in the legal rules that could be set aside from legislation, namely, to allow companies to participate in the extraction of natural resources without a competition for a distribution agreement. I mean, these schemes still do damage to the state budget and avoid paying taxes. Actually, it's a principle. I'm in a lot of agreement with the speakers who are here telling us that we need to develop energy independence, we need to develop, increase natural gas production, we need Ukraine to be a fully independent state in terms of energy. And in fact, according to expert estimates, we're self-sufficient, we can totally do without Russian gas. That's enough for us to just one or two years to get away from the gas addiction, from the pipe, from the Russian Federation. But unfortunately, the government and the current authorities are doing nothing in that direction, on the contrary, are increasing their dependence on the supply of gas from the Russian Federation primarily through basic companies, such as Trade Stone, which were registered in Germany, and the agreements signed with them. It's actually Russian gas. Instead, we did not reduce our Parliament, in a year's time, the decision to reduce rent on natural gas. And today, we're killing a remarkable branch in the Ukrainian state. We did not adopt a bill that initiated the All-U.S. Freedom Association, including me as the author, 2408a, which would have predicted that our gas, cheap, its own production, would cost 1,000,600 dollars per thousand cubes, would have been the first to target the population, i.e. the population. Unfortunately, this bill is so far away from Parliament today, saying that MPs don't want to break the addiction of oligarchs, oligarch owners, who today have illegally taken gas from their pockets, are using it, and Ukrainians are selling expensive gas, which is mixed up and at the price of 7,000,200 dollars per thousand cubes, virtually using it. The government is talking about the subsidies that they gave away from the budget, and it's those subsidies that go, first of all, into the pocket of the oligarchs, to compensate us for our Ukrainian cheap gas they're stealing, and then they're selling us expensive imported. And that's why we call for our initiatives, to reduce rent in case of natural gas, to vote on our bill that the gas of our own production should go first to the people, not in the pockets of the oligarchs. And then we can actually build an independent energy policy in our country. And this bill will not be supported. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u25	Kocheljeva gives the word Lašek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u26	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens! Dear fellow MPs! I don't think I'm going to tell you a big secret when I say that today's biggest corruption is in the field of energy and banking. We see again here in the governmental bed of the Minister of Energy of Demchisin, whose conscience is all over this corrupt machine. We Ukrainian citizens are paying for the corruption we have today in energy. Yesterday we were looking at a bill on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Service Market, the amount of money that this commission is rotating, like a gypsy sun, 300 billion dollars a year, they're setting from the lamp tariffs on light, the housing and utilities tariffs, and we're going to pay these greedy corrupts who don't know which holes they're already licking and stealing money from our pockets with you. Today we are invited to consider the laws on the gas market, about everything else. Who's to blame for people paying for space services for tariffs? I'll show you this man. He's sitting there. This is his fault, Demchisin. And the other man is the Wolf. These two wolves in sheep's clothing are responsible for the fact that you and I pay high tariffs, that people can't make ends meet to pay for the utility. Because where's the Ukrainian gas? The Ukrainian gas is unknown where, and the imported gas, which is expensive, we all have to pay for it. That's why the faction of the Radical Party with a view to radically overcoming corruption in the energy field is a very clear plan of action. First, the elimination of Naftogazu. This corrupt office that wipes tens of billions of dollars out of the government budget, and we have to pay for corruption in Naftogaz from our own pockets. The second, very important element in fighting corruption is the human resources component. The fight against corruption must begin with the Minister of Energy of Demchishin, who has been released from his position as Minister of Energy and has stopped corruption in the energy field. There's only one fact. Whosoever standeth, sit, for ye shall fall. Last year, Ukraine paid a billion dollars for Russian coal. What I'm asking is, why didn't this billion dollars go to the lion's miners, the Vole miners, the Donetsk miners and the day-to-day coal miners? Why you pay a billion dollars to the Russian miners, we work, we pay taxes to the Russian budget, we pay it because there's Demchisin, there's a wolf that has corruption schemes with the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, and that's what Ukrainian citizens pay for. Get corruption out of Parliament and out of power!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u27	Victoria Vojticka, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Of course, it's very hard to get your attention after this fair talk, but I'm still going to try. So, going back to the essence of the bill itself. We all know that Ukraine is still dependent on gas imports, earlier on Russian gas imports, now we are dependent on gas imports from Europe, but still dependent. So our key task is to do everything we can to stimulate investment in domestic production, to develop our own manufacturing sector. But how should this be done? And how has this been done before? Previously, you and I know very well that this sector has been and, unfortunately, remains one of the most corrupt. The procedures for issuing special permits were a separate topic for certain government structures to build properties in Concha-Spas, then to be able to fly to Majorca, Maldives and so on. What does the bill propose? In fact, the bill invites us to continue with a system whereby the actual involvement of investors will again take place under the influence of corruption, where the subjectivity of the decision-making process will be enormous, where the procedure itself is not understood and is not as effective as it would be for Western investors. What do we propose? We propose to inventory all the special permits that are on the balance sheet of state companies and to determine where they are really using all their capabilities and are effective at extracting and providing maximum production in one area or another, and where they are unfortunately losing their position. So we think that investment should take place on transparent competitive grounds, not through the allocations, as proposed by this bill, of individual areas, of individual parts, of existing special permits. The state is an inefficient owner, we give back security clearances, we put it up for competition and we engage it on transparent investor principles. Therefore, the self-help faction will not support the bill. And we very much ask our colleagues to listen to our suggestions and not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u29	Thank you. Amelchenko Vasil. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u30	Basil Amelchenko, Oleg Laschka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the project, as highlighted in the explanatory note to it, is to deregulation of the procedures for placing oil and gas-gas naphthas in use, refinement and simplification of administrative procedures for the award of bribes. Of course, there must be order in this queen and, of course, as our leader stressed today, most of all today we have corruption schemes right in the oil and gas sector. In fact, however, the bill is not a clarification; rather, it contains standards that conflict with article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution. That is, with the adoption of these rules and beneficial fossils owned by the Ukrainian people, when authorised to use the nadrama, useful fossils produced by the user will become property of the user, unless otherwise provided by law or contract. Thus, the question is now quite sensitive, as it relates to the gas industry. There are no problems when it comes to the production of state - owned enterprises. And on the other hand, when the distribution of products is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on a Product Distribution Agreement, in this case it is necessary to amend this law in order to clearly define the percentage of produce that will be produced. So at a time when the price of natural gas is higher than we feel today, and the consumers first feel it, we suggest that it is premature today and is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u31	Leo Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u32	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I would like to continue my colleague Victoria Vojcitsky's speech, and particularly to address Ukrainian citizens who understand what's going on in the gas market. In fact, there are a few major players in Ukraine who extract gas, these are foreign companies, real investors who come to the competition, they win competitions, they invest money and they extract gas, and they don't need joint venture agreements, they don't need product distribution contracts, they don't need any other special conditions, because they're real companies that are willing to work under competitive conditions. The second category, and this is the largest, this is Crushing. A state company that, unfortunately, has been reducing gas production in recent years, but at the same time a new sector has emerged in this area, these are so - called joint venture agreements. What are common - business agreements? These are companies that were close to the authorities that had certain, used connections to get a permit to extract and, accordingly, to extract all the gas to keep, and to sell at a different price than the one for which Crushing was fixed at about 400 dollars, but at a real market price. And it was with those companies that we started to fight, and to normalize their activities by introducing a special tax rate of 70 percent. What is now proposed by the bill? Create new schemes to create new, certain corruption opportunities at work already under so-called distribution contracts. In fact, there is nothing wrong with the distribution contracts, but not in the way they are supposed to be. There is a transition to a joint activity agreement, a contract for distribution of products without a competitive basis, and there are special simplified procedures for granting permits for the production of gas under conditions of recourse to local authorities. So this is actually a hidden evil that can't be allowed. So I urge you to regulate and work on increasing gas production by involving real investors that create real, transparent, competitive conditions, and transparent and competitive taxation of the sector. Thank you for your attention. The Self-Help faction will not support this law and will turn to everyone to reject the bill, both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. He's handing over the Head. Lechnik microphone. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u34	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, I've listened very carefully to a lot of speakers, especially a reporter who's been talking about how the oil and gas industry needs a variety of help: deregulation, simplification of procedures. It feels like it's a small and medium-sized business that barely survives, and it feels like they have very little profitability, and they're already dying and they can't survive at all. And so it's proposed in this bill to give a variety of bypassing possibilities, gaps in legislation, to put out huge nadars, which belong to the entire Ukrainian people. So it's suggested that we simplify the conclusion of product distribution agreements in order to leave the Ukrainian people behind with nothing. That's why we have a poor oil and gas sector. I would still suggest to the coalition members not to worry about the oil and gas sector, but to worry about the small and medium-sized business that is now barely digesting, but holding the whole of Ukraine on its hill. Under such laws we must not vote under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u35	Thank you. The closing word Minister Demchisin, please turn on the microphone. And then we go to the vote. I'd like a colleague of the deputies to come into the hall. Turn on Demchachin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u36	Dear National Deputies! Thank you very much for your attention to this law. Thank you for an active discussion. In fact, this law proposes amendments to the three laws of Ukraine and to the Code of Nadar. There are a lot of technical changes that have to ask or resolve the question of determining the rights of each of the parties to this treaty, the mechanism for the entry and exit of an investor, as well as the main efforts aimed at strengthening environmental control. These are all very important things, and they don't really solve the main problem of involving an investor. Until he understands the clear commercial conditions that will be established by law for a long time, he will not come. Therefore, we do not find answers to the transfer of the main participants from a joint activity to a production distribution agreement. But the Ministry has developed its version, and we will definitely give it. In addition, there was a Cabinet decision yesterday on measures to increase gas production. It's a matter of simplifying the procedure of issuing special permits, and of land surveyors, and of setting rents. That is, it takes five years to obtain permission today. This is unacceptable and does not in any way stimulate an increase in gas production. These problems need to be solved by now. And there is a solution. For example, there are laws that have also been developed jointly with deputies, such as Mrs. Belkova, after deregulation of the process of issuing special permits. They're definitely going to be looking into this room, but they're at this point at different stages of preparation. As far as this bill is concerned, I say, it should have answered one key question: it's rent, it's the salary of the participants who sign this agreement. The question is not solved at this time. And without a commercial question, it's ridiculous to talk about technology. I believe that this question can be worked out between the first and the second readings, but it seemed to me that it should be put at the first stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u37	Thank you. Now the final word is Igor Stepanovich Nasalika. And while Igor Stepanovich is speaking, I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u38	I just want to summarize in a few words the result, we say, of the performances that were made by other factions. First, Mr. Levchenk's answer. If it were interesting to work under the Distribution of Products Act, the freighters wouldn't show up, because the Distribution of Production Act is a more transparent scheme for working. And because there are no investors, I've already said that four major firms came out of the Ukraine market and reduced Ukrainian companies' gas production by a billion cubes. As far as "self-help" is concerned, if that's what you mean. We've got the whole thing. Mrs. Vojtsiecka, we have fully formulated special permits. If we take these specs off now, we can say that enterprises like Crushing, Crushing, are just not going to work. That's what they're working on, they've got these permits for 25, 30 or more years, and they've been spending extraordinary money. What does it mean to take them away? So I would very much like this bill to be supported, which allowed for the development of the production of hydrocarbons in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u39	Thank you, dear fellows. We have completed a lively, intellectual discussion of the bill, we can go to the vote. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. Who named your last name? Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, did you mention the name Levchenka? Where's Nasalik? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. As long as people come in, give me a line, 30 seconds. Yuri Lewchenko, 30 seconds, replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u40	I thank you anyway. Because my last name was mentioned, for example, a little falsely commented on my speech. It's not about finding mechanisms to push a private investor into the nadra that belongs to the Ukrainian people. This is about the State of Ukraine finally, instead of having thieves who steal the budget sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, directing the normal funds that are actually in this budget to develop their own oil and gas, which is what this is about, not to pass on again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Dear colleagues, we'll put up a signal vote. Everyone, please focus. And I'm voting for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of naphtha-gasogaso-drugs (3042) on the basis of a signal vote. Please vote 3042. [[16:54:36]] For-163 Developers, are you ready for a re-read? Nasalek, one more time? I make the following proposal under the Rules as an alert, whether there are voices under it: for the re-reading of the first reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Signal vote, 3042, re-read. Please vote. [[16:55:36]] For 178. There are no votes under this bill. So let's move on to the next bill of order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u42	Let's get him back to the developer, this law, for redrafting, the author of the bill. Send the author. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, then I'm putting in bill 3042: draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of naphtha-gasogaso-drugs, on the basis of that. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3042 on the base. Please vote. Please vote on who supports this proposal, please. [[16:56:59]] For-182 The decision is not made. The law is rejected. Let's go to the next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u44	Let's move on. Dear fellow national MPs, may I have your attention? You have been introduced into your consideration the draft Law for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making (registration number 3700). Dear colleagues, this bill. The bill was introduced by five factions. Please take your seats, colleagues! Yuri Lucenko, Oleg Berezuk, Julia Timoshenko, Maxime Burbak, Oleg Lazko and Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party It is appropriate for the authors of the draft law to propose the draft law to vote in favour of inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor. In line with the order of the day, a proposal is made to include the day’s work and the decision - making process. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote on this proposal: inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Vote please, colleagues. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Vote. Please vote. [[16:59:16]] For 222 All right, guys, let's do it again. Attention! Attention! This is the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. Let's start talking now, let's talk. Please, Your Honor. Attention! Please, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, we vote. [[17:00:12]] For 210 No votes, 210. Dear colleagues, let's move on. There's going to be a faction manager's offer. I'll come back to that. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, attention, attention! 2669-d, a bill that we didn't vote on, you remember, was a signal vote, but we spoke in a second reading. There is a proposal to accept this draft Law in second reading and in general. Attention! Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the introduction of a contractual form of cultural work and a competitive procedure for the appointment of the Head of State or Municipal Cultural Institution, as amended by Mikli Knieżicky, under the transcript. Oh, I'm sorry, Ruslan Knazevitch and Irina Podowak. With these amendments in the second reading and in general, which were resonated under the transcript. Signal vote, please support this bill with those amendments. Ready? We vote that culture should be voted on. Let's support it, let's vote. Signal, please hold. [[17:01:39]] For 225 Colleagues, 225. I'm just asking you to be very careful. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I ask you to be very considerate, a signal vote of 225 votes, asking everyone to take their seats as fellow members of the national MPs. Please. And so 2669-d in second reading and in general with the proposals of Ruslan Knazević under the transcripts that were announced, and Irina Podowak. We're working, we're voting! Please support me in my second reading and in general. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! Careful! Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:02:35]] For 240 The law's been passed. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we had a number of decisions that were discussed, and they await their adoption. Question 2319a, question 2319a is the question of transparent privatization. All factions voted. All factions. We didn't physically have enough votes during the rating vote. Is there a need for Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich to remind or vote? 2319a as a base and as a whole. The rating vote. This law was followed up by all the deputies, and in fact all the inadequacies were removed. That's why I'm asking. Based on what? Based on the base. 2319a. Well, you've been working on it. It's "d," 2319a-d. Let's have a total rating vote. On the basis of 2319a. Let's, let's vote, colleagues, the rating vote. 2319a as a base and as a whole. Please be supportive. [[17:04:16]] For-182 Didn't you get your bearings? Because I can see that. Again! Colleagues! 2319a-d, it's already the MPs' revised draft law. Dear colleagues, let's go 2319a-d, let's vote on the basis. But I'd like everyone to take their seats. Three minutes, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, explanation by law again. Fellows, remember that there have been many inadequacies that you and I have changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you of the essence of this law. Many colleagues had warnings about the involvement of counselors in privatization. Revised law in a new version. I want to remind him once again that today the government can privatize, nothing forbids it. But to do that, he has to have a trial package, 5-10 percent put up in a stock market that doesn't exist today and that distorts the price, and which is essentially a way of acquiring free hair parts of Ukrainian property. And that reduces the cost that comes into the budget. The bill, which is proposed to vote, contains a rule on deletion that a whole object should be sold as a whole, without any parts sold in the stock market. That's the first thing that's really important. The second thing that prohibits participating in the privatization of the resident of the aggressor country. If anyone has other comments, please prepare a new law. But these very important norms, let's vote in a law that's numbered "d," which is not a government project, it's a project that's already being drafted. I see no reason why we did not vote in the first reading or in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a proposal to vote on the basis of the draft law. Part of the deputies have a different position on this matter. So I'm putting the bill's proposal for adoption on the basis of 2319a-d and I'm asking for this proposal to be supported, attention. 2319a on the basis of a signal vote. Please be supportive. [[17:07:49]] For 217 That was the basis, dear colleagues. Well, let's redefine 2319a. 2319a-d based, colleagues, based. The rating vote. Please take all your seats, colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention. 2319a Let's put the rating vote on the ground. Please be supportive. [[17:08:53]] For 232 Public enterprises, let's vote on the basis of this bill, 2319a-d, on the basis. Please vote. [[17:09:13]] For 237 The law was passed on the basis, after all. 3700, I'll put it in. Dear colleagues, I stress that we need to make public, absolutely public, transparent privatization rules as soon as possible. To prevent anyone from sitting on these state monopolies, state enterprises, and from robbing the country. Colleagues, please work on the committees, we will. Dear colleagues, 3700 draft law, at the request of faction leaders, the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, the proposal. At the request of the factions, project authors. 3700, a day's work for decision-making. Ready? Let's vote, 3,700, inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote, please support. [[17:10:37]] For 218. Let's take another look. We didn't make it? Dear colleagues, please, 3,700, intruding in the agenda and making decisions. Everyone concentrate, colleagues, we can't. We still have a lot of questions in order of the day. Please vote inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Vote, colleagues, 3700. Please be supportive. [[17:11:29]] For 225 That's better. Let's re-enter the agenda and make a decision, please. Vote. [[17:11:53]] For the 220. At the request of Oleg Valeriovich Lalashka, I once again put this proposal to the vote. Vote! Again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, colleagues. What's the matter? Aren't we voting? Well, good, if you don't just vote. We won't. Let's move on, fellows. 3224: The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship certifys a person or his or her special status aimed at liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. Says Alexander Danchenko. This law has already been discussed, but I will now give him three minutes to speak. Please, Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u47	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Documents certifying Ukrainian Citizenship (Registration No. 3224). I want to point out that the discussions on this bill have been over and over and over again, all the comments have been accepted. The Anti-Corruption Committee's observations were taken fully into account, and the other deputies' observations were taken fully into account. We discussed this bill several times. There were no deputies in the hall. This bill is the next way to practical implementation of the visa-free regime that our country so needs. I am very much asking you to support this bill. Several times he was discussed, all the amendments were accepted. I ask you very much to vote and support this bill 3224. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee provided information on this law. There is a proposal to adopt this law as a basis. Everyone concentrate, and now there will be a rating vote for adoption on the basis of the law. An important law was worked out. Signal vote. Is everyone ready to vote? 3224. Ready? Colleagues, 3224, signal, base. Ready? Let's vote on the basis. Signal vote. Please be supportive. [[17:15:24]] For 214 Colleagues, if we're careful right now, we're going to put this law on the ground. So I'd like to ask you, colleagues, very carefully. This is an important law, 3224. On the ground, that's all. More. Please concentrate, take your seats. 3224, ratings will now be based. Ready? Please vote on the basis of a 3224 rating vote. Vote, vote! [[17:16:08]] For 240 Yeah, 240. So I would like to now vote on the basis of this bill. Please vote. Colleagues, please don't leave. Based on the base. Please vote. Vote for base, 3224. Please be supportive. [[17:16:29]] For 238. Thank you, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u49	The following is Law 3084. This is a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the improvement of the system of government in the book - making field. I would like to remind the chairman of the committee, Mikol Knieżický, of the substance of the bill or of someone from the Committee on Professional Culture and Spirituality. Who will remember?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u50	Please, Maxim Burbak, there's a question, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u51	Dear Mr. Head, I do propose to return to the issue of the inclusion of Bill No. 3700 in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u52	Colleagues, there's still an offer, I would stress, there's an offer of the 3700 People's Front to return to this question. Is that a good offer? Okay. And now we're going to Act 2847: draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. Please read second.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u53	It's a second reading, and it doesn't need a special procedure. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and the National Relations of the Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich is invited to report. But he conveys the word to Valerius the Palace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u54	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you are being reviewed by Bill 2847, where the authorship, national deputies: Vinnik, Pashinsky, Chižmar, Kishkar, Timchuk, Garbus and Krivenko. What is the point of this bill? The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on November 11, 2015, recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. The bill deals with the establishment of a simplified procedure for granting citizenship to foreigners serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We should point out that we have adopted a bill that has already regulated the direct passage of the military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Ten amendments were made to the bill. Some of these amendments are already regulated by the legislator in the previous law. The committee today proposes to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, and to address these issues in part of the granting of citizenship to those who have protected our Fatherland in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I'm ready for the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u55	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have to go through the procedure for discussing amendments, although the debate on this bill is minimal, but nevertheless, I will have to announce all the rejected amendments. So 1st, National Deputy Wesselov. Don't insist. Cobbs. Don't insist. Cobbs. Don't insist. 4th, Markevich. Don't insist. 5th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 6th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. 7th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, Cobbs. Don't insist. 10th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. Thus, professional and quality work has been done. Most of the amendments are taken into account. And we can put to the vote for acceptance in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u56	Please support this bill as drafted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u57	Please prepare as much as possible for the vote. And I'm putting a signal vote on bill 2847 -- this is a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. Signal vote. Vote please, colleagues. 2847, signal vote. Please. [[17:21:49]] For 208 Colleagues, I ask you to invite people, the secretariat and the Supreme Council, and factions to invite fellow MPs into the hall. Is everyone focused? Did you take up jobs? I would like to re-vote 2847: draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act (to establish a simplified procedure for admission to Ukrainian citizenship of foreigners and stateless persons serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces). This is the support of our military! Signal, 2847. Please vote. [[17:22:51]] For 225 We've fixed this moment. We're on it. We're not leaving. One of us is involved in our difficult but important work for the country. One! Everyone, please prepare. I'm not going to put on a full vote right now, so pay attention. Please stop for a moment the discussion, take up jobs and vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act (on the establishment of a simplified system of admission to Ukrainian citizenship of foreigners and stateless persons serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces) (number 2847) on second reading and in general. We support our fighters, we vote. Please take part in the vote. Let's vote yes! 2847. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:24:02]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank the authors and thank their colleagues for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u58	Colleagues, there was a proposal for the "National Front" faction of 3,700 inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote, vote. 3700 in the agenda for decision-making, we vote. [[17:24:44]] For 213 Guys, I can do it one last time. It's an inclusion in the agenda you're talking about. Now we're putting into the agenda, we're starting a discussion, we're going to discuss this issue and we're going to make decisions, we're not making decisions right now, we're just putting it into the agenda, we're just putting it into the agenda. When discussed, you will be sure to speak, and when discussed, you will speak. Vote, agenda and decision-making. Ready? Vote. There will be a discussion. You will speak, go to the rostrum. What's wrong? How can we discuss things that are not included in the agenda? Vote, please support inclusion in the agenda. [[17:25:50]] For the 220. Come on. Oleg Easy, one minute. Calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am addressing my fellow MPs. An extremely important law that strengthens the responsibility of the parties to their electorates, formed lists, fooling voters before the elections, should be answered. That's why we're proposing increased responsibility to the electorate, the voter control over the party they voted for, and if the candidate for the MP was cheating before the election, so that after the election he could be removed, he could be excluded from the list. That's what citizens require -- control over the activity of power. That's what the law is about. Please support everyone who is ready to be controlled by the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u60	I'm stressing again, colleagues, look. We're looking at it now. Let's put this issue in the agenda for decision-making. Then we'll talk about it. Then you will decide how to vote on it. You want to vote, you don't want to vote, that's your question. But discussing things that are not included in the agenda is not realistically easy. One last time. Please vote. It will be included -- we will discuss it, we will not include it -- we will not discuss it. Ready? We vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. Come on, let's vote. [[17:27:51]] For 210 No votes. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, draft law. Draft Resolution on the Cessation of Powers of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine (3521). Paul Pinzenik reports. Please, Paul Vasilovich. People's Deputies Atroshenka. 3521, draft decrees. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Atrochenka People’s Deputies has already been discussed in the Plenary Hall. The point is that a national MP is elected by the city’s head. This position is incompatible with the authority of the national deputy. Please support the decision-making project and stop the parliamentary powers of the People's Deputies, Atroshenka Vladislav. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u62	Please, Your Honor. Atrashenko, 3521 on the basis and in general. Vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[17:29:35]] For 232 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. About giving consent and arrest. Please agree to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Clovis Sergey Petrovich. He's a reporter. Well, according to the pass, we're thinking that we don't have to look at it? Ruslan Knazevich. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u63	I'm not under arrest, I'm under arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of Prosecutor General Govdo Roman Mihajlovich, please, to the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Please serve as Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Grigorovich Sevruk. Attention, colleagues, attention! Dear colleagues, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine issued an order on 16 January 2016, on an annual vacation of 12 calendar days from 18 to 29 January 2016. During my vacation, I place my trust in the first deputy attorney - general of Ukraine, Sevruk Yuri Grigorovich. U.S. Attorney General Shockin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, national deputies and present! On 3 December, the Attorney-General of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for consent to be brought to criminal liability, detention and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Clovis Sergey Petrovich. The results of the pretrial investigation, the criminal conduct brought to the sole register of trial investigations on March 6, 2014, were a number of serious and particularly serious crimes. The investigation found that Yanukovic, Kluviv, and others had developed a plan of action aimed at legalizing the assets acquired by Janukovic and providing the last unjust gain. In order to make it impossible to return to the state property of the buildings and to build the Puscha Vodica holiday complex of the fair of Medjugorje, as well as the land in which they are located, he bought 100 percent of the shares of Tantalite. For the purpose of withdrawing from the founders of this company Litovchenko, who was directly involved in the illegal possession of Yanukovich specified property. At the same time, Kluev and others had no intention of actually exercising control, possession, use and management of property belonging to Tantalite. As well as the cost of purchasing 100 percent of the stake in the company’s constitutional capital, Januković was used to maintain the property for the needs of Januković. That is, he was given an improper advantage on a particularly large scale, namely, more than 146 million dollars. There is sufficient evidence in criminal conduct for the suspicion of Clovis Sergey Petrovich in the commission of property rights on a particularly large scale as a result of socially dangerous activities that prevented the legalization of money laundering. In addition to doing activities aimed at concealing and masking the illicit origin of such property, the rights to such property. Thus, the commission of a criminal offence is provided for in article 209, as well as in the commission of a criminal offence provided for in article 369 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. That is, giving a service person who has a particularly responsible position is not a legitimate benefit in a particularly large way. For the sake of a ministerial servant who offers no legitimate advantage and for the benefit of a third party, the use of a given position of service. A list of the evidence is given in the relevant submissions – these are also documents, such as contracts signed by the Clovis himself. Data on the movement of funds in enterprises controlled by the latter, surveys of persons, including those directly indicating the active role of the Clovis in the commission of crimes aimed at legalizing the acquired property. These evidences are collected solely with respect to the requirements of criminal and procedural legislation, and thus the submission contains both specific facts of criminal action and evidence that confirms the involvement of Clovis Sergey Petrovich in their conduct. In addition, there are clear reasons for the position of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for detention and the arrest of Clovis. If I don't take all the risks, there's only one fact. After receiving an agreement to bring criminal responsibility back in June 2015, Kljev left Ukraine on the basis of evidence from the judicial authorities and did not appear to the investigator. On June 4, 2015, he was declared state-owned. Therefore, consenting to his detention and arrest is a necessary measure to ensure criminal conduct and to establish the whereabouts of the latter. This will enable us to announce the latest and international search. To sum up, I ask you to support this submission and agree to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of Ukrainian National Deputy Klava Sergey Petrovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, five minutes to ask, sign up, please. Artemenko, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u67	Please pass the word to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u68	Oleg Easy, two minutes, please. Uh, Vineyard, two minutes, please. Artemenko and Lazko, two minutes together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u69	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Mr. Severuk, I have a very simple and very short question for you. Who are you going to arrest? You're the one who let the Cloak get away. When he was here, your boss, Attorney General Shokin, made a deal with Clovis. You've given the Clave the opportunity to speak here, from the rostrum, to be excused for the crimes committed by the Clave clan, as one of the pillars of the Yanukovic regime, you let him escape, you let him take out the money, and now you're telling him that you're going to arrest him. When you are. When Shockin, your supervisor, and his subordinates decided to arrest Moses, they did not need any discussion as with Clovis, they had to follow procedure. Instead of being one of the chief criminals of the Yanukovich regime, you are giving him the opportunity to escape, thus covering his crimes. And today you and Shockin, white and plump, are talking like we're about to arrest him. As they say, she remembered how she was a girl. You're late bringing the right things, and so you're complicit in Kluva's escape and the fact that Kluve will escape responsibility for his crimes. That's why I'd like to look to my fellow MPs on occasion. All of you, in fact, love on the air, from this important rostrum, in meetings with voters to talk about fighting corruption, and at the same time, almost 300 of you have not signed yet for the resignation of Attorney General Shokin, for the consideration of this issue. We all know that Shockin is compromising the country, and we all know that the Western partners in which we ask for loans require Shockin's resignation. And you, speaking of honorary colleagues, about fighting corruption, most of you still haven't signed up for his resignation, telling us that you want to change this country. Show your action and take an example of all the members of the Radical Party faction, of all the deputies of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u70	Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u71	Thank you for asking. In fact, Mr. Clovis’s arrest and detention were not a matter of concern. At present, all the evidence is gathered, including the risks that exist. Thus, care has been taken about arrest, arrest, and arrest for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u73	I wanted to pay attention to the sad message we received today. It reads differently: some say that the previous period of sanctions for Yanukovič and his followers has been abolished, others talk about the final lifting of sanctions. And when I heard that there was going to be an attorney general's office today, I was thrilled because, as I was taught at school and at university, they taught me in life that if you were unable to carry out your duties professionally, we would hear that Attorney General Shokin and all the management had resigned in connection with the inability to perform the duties imposed on them. Because in every civilized country, if the Attorney General hadn't been able to prove Yanukovic and his team guilty in two years, they would probably have been replaced. So in return, we get the story with Clovis, and I remind myself, I asked the question in the fall, too, why we don't arrest him. Then they said it wasn't a big deal. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u74	Please comment to the speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u75	Thank you for asking. So today, really, there's information that the European Court has canceled sanctions on individuals, well, this question is being studied for the time being. There is no formal confirmation, but as far as information is available, the sanctions remain cancelled in the previous period, which existed in 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u76	Can I put it in? Mr. Acting Attorney General, one day here in the Hall, when there was a Kluev in Ukraine, I spoke from this rostrum and stressed that if there was no arrest permit, he would leave Ukraine. How long did it take you to find these documents? How long do you need to find time for criminals in the previous regime? But when one of the members of the People's Front of Self-Defense, Andry Levus, called Medvedchuk a separatist, you quickly and quickly found a basis to open criminal conduct and open a criminal case. This is where you are fast and effective when it comes to people who have chosen the will of Ukraine on the barricades, the independence of Ukraine, which makes it possible for this Parliament and, I'm sorry, and you are also in this position. Please explain to all of us, for all of us, those volunteers who are now in prison, for those volunteers who are working very quickly and efficiently for the prosecution, why do we have two categories of citizens: criminals who have robbed the state, who have laid it down under Russia, criminals who have destroyed Ukrainian statehood, who have a very long, difficult procedure, full failure of the prosecutor's office, full failure of the Attorney-General's Office and such efficiency, and such operationality when it comes to those people who risked their lives, their health, their energy to gain the Ukrainian state? Give an answer for everyone, it's probably from all over the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm just going to complete my position, let all of us be judged, that Medvedchuk is a separatist, I've spoken, and every decent person in that room will confirm it. Put everyone in court! Open up all criminal cases!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u77	The Attorney General's office is not authorized to call someone a criminal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Office of the Attorney-General is conducting judicial investigations within the limits of its powers, and in the same way it has the opportunity to bring persons to criminal liability, detention or arrest. We have no right to detain or arrest any national deputy until agreement is given in the session room. So in this case, we turned to the Supreme Council in order to obtain such consent to Sergio Petrovich Klav. Another question was that during the investigation, if crime was established, trouble and appropriate submission were submitted to the Supreme Council. If they're not there, they won't. As far as I know, there's no submission for that MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u78	I just heard about it from Andrew Volodymyrovich. It seems to me that someone has no sense to commit such criminal offences on such grounds. I'm just giving my grade because of what's going on. Dear colleagues, we still have 24 minutes to discuss and everything. [[B in m in s a l in]] I suggest. We offer two minutes from the factions, if you don't mind, and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u79	In no case should the procedure be violated, for he will sue and cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u80	Colleagues, please! Thank you for answering the question. Have a seat, please. Please log in from factions. Two minutes from the factions and groups. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u81	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the Prosecutor-General's application for criminal liability in July 2015. Many MPs then asked the Attorney General why there was no arrest. The Attorney General replied that there was no reason for arrest. I'm sure 200 percent, the arrest wasn't for one reason -- because the Clovis was allowed to escape. Before that, he had his business, his money, and everything in the world. And after he fled peacefully to Moscow or Russia, today these heroes -- "the fighters with corruption" -- came and imitated the violent activity of fighting the corruption of Klav, which they released, now they're offering: let's arrest. Of course, the Radical Party faction will vote in favour of giving consent to the arrest of Clovis. But no one will arrest him because these corruption fighters allowed him to escape. Now. As for today's ruling by the European Court of Justice on the lifting of sanctions against Ukrainian officials, including against Clovis. This is a judgment of the current system of authority in Ukraine. It's a verdict from the Attorney General's Office. Following a similar decision by the European Court of Justice, the Attorney-General would not have to flee to America on leave where he is now, but would have to apply to Parliament for retirement because the Attorney-General cannot sit in office when no one in the Yanukovich regime is held accountable when the billions they stole are not returned to the State Budget, instead the prisons are filled with patriots, volunteers who protected the country. Today, in fact, the Office of the Attorney General has preserved corruption in the Attorney General's Office, of 160 prosecutors of different levels, the new ones appointed by the directors, there is no outsider nor of the system. So the really corrupt system of prosecutors continues to work, and we see this in the example of Clovis. That is why I appeal to the MPs not to embarrass Ukraine, to immediately resign the Attorney-General and immediately begin a real reform of the prosecution's organs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u82	Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u83	Thank you. Of course, what happens in today’s session room is what should have been long ago. Because if he had been arrested from the start, he wouldn't have been able to escape. But let's go to the root of what's going on. We have the sanctions lists of the European Union. And I have a question so far why there is no representative of the Rosukre Energo clan on the sanctions list of the European Union. Why don't we have Ljowczyn or Firtash or Boyko or Katsuba or Bakulin or all those who made gas and who have been allies of Yanukovic for many years, leading the ministries, leading the President's Administration and so on? All of these sanctions were formed in Kiev and then went to the European Union and they were already sanctioning the Ukrainian side. Why did not the acting prosecutor, Khehnproktor, send a name to the Rosukrenerego clan, a question to a person, to his conscience. As far as Clovis is concerned. I was very interested in this question, and it was really important for me to know if anyone who had released the Clovis from Ukraine had been punished. And you know, a few weeks ago, I got a response from the Attorney General's Office that no one was punished, who released the Clovis -- we don't know how he disappeared from the territory of Ukraine -- we don't know, the person wasn't installed. Thus, all healthy people have a clear suspicion that the Cloak was created by a green corridor to escape. And if we look at what's going on with the assets of Kluva now in Ukraine, how they're trying to sell them now, and how Kluev can get the money, how government banks are participating in these trials. I have a general suspicion that there's a conspiracy at the highest level, that he's going to get away with it, and that he's going to sell it, and someone's getting a commission out of what's going on. All that exists today in Ukraine is the cause of the irresponsibility of the authorities. So what Ukraine needs today is a full reboot. Ukraine needs the resignation of the Attorney General, the resignation of the Minister of Interior, the resignation of the Prime Minister and the full re-up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u84	Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. Yegor Sobolev, Self-help. Please, colleagues, invite a colleague to the Supreme Council Hall, and we'll vote. Invite the National Deputies to the Hall, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u85	None of the criminal prosecutions of high-level corruption, as well as the killings in Maidan, which were committed by more than a hundred, more than a hundred episodes, were brought to trial. One regarding former KMDA forefather Alexander Popov was sent to court and lies there without hearing. Everyone else, starting with Andrew Clovis and ending with Kolobov or Stavnitsky, is doing a wonderful job in Ukraine. Here in Parliament, the vast majority of people understand the situation. Everyone knows that in Vlad Parasuk today there is more chance of getting arrested than Victor Yanukovich. And there's no need for words. Parliament has the opportunity and there is not much time left to gather most responsible MPs, who will in a civilized way take Viktor Shokin, who is the personification of this sabotage, who is the personification of the paralysis of all investigations, both against corruption and against the people of Yanukovich, who have defended this corruption by killing people, can still be removed from office in a civilized manner. I have a huge request to Andrey Parubia and my friends, Maydan Self-Defense. Sign for the Attorney General's resignation. Along with my friends at the Peter Prashenko Block, from other political forces, let's do this civilizedly, people have given us the power of the national MPs to do this. Or we'll have to take them all down the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u86	Please, Andrew Levus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u87	Glory to Ukraine! I want all the volunteers and the revolutionaries who participated in the Dignity Revolution to come out here, and most of this room, it's going to be hard. But what I want to say to Mr. Sevruk and the Attorney General in general. These persecutions that are currently going on, the volunteer movement, the guys who came right out of Midan and took the machine guns and went to protect our state, we're not afraid of that. I want to take a look at this part of the hall: Mr. Novinski, FBI agent, Yuri Boyke, you know. A leap that killed just Eromandan in Odessa, who walks here like a rat, runs. All these things the Attorney General doesn't notice and she doesn't see them? But he sees volunteers, he sees patriots, he sees nationalists! We think you guys are playing! We don't want to ruin the situation in the country right now. But one more thing about volunteering, another blocking the case on those bastards sitting in that corner of the hall, we're going to use real radical action on you. Do you think some criminal ridiculous conduct will scare us? My friends, I've had eight criminal acts from the previous Attorney General. Where is he now? And you'll be there! Just get out of there! Please don't ruin the situation in the state. Such inaction with regard to the persecution of criminals of the past authorities and the persecution of the voluntary movement is provocation, and this is the raving of the boat of the state. You're gonna rock him, not us! You're gonna kick his ass! One more. Again I say, and here a friend of the commander said it. Medvedchuk is a separatist and a bastard! We demand his immediate arrest! We demand that he be immediately expelled from the so - called Minsk talks. Who Covers It? Whoever accepts it in the Bank will be responsible for it sooner or later. This person was standing near the sources of LNR and DNR, this person is still muttering separatist forums in Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u88	Finish up for a minute, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u89	We've been silent for a long time as Midan's Self-Defense, and we've been trying for a long time, you know, to find situations here to make sure there's stability. But there are limits. Recently, our friend from the 33rd Hundreds of Saints was arrested, who served in the Donbas Battalion and so on. It's already you're crossing the line when the guys who went to the grave both in Midan and there, you're planting them now. And these bastards come and laugh at us. Mr. Severuk, personally to you. Once again, you're going to cover up the bad guy Kaufman of Odessa, you know, this Russian firm Megapolis you're protecting, we're going to deal with you personally. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask everyone to take their seats right now. We need to vote, colleagues. We need to vote in the Attorney General's office. So I would really like to focus on this right now and vote eventually. Please take all your seats. Dear colleagues, I am putting to your vote the question of consent to, firstly, attention, colleagues, I ask very carefully, the attraction to the criminal responsibility of the national MP, Clovis Sergey Petrovic. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Please vote on the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Clovis Sergey Petrovich. Please vote, Your Honor, I ask you to support me, we vote. [[17:58:36]] For 222 Colleagues, pay attention. Colleagues, attention, please. I see, I see, I see. Take all your seats, colleagues. Colleagues, please. Please take your seats. Ready? Please reassert consent to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Clovis Sergey Petrovich, are you ready? Ready? I'd like everyone to support the vote. Please vote. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, please vote. [[17:59:37]] For 225 Colleagues! By accident? Please, colleagues, let's be responsible. An offer has been made, honourable fellow members of the national MPs, to give consent to the criminal responsibility of Kljev Sergija Petrovic. Is everyone clear on the offer? Please vote, colleagues, please support. Colleagues, please vote. Vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. [[18:00:34]] For 231 Keep your distance for a minute. 231 – decision adopted. The second position, the approval to detain a national MP, is the right thing to do. Cluey Sergey Petrovich, Clovis Sergey Petrovich, please vote. [[18:00:57]] For 228 Colleagues, pay attention! And next, consenting to the arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Clovis Sergey Petrovich. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:01:20]] For 228 The decision has been made. Dear colleagues, we may have worked so emotionally today, but I think we have made a number of very important decisions and have also concluded our decision to restore justice. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
