ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning. Good morning! Ten years. We go into the hall, we take jobs, we prepare for work. The registration will take place in one minute. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Flowers aren't mine, no. It's dangerous in that room to give flowers, I said. Colleagues ready for registration? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please register. [[10:02:54]] 326 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Vladimir Mikhailovich Katsubi. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of Alona Volodymyrovna Koscheyeva. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Dmitra Volodymyrovich Link. [[Applause]] Colleagues, today’s agenda is as we agreed on Monday’s Conciliation Council. There are two key system-setting laws at lunchtime: 2966-d, draft National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and utilities. Almost all the factions raised that question. Colleagues, we have a chance to adopt it today as well as the other Natural Gas Market Act. They stand for lunch, these are two important key laws. Oh, there's even a poster that confirms that. So today we have a chance. According to my information, there is agreement on this issue in the room, and we have a chance to accept it. After lunch on the question of decentralization, the issue of supporting local self-government. Just as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, so did the established agenda. If we work systematically and qualitatively, colleagues, we have a chance today to adopt a series of impeccable laws. And so I want to call on all the deputies, all the colleagues active and active today, to reject political opposition, to consolidate and demonstrate that the Ukrainian Parliament is not only able to make important decisions, but also capable of making important decisions. So, colleagues and I'm going to ask you from the very beginning, from the first question, we have the first social issues to start with, colleagues, with a reduced procedure. They're not too complicated to give us a good dynamic and a good pace. I'll ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure if it's your will and if it's your support. And I'm announcing the first draft of the law that stands in order today. This is a draft Act amending the Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on Social Protection of ATO Family Members (3339). And, colleagues, there's a suggestion that we look at it in a simplified way. And I'm going to go to my colleagues, and I'm asking my colleagues to support the proposal to consider Bill 3339 as a simplified procedure, colleagues. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote, please. I propose a review of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families on the social welfare of ATO family members (3339) - consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:07:04]] For 121 I'll do it again. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Once again, we welcome Alona's birthday. Mrs. Alona, Alona Volodymyr, the hall welcomes you to your birthday. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Once again, I am putting to the vote the 3339 motion for a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. So 3339 is a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:08:52]] For 139 I'll do it again. Please enter the hall and take your seats, colleagues. I'm asking you not to leave the hall, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. We're going to be so active, that's how we're going to be able to work actively. Let's show the dynamics from the very morning of our work. Colleagues, have you invited everyone into the hall? Jaroslav! Are we all ready to vote? So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to review the short procedure for the draft Law on State Social Assistance for low-income families (on the social protection of ATO family members). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please support, we vote. [[10:11:06]] For a hundred and Finally, we mobilized. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families (on the social protection of family members of anti-terrorist operations), registration number 3339, dated 16.10.2015. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to improve the social protection of anti-terrorists. The bill amends articles 1 and 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families and proposes not to include in the total income of a family that claims to receive such State social assistance, the provision of money for military personnel, members of the military and primary staff who are directly involved in the anti-terrorist operation at the time of its execution. That is to say, the ATO’s money is now included in the total income of the family, and such a family does not receive State social assistance to low - income families. The bill proposes to amend the law in order to increase the material status of these citizens and to provide real social support. It should be noted that a similar rule regarding the non - counting of the income of military personnel involved in an antiterrorist operation at the time of its execution is applied to the calculation and allocation of housing subsidies. Therefore, its introduction in the assignment of State social assistance to low-income families is logical and appropriate. The main science-expert department supports it. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the joint representative body, the national employers support the adoption of the bill. I also support the Main Committee on Social Policy. In view of the foregoing, I propose to support a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on the Social Protection of Family Members of an Anti-Terrorism Operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. And I want to make another message. We have today a reigning council that requires the adoption of Bill 4450 by Moskalenko Jaroslav Mihajlovich. If there's room will, we'll put it in the agenda if there's room will. And the committee, I'm sorry, we'll save the record: Melniczuk and River. From the committee to the report, the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna is invited. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask with respect to this bill, this legislative initiative that is now being developed and is very simple, but very important to our families, which have military personnel, who are now protecting our country and are participating in an anti-terror operation. There are such low - income families, and if the money is included in the declaration, the income determined to provide such assistance to the family will not receive such assistance. We are proposing with the author, and our committee supported this author in order not to take this into account in three cases: in total income, in the declaration and for the purpose of assigning this social assistance to a low-income family. We ask you very much to support this initiative and to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u5	Thank you. So please add the previous entry: two for, two against. The first one was signed up by Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u6	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Honorable citizens, honourable deputies, at last we are considering a law that will really enlighten and provide assistance directly to those involved and their families who really need it. Because what we've already assumed is that there are more than 200,000 ATO participants, and we've actually taken part in thousands of 40-45 is the maximum, and that's going to be a yoke for future generations. Therefore, we need to correct these mistakes, and it is this bill that points to those who are directly involved and will help their families when they do not have any responsibilities. The law is timely, and we will be able to support it with all our voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, the River Andriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Igor Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u9	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Igor Alexeyev, People's Front faction. Well, here's a perfectly clear, absolutely right initiative. We have to create those legal mechanisms, those guarantees of social protection for the families of ATO participants. These are the people who are protecting the statehood of Ukraine in eastern Ukraine, the ones who are giving a worthy reprisal to the enemy during an anti-terrorist operation. The bill is perfectly correct, the bill is absolutely correct in time. We should now vote on the basis and in general, create appropriate legal mechanisms for social protection for families involved in an anti-terrorist operation. And in this situation, I'm addressing all my colleagues, first of all those who are now blocking the rostrum, please vote for this bill, this is a bill that applies to anti-terrorists and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the final performance. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. In two or three minutes, the decision will be made. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Natalia Royal, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, dearly respected, we have 250,000 poor families in the country today, and we believe that a comprehensive, unified approach to the protection of children in poor families is urgently needed today. Because, yes, there was the right initiative of the author, and the Committee had considered the issue. And we believe - we need to make sure that this initiative is not just on paper, but that it works, but we do not have the right today to divide children into those who are involved in ATOs or who do not participate in ATOs, there are different reasons. For example, the children of displaced persons are in the same difficult situation today and we believe that resettlement payments should also not be taken as a formula for the social support of low-income families. Today, every day, we hear Marynka, Krasnogorka, Paulopol suffer the suffering of peaceful people there. We ask for urgent consideration of the social support of the people affected by the ATO, civilians. So, respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u12	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u13	Let us address this issue in an integrated manner so that this bill can be considered in the bill system in support of low-income families, and we are certainly prepared to support it in that regard. In this case, without further elaboration and proposals by the Committee, unfortunately, this bill will not work in that form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed. I'm asking you to come into the hall. And I want to go back to all my colleagues. There's a package of social laws. I am indeed calling on my fellow MPs to vote together on those bills on which fate depends, including our frontal fighters. We have other issues that we can discuss. This is clearly not the issue on which the discussions are to be held. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families on the Social Protection of ATO Family Members (number 3339) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:21:33]] For 218. I'll bet you back, company. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. These are overly responsible questions. Colleagues, five votes is not enough to make a decision. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Colleagues ready, may we vote? Can we? So, colleagues, I'm offering to go back. Thank you. Return to the vote in favour of the draft Law on State Social Assistance for low-income families on the social protection of ATO family members. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the vote, please vote with the group and together. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:23:11]] For 226 We're back, 226. Colleagues, please organize. By factions, please turn on. The factions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. Please take up your jobs. And I'm betting on the vote. Don't leave, colleagues, please. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families on the Social Protection of ATO Family Members (3339) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:24:11]] For 237 The law is passed. Colleagues, thank you all for your position of responsibility. This is really important. And I'm sure people appreciate it and understand it. We're going to the next bill, this is the bill. The previous law was passed. Decision taken. It's for the stenographer. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Provision of Assistance to Children of the Dead Custodian (No. 4668). And there's also a suggestion that we look at it as a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4668. Short-term procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:25:07]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is now stipulated that when a person, his children, or his dependent parents die, is entitled to a pension upon the loss of a breadwinner in the presence of a deceased insured person between 1 and 15 years of age. Yet, as the citizen’s appeal shows, not all have that kind of training and receive it. That's why. Yet, the State must take care of the child and support the family. That is why this is the order of our bill that, regardless of the family’s income, we pay for every child under the age of 18. which are under 20 years of age, State social assistance in the size of the minimum subsistence allowance for disabled persons, regardless of the insurance age. This is the type of pension that is assigned if there is such insurance. The committee reviewed the initiative and supported the bill. Thank you. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u16	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please, Cream, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a question that applies today to 22,000 families in which this child is raised alone and is not subject to the law on the pension after the loss of a breadwinner. So we, this is small costs, this is 150 million by the end of the year, we need the budget, so we're asking you very much to support the children's data so that we can still pay them for it. If this aid is paid and the child is disabled, it does not prevent him from paying the State and the aid, the disability pension for the child. So I am very supportive of the bill and I very much ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u19	Thank you very much. Balic Eugene Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u20	Please give the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, of course, this is a fair norm today, and we believe that it is necessary to support this bill, at least a little, to support the disabled children, the people who care for them. But we also want to draw your attention once again to the fact that today is not enough. Because today those children who become disabled as a result of the East War have no guarantees on the part of the State. They have no assistance and no support today. And we turn to the Hall, ask the President of the Supreme Council to consider the issue of social protection for citizens affected by the war. We ask you to consider comprehensively the protection and social support of the people who were deprived of benefits at the end of last year. Today, the Constitutional Court has already considered three appeals by the people's deputies to restore social benefits for Chernobyl, labour veterans and veterans of the Homeland War. Dear colleagues, we have a chance with you before we leave for vacation to consider the social package, to have a day of social protection in the Supreme Council and to make responsible decisions. Support children, index pensions, wages, revise tariff policies and consider price policies in the State. We have an opportunity with you to close this session, to make responsible decisions and to signal today to the whole country and to all people that we are adequate and that we are able to unite today to make decisions aimed at protecting and supporting people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u23	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill, because I have faced similar families on several occasions, and I see how difficult and sacred it is to care for such children and to lead them into full life and life. But I'd like to address you separately. Dear Mr. Head, Andrew Volodymyrovich! There, on the street, there are people standing on the street, there are doctors from the 16th health section in Chernobyl, where the problem is that Ivankovsky's district budget is subsidized, he refuses to take it on his own balance. A bill has been drafted by fellow national deputies from many different factions – 4450. This is really a huge problem. For 7 months, people do not receive a salary, and only their increased intelligence and sense of duty keep them from crossing paths. People yesterday, there are no drugs, and yesterday the last oxygen was spent on a heart attack patient. 79 doctors are on the seventh month without pay. There is Bill 4450, which, including a budget committee, is supported by the Ministry of Education. It's a huge request to put it in order of day, and to take a potential break so that we can vote it out. Please, it's a lot of people from different factions who support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Mr. Victor, I announced at the beginning of the session, this is the bill, it was standing in the order of the day, we just didn't get to it. Not once, but right after that, I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can move it and consider it now. I'm waiting for enough deputies in the hall. After this vote, if everyone is in the room and we can vote, we can put it in the agenda, we can vote and give an answer to our colleagues who are on the street. But in order to do so, it is essential that everyone enters the hall and prepares for making decisions. So we finished our discussion of the draft Law 4668. Now, we're going to move on to making a decision, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, may we vote? All the factions that have spoken have fully supported this bill is general support. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to provide assistance to the children of a dead breadwinner. Based on the committee's conclusion, 4668 is the basis. Dear colleagues who support this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:33:27]] For 245 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, as promised, I will now make a proposal that we be 4450, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (to increase the cost of medical assistance to workers in the alienation zone on the basis of a reserve of medical subsidies), so that we can move this bill forward and consider it now. He's in the daytime, he's got the committee's decision, he's got the support of all the departments of profile. Can we vote on that now, colleagues? Is there any general support for this? Colleagues, then I ask your attention, I'm putting a motion to vote to draft Law 4450 to be considered right now, this is a change in the order of the day. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, 4,450 now. Please, colleagues, we vote who supports. Please be supportive. [[10:34:44]] For 232 There's room support. We can move on to his consideration. I'm asking my colleagues to mobilize during the review, and I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:35:17]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I want the entire room to be consolidated. The bill is completely technical because in 2016 the specialized health and health section number 16 was put on the budget of the Ivankovsky region. Ivankovsky's district is the district itself, he can't keep his district hospital. This is one time. The second is that the specialized health section number 16 is located in the alienation zone, and the residents of the Ivankovsky district can't use the apriors there. And today, there is a situation where half a year without pay. Dear colleagues, I ask your support. The Ministry of Finance supports, the committee supports. That's a technical question, and we need to leave the health-care component to public funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I invite Gorbunov Alexander Volodymyrovich to the report, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. And the committee's position is to support this bill because it's necessary. On the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u28	Thank you. Please record two for, two against, please. Mamachure Julius Valeriyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u29	I give the floor to my colleague Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Julius. Dear colleagues, I have personally been on this medical unit several times, controlling the work in general of the alien zone. There are more than a dozen bills on Parliament's agenda that improve or modernize the work of the Alien Zone. At this point in time, it is an urgent matter to preserve the only medical component that provides health care in this area. I would like to thank you very much if all the national MPs join and support the People's Movement position on financing this medical unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u31	Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u32	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues, one of the speakers today has actually stressed that this is a technical law, but I want to stress that this is not a technical law, this is the law that our citizens, who are now under the Supreme Council, need. And when, dear fellows, we now hear the demands of our citizens, of our voters, who still require us to finance medicine, finance the health of our citizens, we just have to press the green button and support them. I don't think there's a person in this room who doesn't support that position right now. This morning, before the plenary session, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction of our faction -- the People's Front -- communicated with these people who are under Parliament and promised them personally that we would support such legislative initiatives. Therefore, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the People's Front, on behalf of the people of Ukraine, please support the changes to the state budget and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u33	Thank you very much. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! We will, of course, support this bill and consider it the right decision, but I would like to remind you that when you adopted the 2016 budget and we addressed you, we explained that there were too many mistakes in it, that these mistakes would then go our separate ways. And today, someone here is heroicly saying that he's been talking to people. And in order to finance the hospital and get paid, people have to come here, under the walls of the Supreme Council, and ask you, the people's deputies, to make absolutely legitimate decisions, and to correct those mistakes that you have made. So let's take a closer look at the issue, because today it's the problem of the alien zone. The issue of Chernobyl is very acute, because unfortunately you took social security from the Chernobyl people, you took people's support today, you took them out today, you deprived them of their medical examination, you denied them the rights of the Chernobyl widows to receive automatic social support from the State. And unfortunately, in six months, there was no courage in this House to correct that mistake. Therefore, we call on you to adopt the Chernobyl law, to return what you have earned to people in good health, to support the children of Chernobyl and the widows of Chernobyl, and to address the issue of the exclusion zone in a very complex manner. Because today. It's good that we're gonna help one hospital and one small settlement, that's great. But we understand that tens of thousands of such settlements remain unresolved. And this problem remains. Therefore, we call upon you to address the issue of Chernobyl in a comprehensive manner and on social protection and support for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. There'll be a vote in a minute. Everyone, please come into the hall. I've told the secretariat. Gorbunov, you've done this before. Again? One minute, please turn on Gorbunov. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, please note the committee's proposal. Please vote on the budget committee proposals given to you in the apps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u37	Thank you so much for the message. Colleagues, I have a proposition: when social laws go out, there's a political debate to be postponed. There are plenty of other venues for political debate. Let's, when it comes to social laws, military assistance, international reconciliation, let's demonstrate unity in both the vote and the debate. And, dear fellows, let's move on to making a decision. I would like to point out that on this issue is the agreement of all factions. And I'm addressing the factions that are also near the rostrum, that was our common position of all factions. I would like to point out that we also have unifying questions about decommunization, so this is a good reason for us to mobilize in the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 to increase the cost of medical assistance to workers in the alienation zone on the basis of a reserve of medical subsidy (number 4450) on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:43:30.]] For 252 Decision taken. Congratulations to those who have come to the walls of the Supreme Council. We've demonstrated the ability to talk. I welcome the author of the Moscow Bill, Mr. Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, and welcome the committee for its quality work. Dear colleagues, the law has been passed, we are now moving on to the next chapter of the agenda. Now we're going to go to the short but very important chapter. This is the end of decommunization, colleagues. We only have three decisions, they're simple, and there's actually agreement with the local communities. We have the naming of the areas of Mikolai, Odessa and Kharkiv, which are fully compatible with the local communities. This is also Decree 4907, 4751. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize, this is a matter of honour for the Ukrainian Parliament, and to support these issues and these rulings. And I put the first one on the table is 4907. And I'm asking you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[10:45:21]] For-167 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovic to report on 4907. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u38	Honourable National Deputies, in order to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council to reconcile issues concerning the renaming of individual localities and districts, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 6 July this year, further considered the proposals of the individual local authorities and the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance on the renaming of some of the localities of Mikolai, Odessa, Kharkiv Region and the Odessa Region Cominternov region in relation to the need to bring their names into line with the requirements of the Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and to prohibit the promotion of their symbolism. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issues and proposals of local government authorities, the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the Committee agreed: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First and Part Two, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the renaming of certain population points of the Mikolai district, Odessa, Kharkiv region, and the Odessa district. We also propose that a committee be appointed to prepare for the signing of this decision by the Head of the Supreme Council, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is there a desire to discuss whether we can vote? There's no one to discuss it. Vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Order to rename some of the population sites of Mikolaiivsk, Odessa, Kharkiv, and the Kointernov region of Odessa (number 4907) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:47:56]] For 212 Colleagues, I see we're not there yet. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I think decommunization is also a question that should unite us. I'll be back. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I think that decommunization is as important a question as it is for MPs who have positions today, so for all of us. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I think, are the issues on which we cannot, as a parliament, demonstrate incompetence. Colleagues, may we vote? I propose to return to the vote in favour of Decree 4907, decommunization agreed with all local communities, supported by all local authorities. Anyone who supports the offer to return, please vote. 4907. Please vote. [[10:49:40]] For 223 Colleagues, what's going on, colleagues? Local communities have decided to rename and adopt Ukrainian names. These MPs who are in the room don't fit, don't vote, are they in favour of decommunization or are they against it? I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. I'll put it back in order to return to Decree 4907. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. And I'm going to renegotiate 4,907 to the vote. Colleagues, please vote for return to 4907. The proposal is consistent with all local communities. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:51:28]] For 232 232 for. Colleagues, I very much ask you on these matters, I think everyone has to stand shoulder to shoulder. Not at the rostrum, but at their workplaces, colleagues, and to vote. It's a matter of honor for Ukraine, before our previous generations. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order to rename some of the populace of Mikolai, Odessa and Kharkiv regions and the Kointernov region of Odessa (4907) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please, colleagues. [[10:52:21]] For 231 Decision taken. The next Order 4751 is "To name individual locations and areas in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetské, Lugansk." I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Who will support this proposal, please vote. Please. [[10:52:59]] For-200 200 for. And I invite the head of the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u40	To carry out the commission of the Supreme Council to reconcile issues relating to the renaming of individual locations and districts. The Committee on State Building and Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on May 11, this year, reviewed the proposal made by the local authorities of the local self-government and the recommendation of the Ukrainian National Institute of Memory to rename some of the inhabited areas of Zacarpathian, Odessa and Chernig regions in connection with the need for their names to be included in the Decommunization Act. In particular, the committee considered the proposal of the Dragivian Rural Council of the Zakartat district of Zakartat district to rename the village of Jótnev to the village of Zabrze, and the proposals of the Red - Vietnamese Rural Council to rename the village of the Red - Noticed District of the Odessa region to the village of Znamjanka. The committee also considered the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory to rename the village of Petrovka in the region of Chernigiv to the village of Nechtivka. According to the Institute's 27th anniversary of the October 10th coup, the village of Nechnovka was renamed the village of Petrovka in honor of Peter Dzibal, a person who is involved in the establishment of Soviet power in Montenegro. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issues, taking into account the proposals made by local government authorities and the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept as a basis and as a whole a draft decree on the renaming of some of Zacarpathian, Odessa and Chernigian sites. — Registration No. 4651. In preparing the decision to sign for the Supreme Council, we propose that the committee be tasked with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council for technical and legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, do you need to talk? Vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take their seats. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs and I'm asking you to prepare for the decision. I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to these votes. Ready, colleagues? Thus, it is the Order to Rename Individual Populations and Areas in Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas of Donetsk and Luhansk Region (4751). Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote of Decree 4751, as proposed by the committee, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:56:16]] For the 220. I'll put it back once. I'm just asking you, colleagues. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll call my colleagues, I'll put them on return. Is something important? Head of the committee, one minute. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u42	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I have considered, I have read Bill 4651, not Bill 71, and 51, 4651 is Zacarpatska, Odessa and Chernigiv region. And 4751 are occupied territories, this is another bill. That is why it is now necessary to draft Bill 4651.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u43	4651, and the next one will be this one. So I'm going to vote back to draft regulation 4651, please vote, please support. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[10:58:18]] For 221 Colleagues, please turn on the factions, turn on the factions. Please. Please, one minute of the Lako Radical Party, and please come into the hall and take your seats. One minute, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. The Radical Party faction of the second month is protesting by demanding a reduction in tariffs, making decisions that will enable people to pay the utility. We demand to investigate corruption and offshors of senior officials of the state. We're in opposition to power before the socio-economic course of power. But at the same time, the Radical Party is not opposed to Ukraine. The question of decommunization, we think, is a key issue for restoring national consciousness and for establishing the Ukrainian state. So we're going to support all of the projects related to decommunization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u45	Thank you. We'll wait for the Radical Party to take its place. Mr. Oleg. Thank you, thank you for your position. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 4651 as decided by the committee on the basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please. Anyone who supports the motion to return to vote 4651, please vote. Please vote. [[11:00:56]] For 238. Decision taken. We're voting now, colleagues. I'm voting on Decree 4651. Oh, no! They just voted, didn't they? We're back. Now I'm putting it on the ground as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. 4651. Please vote. [[11:01:28]] For 238. Decision taken. Hello. Another decision that has already been announced is 4751. She too is reported by Fedoruk. First vote, summary procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please, 4751, summary procedure. [[11:02:01]] For 199 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have to endure procedural moments. A brief report by the committee head, then put to the vote. Please, Fedoruk, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, very short, very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee discussed at its meeting on June 1, this year the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute on the need to bring the names of the village of the Red Fahr of the Bahmacht region, the village of Cominternov of the Volnova region, the village of the Red Star of the Preval region, which is in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Decommunization Act. And also the clarification of some of the regulations of the Supreme Council of May 12 concerning the definition of the category of the Red Party site, it was written: the village, and this is the city of the Red Party. And the proposal to rename the village of the city type Frunze to St. And he's proposing to the Supreme Council a draft decree (number 4751) to be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u47	Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote, come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Order to rename individual locations and areas in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions (4751) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:03:57]] For 235 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, we've actually completed all the questions we've had. There's only one question left: questions of Kirovograd, colleagues. I'm asking you a lot right now I'm going to put up a rating vote, guys, we can't fail it. I am very much asking you to consolidate all the halls, gather all those who are in the hall, and show the political field and the ability of the last point of decommunization that is in Ukraine so that we can vote. I'm asking you very much, company, everyone in the hall, everyone in the workplace. I'll put it on the ratings first. Colleagues, number 4222, but first I put the ratings, see the potential. Friends, colleagues! We were approached by military members of the ATO, our heroic specialist in the city of Korovograd, who asked us to resolve the issue. We were approached by a large number of public organizations. Please come into the hall, my friends. I'm voting for 4222 bills, 4222. I ask you to take part in the rating vote and please support me, colleagues. 4222 – rating vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:34]] For 235 Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 4222. Briefly, boys: 150 is a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:05:57]] For 228 We've got it. I've already done the report. Society, I've already done a report on this issue. I'm voting on a draft decree bringing the city of Kirovograd to the Ukrainian Decommunization Act (4222) as a basis and as a whole, colleagues. On the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:06:29]] For 230 230 for. Decision taken, colleagues. Congratulations, colleagues. We're under the law. The law is passed, the decree is passed. We went all this way, we gave the necessary time for reconciliation. We've taken the entire legal route of decommunization. Today, Parliament has shown that this is the Ukrainian Parliament, which is capable of making decisions. And we have completed our part of the decommunization of parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you to the Radical Party, Fatherland, for stopping the blockade and going back to work. It was important, it was a responsible decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to stay at your places of work. We continue our work. So the committee's decision was Kropivnicki, as of today Kirovograd is called Kropivnicki, Kropivnicki. Colleagues, can we go back? I'm told by the committee's head, we need to rename the area, we need to rename the area. That's a question that we can handle technically afterwards. Dear colleagues, we've talked these days about a very important issue, this is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Paris Agreement. This is an extremely important question to which were the presentations of all the committees. So, colleagues, please mobilize. We waited for the committee to make a decision. Yesterday the committee took a decision and we can put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Paris Agreement. Please, it's the next one in the daytime. I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please ratify the Paris Agreement, please vote, summary procedure. [[11:09:01]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Mr. Ostap, how comfortable you are. Let's get out of here. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, our presence today stands before the ratification of the Paris Agreement, the new global climate agreement. No exaggeration, it's a key choice of Ukraine that shows -- either we're among countries that are catching up to the world, or we're among those countries that are shaping the order of the day and the world's trends. The president of Ukraine made his position clear. The bill of ratification of the Paris Agreement, which I present to you today, is one of the tops in the order of the day. The ratification of the Paris Treaty by Ukraine shows that our country takes the problem of climate change seriously and is ready to act decisively to solve it. Second, this will contribute to the positive international image of Ukraine. And thirdly, this will give a clear signal for cooperation between international organizations and technical assistance projects. In Ukraine, there are sound socio-economic preconditions for the ratification of the Paris Agreement, as well as the need to take advantage of the great opportunities that this ratification will give us in the modernization of the economy, and will enable Ukraine to stand on the path of low-carbon development and take steps to adapt climate change. Nature itself moves us to make the right decision. 2015 has become the warmest year of world observation and has unfortunately taken thousands of lives. And as early as 2016, all the world’s heat records broke in February and May. Understanding the impeccability of the problem of climate change demonstrates the signing ceremony of the Paris Agreement. 175 countries -- that's the record -- signed the deal on the first day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u50	Please let me finish, Mr. Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u51	Thank you. I want to urge everyone today to make their choice outside of politics, outside the economy, because today it's about choosing for the benefit of the lives of our future generations. Thank you, please support the ratification of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u52	Thank you, Minister. And to put it, the co-report invites Mrs. Hanna Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u53	Respectable citizens! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered yesterday the draft Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement introduced by the President of Ukraine and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council support the bill as a whole. This is the first such precedent that, within two days of the President's submission to Parliament, we are ratifying this important agreement today to show the world that we are shaping the agenda for environmental protection. I also want to say that Ukraine is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and for two years, this and the next, apart from our strategic tasks, is the struggle for territorial integrity. And also for our sovereignty within the United Nations, we also offer order of continuous development and in particular this climate agreement. As a result of the ratification of the Paris Treaty, Ukraine will join an international legal instrument that will change the Kyoto Protocol and provide that each party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will take steps to combat climate change according to its capabilities. Ukraine will enter the first 20 countries to ratify. And thanks to this rapid ratification, we will also be able to enter into the coordination bodies of this convention and also to continue to influence the United Nations. Now, 19 parties to the convention, with a total of 0.18 global greenhouse gas emissions, have already ratified the Paris Agreement. So I would like to support and thank all the parliamentarians who have made the effort here. And Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. And Alexia Rybchina. And Minister. And the Committee on Environmental Policy, energy. That's what we've really shown here that we can work as one national assembly. What's important to the state, in particular, this environmental protection and climate agreement, is that we're here and we're ratifying it today. I therefore call on the Chamber to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and to adopt this bill as a whole, because it is a future agreement for our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please record from our venerable factions "for" and "against" two people. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, from the Peter Prashenko faction of the Jurik People's Deputies. As far as I can tell, he's giving the word to the national deputy Nedava. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u55	No, it's not. I give the floor to the People's Deputy of Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u56	Dombrowski. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we must no doubt support this decision, ratify the agreement. But at the same time, it is very honorable to be one of the first in the world, demonstrating that the Ukrainian Parliament is responding very quickly to the global challenges that are in the world. But we have to understand and realize that this is a huge responsibility and a huge challenge to the Ukrainian economy. Because we have to modernize our industry completely on other environmental standards, and it's not just about the metal industry, it's not just about the chemical sector, it's about the energy sector, which is the key to Ukraine's economy. I regret to say that today the draft Law on the Electricity Market, which is critical to us, has disappeared from the order of the day in the first part. And we need to understand clearly that ratifications today will make us move a lot faster on the path of real reforms, including the energy sector of Ukraine, because we will have to respond to the challenges of coal, coal, and heat generation, which are in a very critical state. So in support of this decision, I call for a vote in favour. But we have to understand that those bills that are in the green energy room, in energy efficiency, we have to take it much faster than we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u58	Thank you. And all we can do is support your constructive position, the honourable representative of the Peter Dusty Block, because we really need to combine, find compromise between solving environmental issues and supporting our economy. And thank you for supporting the bill. And now for the representative of the People's Front of the People's Republic of Savichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u61	Good afternoon, fellow believers. We're also going to support the People's Front faction's ratification of this agreement and ask the entire room to vote in favour of this ratification. Ukraine, having signed the Paris Agreement in 2016, became a part of the fight for climate change and sustainable economic development. Each side of this agreement will do its utmost to combat climate change within its capabilities. Ukraine, it is worth noting, will not have financial obligations, but will take steps to ensure climate change, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and support the steady development of the economy. Ratification will enable this agreement, Ukraine, to involve donor assistance in the first place, as well as a good signal for investors to invest in energy, industry, production, to ensure the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as to ensure the sustainable development of the economy. So I think that Ukraine should use this opportunity to modernize the economy, to invest, to improve the economic situation in the state. By ratifying this agreement, Ukraine will become the country’s founder of the Paris Treaty, which also has a very important international reputation for Ukraine. So we ask everyone to support the ratification of this agreement, and we will vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block. Turn on Mrs. Queen's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we support this ratification. And the Opposition Block will vote in favour. Put the man away, please. It will vote in favour of this ratification. The only thing I want to do is talk to you. Let's think about it, we're working last, there, hours, days, in this session, and people are waiting for us to make the right decisions. That's what people think of us today. Here is the time to rename cities, and there is time to ratify, well, such far-reaching projects. But there is no time in this room to consider the tariffs, wages, pensions and prices that are in Ukraine today. And there is such a complete impression that our Government, the coalition of parliament, simply do not know what to do when the names of cities, streets and monuments that they have not yet broken. Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us form an adequate agenda for tomorrow, and let us return to the questions that today require consideration by the people to whom we are obliged to give honest and fair answers. And by working on the principle of “no bread — come on, come on, ” such principles are no longer understandable to humans today, because there is no more bread, no work, and no confidence in tomorrow. We therefore call upon you to consider a package of social bills, to include them on the agenda, to join forces to do so and to make the responsible and important decisions today that are necessary for every citizen of our country. And then we'll have time with you both on the streets and on the monuments and all the necessary ratifications. But let's go back to the social agenda in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u64	Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich. This is the last performance. I ask everyone to come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall. In three minutes, the decision will be made. Please, Mr. Alexei, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u65	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction will unanimously support this important bill. And I can tell myself that this is a very exciting moment for me because 10 years ago, when I was still writing a dissertation at the University of Donetsk on the Kyoto Protocol, and now I can be the legislator to ratify the post-Kyoto Treaty of Paris. But I get it. It's clear that when our boys, our heroes lose their lives every day on Donbass, it's very difficult to communicate the subject of climate change. But when you talk to people not about climate change, but about the opportunities that the Paris Agreement offers for green investment, about increasing energy efficiency, about renewable energy, about green jobs, about low-carbon technology transfer, people become proponents, and they understand that this is the future, it's the future for us, for our children, and for our grandchildren. But I agree with Mr. Dombrovski, the head of the Energy Committee, that in order to take advantage of the possibilities of this agreement, we, as a country, need to make very large and significant transformations. Because unfortunately, the money that was given to us through the Kyoto Protocol was either stolen or stolen, and now there are so many corruption scandals that are connected or lost, we have returned them. They returned the money instead of investing it in energy efficient transport, in order to change trams, trolleybuses, make a park, for example, not on petrol engines, but to make electric buses in our cities and simply transform our places, about what famous professionals and environmental organizations say. That's why we need to synchronize our energy strategy, our environmental, our low-carbon economy, and we need to work very hard. We have appropriate experts, but the institutional capacity of the state must be strengthened. That's why the Fatherland faction is going to support this decision unanimously, but it's just the beginning of our green transformation. We support you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, we go into the hall, we take jobs. I now give the final word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a few very symbolic moments. In fact, the signing of the climate agreement was the first such important act since the formation of a new government and, in fact, the appointment of a new minister of ecology, who should only be thanked for seeing this increase in cooperation with Parliament today on environmental issues. And it is very important that perhaps for the first time in many years, the Ukrainian Parliament is so systematic in dealing with environmental issues today. At various ends of the hall today, reforms were discussed. So it's, dear colleagues, and it's a real environmental reform that we're giving so much attention to in the first topic of ecology this week and we're taking it systematically. And I want to thank you now because all the factions present in Parliament have expressed their support for the vote, for the Paris Climate Agreement, which really opens up a very wide range of new possibilities, including technical ones, for Ukraine. Because we're going to enter the first twenty countries to ratify the treaty. And this is a great example of Parliament, which sometimes, you know, has not been able to ratify important international agreements for years, for the first time, we demonstrate that we can ratify the agreement that came out of the President of Ukraine expeditiously, reviewed by the committee promptly and, in fact, only three months after signing the ratification. Let's all support it and vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u68	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement 0105 on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Dear colleagues, these are our international obligations, and I very much request that this vote be taken by everyone responsible, regardless of factions. Colleagues, therefore, who supports the draft Law on the Ratification of the Paris Agreement (10105) as a whole, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:25:26]] For 279 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. We have demonstrated both unity and the ability to make decisions. Colleagues, we now have two short questions. Really short, and we can go straight to 2966-d. Look, these are parliamentary hearings on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and their families" (4854). I'm asking you very much, let's listen briefly to the committee head and support it quickly so that we can make it through that path. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider 4,854 on a reduced procedure. I'd like to vote on a reduced procedure, please. [[11:26:27]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATOs, and people with disabilities from Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u70	Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u71	Good day, distinguished national deputies, more than two years after the Dignity Revolution, in which 107 families lost their loved ones and loved ones, and even more of our citizens suffered bodily harm from various degrees of severity. Unfortunately, for more than two years now, blood has been shed in eastern Ukraine, where our citizens have been at the cost of their own health and life to defend the territorial integrity of our nation. Of these, more than 237,000 persons have already received the status of wartime participants, three thousand and 54 persons with war disabilities, over 6,000 ATO family members have been granted the status of a dead family, and enough time has passed to sum up today and evaluate what has been done by the State for its supporters, members of the ATO and the Dignity Revolution, as well as members of their families. To this end, members of the Committee on Veterans, participants in hostilities, ATOs and people with disabilities are initiating parliamentary hearings on 19 October 2016 on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and members of their families: status and prospects." I am addressing all the MPs, the factions of the democratic camp, to support the bill and to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u72	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I don't think there's any need for discussion. We can vote. Isn't it? There is no one who wants to speak. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. These are parliamentary hearings to help us organize these matters. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I very much ask everyone to prepare for the vote, please. And I'm betting. I don't think there's any political issues here either. I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "State guarantees of social protection for participants in the ATO, the Dignity Revolution and members of their families: status and prospects" (number 4854) at the suggestion of a committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please. [[11:29:17]] For 227 It's been decided. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee for the quality work. And the verdict is in. Colleagues, the next is the issue of our international obligations. We put it a couple of times yesterday. Unfortunately, we were unable to pass that vote. This is "To implement the United Nations Security Council Resolution on the Common Comprehensive Action Plan in the Sectoral Sanctions". These are our international obligations. We have to go through this question, which is not complicated, but there were just not enough deputies in the room. Colleagues, I'd like everyone's support, too. Colleagues, this is the approval of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council. It is simply the responsibility of our country, and I ask everyone to vote for it. So I'm going to make an offer: putting the day session in order to make a decision. I need 226. So I ask you to vote responsibly. Who supports the inclusion of the day session and the adoption of decision 4825, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. The international commitments of our country. Vote. [[11:30:41]] For 210 Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Please turn on the factions. And I'm asking the MPs to mobilize. Well, colleagues, those near the government, Mr. Arthur! I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put it again. I'm counting on more support. So I'm going to put it again. Who supports the inclusion of the day-to-day session in order to decide whether or not to approve the decision of the ORP on sectoral sanctions that supports the decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:31:44]] For 221 Well, four votes. Are they in the hall or not, four votes, colleagues? Please come in, sit down, colleagues. I refer to the heads of factions as a responsible decision for our international obligations. I ask you, colleagues, not to neglect discipline in such a decision. Are we ready to vote, Mr. Igor, Mr. Jaroslav, ready to vote? I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. I'll put it again, colleagues, if there's no political will, let's move on to 2966. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. And I'm once again putting the agenda into order for the decision 4825 on the implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution on the United Nations Joint Comprehensive Action Plan on Sectoral Sanctions. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, support. [[11:32:57]] For 223 I'll give you a minute. No, no, guys, there's no discussion. 30 seconds, invite the deputies into the hall, and we vote, colleagues. The faction heads, the profile committee, I see, all we have to do is be at the session during the session. Please, in the hall. These are the international obligations of the State of Ukraine, not of a faction, not of a political party, but of the State of Ukraine. When we hope that our partners from Europe, from the United States, are supporting us in sanctioning Russia, they expect the Ukrainian state to support them as well. When we wait by the remotes, if the parliaments of other states accept the issue of sanctions on Ukraine, some are waiting there just as long and will not wait for that decision just because some have gone out for a smoke or a cup of coffee, my friends. I ask here to feel part of a free world that is responsible. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session to take a decision on the draft Decree 4825. Please vote, please make a decision. 4825, please vote. Please. [[11:34:45]] For 225 It didn't work, I see, colleagues. Colleagues, 4825, setting up a day session for decision-making. Please, 4825, please vote. [[11:35:22]] For 224 Colleagues, I don't want to be embarrassed anymore, I'm sorry. 'Cause in the end, we're just embarrassing the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, do you have a warning to him? There's no warning. Then call the deputies straight into the hall. Just call the MPs, please. I can see we didn't make it. I'm waiting, I'm just waiting, guys. Colleagues took up jobs. At this point in the discussion, everyone will be able to express their position, the word. There will be voices. Colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of the draft Law 4825. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Everybody in place? Vote, 4825, please. Include in the agenda of the day session. To make a decision. [[11:37:31]] For 231 Decision taken. It's a victory, of course. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please. [[11:37:56]] For 207 And I invite you to the report. Decision taken. Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Artura Volodimirovich. Please, from the place, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On July 20, 2015, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution No. 2231, which agreed on a comprehensive action plan. At the same time, the Security Council confirmed that the implementation of the above-mentioned plan will contribute to strengthening confidence in the exclusively peaceful objectives of the Iran nuclear programme and development with that State of normal economic and trade relations. According to the resolution, the provisions of previous UN Radbez resolutions on Iran’s nuclear programme are terminated. Compared to previous resolutions, the UN Resolution establishes a smaller set of restrictions on the transfer of certain groups of goods and measures related to nuclear activity. Such restrictions extend to all without exception from the State, since, in accordance with Article 25 of the UN Statute, Security Council decisions are binding on all Member States to implement them. In view of the above, on 16 June 2016, the President of Ukraine introduced a draft Decree No. 4825 on the approval of the decision of the National Defence Security Council of Ukraine of 20 May 2016 on the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution of 20 July 2015 (No. 2231) on the Common Comprehensive Action Plan for Sectoral Sanctions. The content of the sanctions will include, inter alia, obtaining prior permission from the UN Security Council for direct or indirect supply, sale or transfer to the Islamic Republic of Iran from Ukraine or from Ukrainian citizens of any dual-use goods that may be used to create nuclear weapons and any military supplies. The approval by the Supreme Council of the relevant decision provided for in the Ukraine Sanctions Act will promote nuclear non-proliferation and exclusively peaceful use of nuclear energy by the Islamic Republic of Iran. So, given the above, I ask you to support the draft Decree No. 4825 on the approval of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u74	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u75	Approval of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 20 May 2016 to implement the United Nations Security Council Resolution of 20 July 2015 (No. 2231) on the Common Comprehensive Plan of Action for Sectoral Sanctions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u76	Thank you, dear colleagues. Please give the floor to a report to the head of the profiling committee, who gives the word to his colleague, National Deputy Winniku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u77	You know, dear colleagues, I think our international partners are very surprised to say that they're looking at what's going on in the Ukrainian Supreme Council. You know, we're about to close this session, so many of our colleagues are going to be running on air and telling us that we need international support, that we need to reinforce sanctions, that we need to give weapons, that others are going to say we need IMF loans. You know, what are we actually doing in Ukraine to meet our international partners? Well, everyone knows that a long period of effort by the world’s leading countries has been made to ensure that the Islamic Republic of Iran’s nuclear program has purely peaceful goals. And you know very well that the United States and Britain play a leading role in this issue. These are the two countries that are now the closest partners to implementing, defending, retaining sanctions against the Russian Federation. But why can't we just solve a pretty simple question ourselves. You know, it's very embarrassing to look at this when some people are lying under the bleachers, others are demanding the introduction of some temporary offshore investigation committees when they have the names of offshore companies that are already published by the New York Times. You know, let's focus now, it's a simple question, let's go through it quickly and move on. And we're not just going to rename cities now, we're going to call Kirovograd Kropivnicki, but we're going to do something really to develop the Ukrainian economy, support the Ukrainian army and support our defenses, which unfortunately today are under powerful enemy fire. Let's focus, let's vote, let's keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u78	Thank you, fellow believers. I'm asking you to sign up for factions 2 in favor, 2 in front. And to fully support the actual preceding talks about the discussion that is now taking place in this room. First, when Ukraine stands apart from world processes, it is impossible to explain to our world partners. And when there are voices under the rostrum that these are Iranian sanctions, not anti-Russian sanctions, please excuse us, we live in a civilized European country, not the area. And we need to support by our votes the world's decisions, where there is a clear response, a clear position in this case of the UN Security Council. And the second key question is that supporting these Iranian sanctions also opens the Iranian market for Ukrainian companies. Here, all the fighters for the Ukrainian economy, let's vote a little bit while we actually support our Ukrainian producer, who might find the same new market. Thank you. And please, Mr. Highlander's word from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u79	Thank you, colleagues. Mrs. Vice Speaker has already said first that this is a matter of our international obligations. So we're going in the middle of our international policy. If the UNB, if the UN, if the United States, are asking us to support the lifting of sanctions from Iran in part, we should do it because it is our international image. But what Mrs. Heratchenko has said is that if we're starting the process of lifting sanctions from Iran, we're taking a friendly step towards Iran. And we're opening up this market, the 80 millionth market, also for our producers. It's also an agricultural product, and we have people lobbying, in a positive sense lobbying, the interests of our producers, that's metallurgy, that's high technology. Iran has been under sanctions for decades. It's an 80 million dollar market for Ukrainian goods. And if we don't do that, if we don't show a friendly step towards Iran, then put all these goods, you know who's going to be on that market? Russia. Now we're making a footstool for ourselves if we don't vote for it. So I'm asking the People's Front faction to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. Are there any other factions willing to make a statement, because only the People's Front has signed up? None. I then invite all the deputies to the session room, because there will be a vote now. Please come into the session room. Dear colleagues, we are now waiting for our esteemed speaker, who also wanted to join the vote on this important issue. And once again, I appeal to all the people's deputies to come to the session hall, because there is going to be, in fact, an extremely important vote that testifies to the willingness of the Ukrainian Parliament to comply with our international obligations. Moreover, Ukraine is today a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and we have no reason not to support this decision, and it will look strange from the point of view of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please go to work, colleagues, friends, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 20 May 2016 "To implement United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 2231 of 20 July 2015 on the Joint Comprehensive Action Plan for the Sectoral Sanctions Section No. 4825, as decided by the Committee, I request its support, the ruling, as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote in whole 4825. Our international commitments are to support all, colleagues, regardless of factions. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:47:32]] For 225 I see we haven't made it. Now I'm going to put it back, please, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to go back to 4825 and I'm going to ask you to be careful and vote carefully, colleagues. I ask you to return to vote 4825, please vote in favour. Please, colleagues, we're voting. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:48:18]] For 231 Decision taken. And once again, I'm putting in draft Decree 4825, the whole decision-making process. Colleagues, please vote 4,825 in general, please vote. Please, colleagues, we are voting together and we are responsible. [[11:48:46]] For 231 Decision taken, decision taken. Welcome to the House. Welcome to the National Deputies. Now, dear colleagues, I want to explain one thing to you and ask for your support in the hall. Don't split, there'll be a vote! Colleagues, don't leave the hall. We are now in the 2966 agenda, which was discussed at the Conciliation Council. There are many amendments. I'll have an offer for us to work without interruptions 12-12.30. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can leave because there's going to be a lot of changes. Colleagues, I'll take care of it. I'll put it in, and you'll figure it out. So whoever supports the work without interruption from 12 to 12.30, please vote. Anyone who supports the work without interruption, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:49:51]] For 199 Shall we try it again or not? No, it's not. So let's move on to "Other Readings." We are now looking at a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Then there's 2966-d in that chapter. So it's me. It's a second reading, it doesn't need a reduced procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u82	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces the draft Law, adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council on June 2, 2016, number 4437. The draft law is defined by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Law defines the characteristics of land use, special water use, urban activity, air protection in the area of alienation and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction with a view to ensuring the implementation of projects from the “Storage” facility to the ecologically secure system and the reintegration of the affected territory as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. In preparation for our committee’s second reading, 36 amendments were made, 10 of which were taken into account and 26 were rejected. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use, and Disaster Management recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be governed by law. draft Law No. 4437 to be adopted in second reading and as a whole as a law. Let's move on to the amendments, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are not many amendments, but we must read them all. I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. So 1 a is Sold. Is it insisting? Oksana. Don't insist. 2nd is Timish, is he insisting? No, it's not. Four-a-Culinic. Don't insist. The 5th is Timish. Don't insist. 6th - Sold. Don't insist. 7th is Timish. Don't insist. 8th - Sold. Don't insist. 9th Lensky. Don't insist. Tenth is Timish. Don't insist. 11th Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on Lechchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u84	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. The point is that this bill could hypothetically create a real reserve in the Chernobyl area. This would have to be done because we now have a unique chance of creating a reserve there, because in fact nature has evolved without human intervention for many years. But the bill states that an appropriate reserve can be created in the territory of the alienation zone. Thus, the creation of a biosphere reserve may not take place because it is a right, not an obligation. Moreover, the biosphere reserve can only be created on a small part of the alienation zone, in the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction, and another part can be used for another purpose. So my amendment is to replace the word "may be created" with the "created" object of the natural reserve fund. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u85	Do you insist on voting? Yes. Who supports Amendment 11. You're in the mood to speak to the committee. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the point is that, in fact, according to the text adopted by law in the first reading, there were the words: "you can create territories and objects of the natural command fund." Why can we not say for sure what is being created throughout the entire area of the unconditional alienation zone? Because let's not forget that there is a station in this area itself, there are four energy clouds, there are plants for the disposal of liquid nuclear waste and solid fuel, and there are so-called two SOLAs — a nuclear fuel shelter. So I'm asking you to subtract the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u87	Thank you. Who supports the 11th People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[11:54:52]] For a-117. The decision is not made. The 12th, once again, of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Is it insisting? Please turn on Mr. Yuri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u88	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, in responding to the report, my revisions are prescribed in this way -- it's not a single correction in space -- they're prescribed in such a way that, of course, the reserve will be created throughout the territory, except for the corresponding objects that you've pointed out. Well, these are obvious things. It's just that down there in my amendments, it's all settled. The 12 amendments also apply to this issue. We consider it appropriate to create a natural-inventory facility throughout the territory of the alienation zone, obviously except for those objects mentioned by the reporter, the area of unconditional eviction. In doing so, it is wise to allow only those activities defined by law to exclude the possibility of using the alienation zone and appropriate commercial objects. The point is that you're so prescribing your bill, you're going to be able to build whatever you want, and you're going to use whatever you want. Not only does it apply to nuclear objects and nuclear safety objects, but it is also true that what is intended is completely against the logic of the reserve. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u89	Please finish 10 seconds. No, we can. Is there a need to comment from the committee? None. I'm voting on amendment 12 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:56:34]] For-100 The decision is not made. Let's move on. 13th, Rybak. Don't insist. 15th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please, Mr. Yuri, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u90	Thank you, I don't want to waste too much time, and I suggest we look at 15th and 16th right now, they're related to each other. And the project's proposals do not indicate what kind of construction can be done in the alienation zone. Moreover, the bill does not limit the number of objects except the general standard for objects that violate the security of the area that can be built. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has repeatedly claimed that it is possible to create ideal conditions in the Chernobyl area for the restoration of the animal and plant world under minimal human intervention and the creation of conditions for scientific research. Under these conditions, it is not appropriate to create any industrial object, including the creation of electrical objects and alternative sources. Since the Chernobyl radiation treatment zone can be a unique monument to nature to the possibility of self - purification unless human intervention is possible. In view of the above, I consider the entire territory of the alienation zone and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction to be a biosphere reserve and to prohibit any construction. Please add a few seconds, considering that two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u91	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u92	And forbid it. Highlight. and prohibit any construction, except for sites related to protection and security projects in the area, as well as objects related to scientific research, what the report said earlier. There must be a permit for construction that is exclusively related to nuclear safety, scientific research, and no commercial barrier. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u93	Thank you. I'll put the 15th first, then the 16th amendment separately. Who supports the 15th. Together. But you can't do that, I think. You can't do that, two bets. Can I put two to the vote? Okay. I'm putting to the vote the 15th, the 16th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, who they are. You can't. You can't. First 15th. Whoever supports the 15th, please vote. [[11:58:47]] For 104 The decision is not made. Who supports the 16th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[11:59:05]] For-81 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. All those who consider the bill important, let's go through the amendments quickly, because then it's just gonna be hard to get votes. Colleagues, there will be a vote on the bill in five minutes. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall. We're moving on. 17th, Kulinich. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 18th, Levenchenko. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u94	The project does not indicate exactly what construction can be done in the estrangement zone and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction. Moreover, the bill does not limit the number of objects except the general standard for objects that violate the security of the area that can be built. In view of what I repeat, now the alienation zone is the ideal space to create a reserve, a real reserve that is not in existence in Europe, where nature has evolved completely over the years without any interference from people and continues to do so, we have the opportunity to use it, not to destroy it. Therefore, I consider the entire territory of the alienation zone and the area of unconditional eviction to be a biosphere reserve. And to prohibit any construction, except for objects related to the protection and security project in the area, as well as objects related to scientific research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Anyone who supports the amendment of the 18th People's Deputies of Lehchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[12:00:51]] For-95 The decision is not made. Next. 23rd, Fishbuck. Do Not Urge 26th, Timish. Don't insist. 27th, Walking. Don't insist. 28th, Levenchenko. He insists. Can I have two at once-- 28th, 29th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u96	I was going to offer it myself. 28th and 29th are related amendments. I'm just asking you to add a little bit more time, given that we're together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u98	The proposal to change the status of the biosphere reserve from international to national importance is unearmarked Yes, the biosphere reserves are granted international status in relation to the position of the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural Heritage, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 14, 1988. In this regard, we believe that part of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Reserve Fund should be left in its original form. Moreover, a warning arises about what will happen to the scientific developments that will occur in this area, as the risk that the state may lose ownership of scientific development. So please support the 28th, 29th amendment, leave the international status of the biosphere reserve. And add the point that all scientific and scientific acquisitions made in biosphere reserves are property of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Now I'm going to put every correction separately. But these are actually the last amendments. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. So I'm putting to the vote first the amendment of the 28 People's Deputies of Lechchenka. Who supports the 28th amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[12:02:44]] For 109 The decision is not made. And I'm putting to the vote the 29th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[12:03:04]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. The next amendment is the 30th, Timish. Don't insist. 33rd, Oksana Sold. He insists. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u100	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to support the amendment to remove from this bill the norm that is in another project that does not apply at all to the subject of this bill is the exemption from damages in case of transfer, the removal of land from state-owned enterprises, other than defence companies, to reserves and to botanical gardens. First of all, it's a norm. We violate the Constitution, the equality of rights of different forms of property. Secondly, this is not the subject of this bill. Please support your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u101	Thank you, colleagues. Whoever supports amendment 33 of the People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:04:17]] For-161 Unfortunately, it didn't work out. 34th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. And 36th. Don't insist. These were the last amendments, colleagues. We completed the discussion of the bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I would like to stress that this is a bill that deals with specific issues of the legal regime of the territory that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. This question is needed to protect the environment in our country. This is obviously not part of the list of political debates. This is a question that needs to be brought together. And I very much ask all fellow MPs to vote responsibly. Please, head of the committee, one minute, come into the hall. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u102	The honourable colleagues, Bill 4437, had indeed united representatives of all political factions and groups in Parliament, and it was at the site of our Committee on Environmental Policy that it was thoroughly worked out. I want to thank the representatives of Self-Help, the Fatherland, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Will of the People, the Rebirth, the Opposition Block, all the non-fractionals who participated in the elaboration of this, well, in the additions to this bill. I think that, indeed, the day before the Donors' Conference, which will take place next week on the construction of a shelter facility in the Chernobyl area, this bill will show that our Ukrainian Parliament is capable of working for Ukraine. Thank you all for your support in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u103	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of specific issues in the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster (No.4437) in the second reading and in general. We support our colleagues, we support our ecologically polluted region. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:07:00]] For 234 234 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the minister's quality work. The bill has been passed. Colleagues, there's going to be a break now, but before the break, there are statements from two factions of the "Radical Party" and "Paternity." They're willing to replace their statement, and after that statement, I'm going to call it a break. The faction will be performed by Halasyuk, Victor Halasyuk. Please turn on the microphone. Three minutes, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are three industrial bills in place today. One of them stands for 60. Dear colleagues, this is bill 3872 on land tax freeze in Ukraine. To save the Ukrainian industry from being carved into scrap metal. This applies to all sectors of the Ukrainian economy without exception. If we do not accept this law with you today, it will mean that this year the land tax will increase by 43 percent for manufacturers and other businesses. Can we assume that? When the industry dropped 13 percent, we lost a third of our merchandise exports in Ukraine last year. It is a marvelous, antichrist law that we are obliged to adopt immediately. Dear colleagues, too, are at the very end of the day, whether the time is at hand or not. Bill 4809 on the development of domestic aircraft in order to allow international cooperation, so that Ukrainian Antonov planes around the world are manufactured and sold and flown. It's not like there's no real production today. These are bills 2554a and 2555a-d on industrial parks. It's a real mechanism for investing in the country, it's a real mechanism for creating jobs, regional development and filling budgets. Dear colleagues, I understand that renaming the population is very important. But industrial development is no less important. And that's priority number one today, and it has to be no less than defense for the country. Because if we lose the Ukrainian industry with you, we lose the Ukrainian economy, we lose the sovereignty of Ukraine. We can't assume that, and that's why I'm calling for these industrial bills to be transposed and put them right after the break. Let's do industry, economics and job creation, budget filling, and let's solve the problems that are most acute for citizens. What concerns citizens today? First, today is tariffs, tariffs should be listed on a reasonable basis. Second, there's gotta be work. Because if you don't have a job, where you're going to pay taxes and where you're going to pay tariffs. And to have a job, it takes an industrial investment policy to make the wages normal. Not like today: average income after taxes in the country is 2,600 dollars. What is it?Oh, my God! Today, we are an orphan colony, and our role is to correct it with you. So industrial laws have to be the first, this is the principle of the radical party faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u105	Thank you. I'll just make a note. If there are two factions left behind, you can give me a statement, but I don't have it right now, and there's no discussion, there was a statement by two factions. I want to say that today all the airline laws are in order of the day. By my previous calculation, and so far we're going completely on schedule, we're going to go out at 16:15, at 16.20. But it takes work, Mr. Victor. With all due respect, we have to work. All the airline laws are in the pass, we just have to sit in jobs, we have to work, and we're going to adopt all the necessary laws for our industry today. As you have rightly pointed out, it takes very easy work. Dear colleagues, I now announce a half-hour break under the Rules, and at 12:40, I very much ask everyone to return to the Hall, we will have one of the most important laws of 2966-d, this is a draft of the National Commission Act, which implements state regulations in the fields of energy and utilities. I'm asking everyone to come in with discipline, and at 12:40, we'll continue our work. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, 12.40, time for recess is over. And we're going to one of the most important bills today -- this is a draft of the National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities (2966-d). A lot of changes. I ask all the amendment authors to prepare for productive and productive work. Olga Valentine's Day, ready to report? I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bilkov Olga Valentinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For your consideration, the Committee's second reading proposed an extremely important and long-awaited draft of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities, registration number 2966d, adopted by the Supreme Council on the first reading of April 12, 2016. During this time, proposals and amendments to the bill have been carefully worked out in the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, which came from legislators. In total, 232 suggestions and corrections were made, including 104 complete, part 11, and an editorial 18 rights. 99 rights rejected. In general, the bill defines the legal status of an independent regulator in the field of energy and utilities, its tasks, functions and the order in which they are carried out. The adoption of the bill is in line with Ukraine’s obligations as a member of the Energy Community to implement the third energy package in Ukraine’s legislation. In addition, the bill was widely supported by the public, many nongovernmental organizations. During the preparation of the second reading, the bill was extensively worked out by the joint efforts of national MPs, representatives of various MPs and groups. In particular, improved procedures for the formation of a competitive commission resulting from the need to balance the participation of different branches of authority; reduced terms of rotation of regulators from 30 to 18 months; detailed procedures for the payment of the work of the members of the commission; orderly arrangements for the payment of employees of the apparatus and the territorial authorities of the regulator; clarified positions that ensure transparency and transparency in the performance of the regulator; detailed position on the personal responsibility of the regulator's officials; and based on consultations with the Energy Community established guidelines for monitoring energy and utility markets through analysis and evaluation of key indicators, etc. In fact, we are very grateful to the committee for all the amendments made by all the deputies. I take this opportunity to express my gratitude on behalf of and on behalf of the committee to all those who have joined in the drafting and discussion of the bill. I also point out that, in addition to the initiative of individual national deputies, an additional committee was held on June 1, 2016, at which the National Deputies Alexia Rybczyn and Victoria Vojcitsky proposed a new edition of article 8 of the bill on the specificities of appointment of members of the regulator. Because these changes are made after the fixed period and after the roes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u108	How much? One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u109	Since these amendments have been made beyond the time limit, they are given in a separate additional table. I also point out that they were not supported by the committee. The additional table also contains an application under my authority, but it is given in fact after consultation with the legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In it we try to arrange for the application of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, by extending the law to members of regulators who are not actually civil servants. Therefore, when considering article 8 and the final provisions of the bill, I also ask the authors to give the floor at the same time for additional amendments. Thank you very much. Please proceed to the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. And we're going to look at the licenses. 1-a, Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 2nd, Babak. Don't insist. 9th, Babak. Don't insist. 10th, Babak. What's that? Mrs. Olena, I just spoke to my colleague Rybkin. Let's put it in the end so that there's an objective picture in the hall. I'm just asking. There'll be a vote, just when there's people in the room. Jurko! [[B in m in s a l in]] Needs a 7 correction for confirmation. Please comment. Mrs. Ola, 7th Amendment for Confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, in the right hand of number seven, colleague Pinzenik, Paul Pinzenik of the People's Front, draws our attention to some of the gaps in legislation. Today, the issue of licensing economic activity in waste disposal and processing is not effectively regulated. The committee actually split up in this part, with a small advantage we supported Mr. Pinzenic. Please identify yourself with this amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u112	Mrs. Ola, do you mind if we ask for confirmation now? Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 7th amendment. Please prepare for the vote. The committee calls for confirmation of the 7th amendment. Therefore, who supports the position to support the 7th amendment of the authorship of Paul Pinzenik, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. To confirm the 7th amendment, we vote. [[12:48:30.]] For 115 No 7 revisions are supported. 9th, 10th, Babak. Is it insisting or not? Don't insist. 13th, Melniczuk. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 16th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 17th. The 17th is required for confirmation. 17th, please comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u113	Actually, first let's figure out the status of the amendment, this is my revision, it's only partially counted, 17th, yes. So I'd like to pay attention to the respectable society today. Unfortunately, my colleagues did not support me in the part that I was trying to change, simplifying the demands on the experience of the work of potential members of the commission. I'll explain my position. If you see, today even the Minister of Energy has no substitutes, and one reason is that legislation today defines very clear standards, on the one hand, about experience, and on the other hand, there is no conflict of interest. In this law we set very strict requirements for conflict of interest. In fact, the people who will work in this body, on the one hand, we ask that they have 5 years of experience, and on the other hand they should not work anywhere. So I'm asking you a lot of questions, and we're not going to find any worthy, well, young specialists who wouldn't work in a monopoly anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u114	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, I'll bet. Well, you asked a question, you answered, there's no more procedure, I'm putting it to a vote. So I'm voting for Rybkin's proposal to confirm 17 amendments. Did I spell it right? Well, colleagues. Please, Dombrowski, one minute. Please, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u115	Andry Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you because a critical bill for Ukraine is now under discussion. And when we put on confirmation in a hall where there aren't enough national MPs, well, I think it's either a farce, or if we're not doing the right thing. So I'm addressing you, let's get the national MPs back to the hall so that we can have a normal, professional and deep discussion of the problems, and then put them on confirmation or non-assurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u116	Thank you very much. I applied to Rybcin, offering. It's true, colleagues, you know. And the truth is that when we considered the bill, especially the military, we brought people into the hall. There is great truth in that too. So I'm really just asking you to let me confirm your two amendments, if that's all. 17th, 28th, put to the vote. This is my request to you. Please, one minute, Mr. Rybchin. Turn on the microphone, Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u117	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to you, you've already allowed me to make the 7th amendment, so I'm asking you to. I insist that the procedure be carried out. Similarly, we agreed that we might make such concessions, but the procedure had already begun, and some amendments could not be made, and others could not. Why am I putting this amendment on the stand? Yes, we do have a certain, certain problem, yes, with experienced people, but we have a problem with inexperienced people working on this committee. So 2 years in energy for top management is just not enough. Five years in energy to make government decisions. Because we see how inexperienced they are now, how they raise tariffs unreasonably, how they don't deliver these things. And all Ukraine sees what ignorance leads to. So five years of energy training is a must have to be a member of the NCREKP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give Mrs. Ollie Belkov again, 30 seconds. And then we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Olga Valentinovna Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ryabchin, I'm pointing out that my application is only included in one part for today. It's taken into account that these are supposed to be Ukrainian citizens. Do you deny this part? Read carefully. These are the adjustments that are taken into account. As the author, I've just reported that I'm asking you to consider more. So I'm very much asking you not to start this process right now. Really. My check is off, Sergei, my check is off. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 17 of National MP Belkovy. Anyone who supports this position, support the 17th edition of Belkova, please vote, colleagues, please vote. [[12:53:47]] For-149 The decision is not made. And, dear colleagues, I am addressing the heads of factions, inviting MPs into the hall where we are considering an important bill. I don't have the authority to stop or carry it, I can only put an amendment to the vote. And so I very much ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall so that we can vote fully on each side. So let's move on. 19th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 22nd, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 23rd, Belkova. Don't insist. 26th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. He insists. Please. Twenty-six. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u121	The 26th amendment refers to the nomination committee, the appointment of members of the nomination commission. In fact, in the alternative I have proposed, I propose that the nomination committee, which will elect the members of the regulator, be appointed by one representative from the President of Ukraine, three representatives from the Supreme Council and one representative from the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, this configuration, in my opinion, can have a level playing field and an equal impact on the acceptance of members, and the commission will be formed from professional and independent members. So please, I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, there are three amendments that are, well, actually combined and offer us different solutions to this question: 26th, 27th and 28th. The committee at its meeting carefully considered all the proposed, well, initiatives and elected number 28 of Dombrovski’s colleagues. Please make your decision by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Teenagers insist on voting. Yeah? I'm putting to the vote 26 people's deputies of Podlisecki. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:56:11]] For-138 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please let the deputies know that they're coming into the hall and working. That was 26th. Then we have the 27th Amendment, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. 29th, Podlisecki. 28th for confirmation, right? Please, Mrs. Ola, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this issue of 28 of Dombrowski's colleague is in unison with the previous issue that we discussed. And the difference is that from the President -- two people -- from the Supreme Council -- two people, and from the Cabinet of Ministers -- one person. Please confirm the selection of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u126	Thank you. With your permission, I'll give the author an amendment to Dombrowski's 1 minute as the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask for support and support for my amendment, because I am proceeding from the rules of the Constitution, where we need, in a very important law, to create a system of restraints and contradictions in order for an independent regulator to be professional, impartial and independent. That's why we have the opportunity, the President has two representatives on the nomination board, the Supreme Council -- two representatives on the nomination committee, and the government has one representative. We think that this is a very balanced and honest and transparent formula that corresponds to the Constitution of the State. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we will now proceed to the vote. That was the only question that was the biggest issue in the room. I think the formula is suggested when two -- from the Supreme Council, two from the President and one from the government -- is a form of compromise for everyone, a colleague. By the way, as far as I know, there was a position on two from the Supreme Council. And I'm going to make this proposal after we've finished our consideration so that we can find a compromise procedure. Because it is, in fact, a key issue in the discussion between our factions. I'm going to put it to a vote right now, I'm just going to explain how important this rule is. Because if we find a compromise in it, we either get a positive vote or we don't get out. If we just reject it at the end of the day, it won't allow us to adopt the law. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put it on record, but I think we're going to have a separate discussion on this. We'll figure out a formula that will unite the entire room, and then we'll vote. Is that how colleagues are accepted? And now, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking you to confirm the 28th amendment, and I'm reminding you that the committee is supporting it and asking everyone in the room to support it. Dear colleagues, the 28th Amendment of Dombrowski. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:59:40]] For 165 165 for. The decision is not made. We're going to look for a compromise formulation. Next 29th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 31st Podlisecki. Don't insist. 33rd Cusell. Don't insist. 34th Podlisecki. Don't insist. 35th Ephimov. Don't insist. 36th Rybchin. He insists. Please, Rybchin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u129	Alexy Rybczyn "Fatherland" Donetskin. This amendment also seeks to balance the representation of various branches of government, which unfortunately was not balanced, with past remedies unfortunately, the committee has not voted. And it says that the term of office of the members of the competition commission is three years and may be reduced in a timely manner by the initiating body or by the person who appointed such members of the commission. I ask you to add from the initiative of the Supreme Council so that the Supreme Council may have such a right. If these members of the commission who are not subject to this law at all. If they abuse their responsibilities, for example, it is today. In order for the Supreme Council to ask questions about the initiation of a difference in the response of such members of the commission. In addition, this amendment, it touches on what is now being adopted, because the 28 revision, it's rejected, and we're back to the first reading, when the nomination committee is defined as two, from the JRC Committee and three, from the Energy Committee. I mean, we have to give the Supreme Council the initiative to call it off, because we're going to assign them. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u130	Please comment, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, this amendment violates the principle of full independence of the regulator, especially given that the previous amendment was not accepted. If the Supreme Council is to appoint and release itself, it is the complete dependence of an independent regulator on the Supreme Council. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u132	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 36 people's deputies Rybchin. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:01:55]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next up is 40th, Lechchenka. Is it insisting? He insists, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u133	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Regrettably, this bill does not exclude the influence of the President of Ukraine on the formation of the NCRECR. In fact, when we heard some of the amendments to the composition of the competition commission here, you know, we have a parliamentary-presidential republic at the moment, and in general, the de-jury of the President to the executive branch has little or no relation, and in particular should not have a reference to any such regulatory mechanisms. So someone there is proposing to put two people from the President on a competitive committee, and it's completely unclear that the President should have two people on a competitive committee such as the NCRECR, within the framework of today's Constitution in Ukraine. Yeah? And the bill also proposes to empower the President of Ukraine to establish a rotation order for the members of the commission who have already been elected. I believe that such powers should be delegated to a competitive commission because, according to the bill, the President of Ukraine has a significant impact on the work of the commission through the approval and release of its members, the organization of the work of the competitive commission and the potential influence of members of the faction and any President of Ukraine in Parliament. So please clean up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u134	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u135	Please remove the influence of the President of Ukraine on the establishment of the rotational order of the members of the commission. If we really want an independent NCRECR, there will be no President's influence on the NCRECR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Will you comment, Olga Valentina? No, it's not. I'm voting on Amendment 40 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:03:50]] For 104 The decision is not made. 43rd, Levenchenko. Is it insisting? He insists, doesn't he? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u137	Thank you. Yes, I insist. 43 the amendment has a similar point: it is also aimed at minimizing the influence of the Institute of President of Ukraine, which does not really have an impact on such things as the independent regulator of tariffs on municipal services, on the NCREKP. Thus, with the aim of reducing the influence of the President of Ukraine on the work of the commission, I consider it necessary to limit his choice to the approval of the composition of the commission. In this way, the President of Ukraine, upon approval of the composition of the members of the commission, will be able to refuse such approval only on the basis of the grounds provided for in the bill. The point is, in the first option, you give very discretionary powers to the President, he can refuse to make any sense of the reasons for the election of the appropriate members of the commission. I propose that this be specifically stipulated, not for the President's consideration, but for the approval of the President. And that the total count of one person per board member instead of being given a choice, two persons per board member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of 43 People’s Deputies, Levchenko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:05:20]] For-99 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I have a feeling we should go more dynamic. So I'm asking you a lot, just where there are really principled things, there's a word to take if that's possible. Turn off Lechchenkov, please. Colleagues, please move on to more dynamic work. 50th, Kugel. Don't insist. 52nd, Levechenko. He insists, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u139	The bill provides for the rotation of members of the commission who exercised their powers at the time the bill takes effect. In the course of the rotation of the members of the commission, they are released, which is, in fact, a time-consuming cessation of their powers. With a view to avoiding the accusations of rotational decisions by members of the commission, it is appropriate to provide for rotation as one of the types of early termination of the commission’s terms of reference. It's very important to write this down, because if you don't write it down, in fact, there's an absolute legal possibility in our most humane courts in the world, which are very fond of returning to the positions of all corruption officials after they're released. There's a possibility of de jure because of that kind of bad. Legal in law to sue for court rotation, because in fact it's a liberation. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u140	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Lewchenko, we have very much respect for you and with respect for this particular right consulted separately at the General Expert Office, to which we have received an answer that rotation is not a permanent termination of authority. And according to the rules of this law, it will be done in rotation rather than time-consuming termination. Thank you very much. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u142	Thank you, dear fellows. I bet on the vote that supports amendment 52 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[13:07:24]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Once again, I refer to the authors of the amendments: if this is really a principle, we put it to the vote. I feel that everyone in the room understands the importance of adopting this law. But if we go into a two-hour discussion, we just won't accept it. We'll talk about the procedure with the right words. I have a more responsible request. So 54th, Vojcitsky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 56th, Lensky. Don't insist. 62nd Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 63rd Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 67th, Babak. Don't insist. 70th, Rybchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u143	I'm asking, 70th, 73rd, 74th, to report together. I've got two minutes, yes, three corrections. Thank you. Yes, yes, thank you for voting later. It's very important. These are very important corrections because they will help make the national regulator financially independent. Because we're going to set a wage for all people, these commissioners, and it's going to be set up, and the commission's funding is going to be made on the basis of receipts to the government's special budget for regulatory fees from licensees themselves. licenses. The commission itself determines the amount of the premium, and it should not be more than 0.1 percent of its own income. So we can create, really, an independent financial institution, but if we make this institution politically dependent, these people are going to get the upper hand. Very high wages. They will be subordinated, and there is such a possibility that they will be subordinated to one organ, namely the President's Administration, and this will provoke resentment against people. Because people will be financially independent and make decisions that contradict any logic. So I'd like you to support these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Olga, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the number 70 issue has not been taken into account in connection with the fact that we have taken into account more of the number 68 of Ms. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky's schedule. There's also the part about the payments. But if the author insists, well, we can support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u146	Colleagues, let's not discuss this now, let's put 3 on confirmation, not confirmation, but revisions. 70th National MP Rybchin. Those who support the 70 amendments, please vote. Please vote. [[13:09:53]] For-94 Thank you. 71 to confirm. So 71st. Mrs. Ola, are we supporting her?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u147	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u148	No, it's not. So 71st is for confirmation. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote. Please. [[13:10:21]] Z-87 73 The amendment, which supports 73 of the Rybkin amendment, please vote. In the previous decision, 87 were not taken. 73, who supports, please vote. [[13:10:43]] For-83 The decision is not made. And 74th, Fish. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:11:02]] For-84 The decision is not made. Let's move on, fellows. 81st, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 83rd, Babak. Don't insist. 84th, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 85th, Rybchin. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u149	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. This is also a very important amendment because it balances institutional ownership of the regulator. Therefore, the methodology, the procedure for determining the rate of adjustment, is developed by the Commission and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we have to give the Supreme Council an opportunity to just approve. That's what the commission will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues who support Amendment 85, National Deputy Rybchin, please vote. Please. [[13:12:05]] For-74. The decision is not made. Next. 86th, Babak. Don't insist. 88th, Babak. Don't insist. 92nd, Babak. Don't insist. 94th. Don't insist. 97th, Babak. Don't insist. 98th, Lensky. Don't insist. 99th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u151	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to comment on the reaction to my previous amendment to what GNEU said rotation is not liberation. Well, I'm glad the GNEU told you. Only the Ukrainian courts will say otherwise when they are given $100,000 in a suitcase to return an NCREKP official to their seat. Because, apart from the words of the GNEU, no law prescribes it, this is the norm. So you can say anything, and there's no law, there's no definition of what it is. The rotation. I was just suggesting that I write that rotation is not. I'm sorry I got fired. It's not a release. The rotation and the liberation are two different things. And you don't write it. Therefore, it is a pity that GNEU advises you to do so. As far as 99 is concerned. According to the general rule, legal and regulatory acts, according to the general rule, are subject to State registration, which is one of the attributes of their legality and ensures their uniform application. I believe that the decisions of the commission, which will be of a normative nature, should be subject to state registration. Because you're completely shutting down the commission. If this is an act of a non-legislative nature, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u152	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u153	If the act is of a normative nature, it must be registered in Minsk as well as any act of a normative nature, regardless of whether it is the NCRECR or something else. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Anyone who supports the amendment of the 99th People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[13:14:08]] For-68 The decision is not made. 101st, Babak. Don't insist. 106th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 107th, Babak. Don't insist. 108th, Ephimov. 105th, Rybchin. By the way, we missed another 25 for confirmation, so I'm going to put the 25th now. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u155	This is a very principled amendment that applies to an energy ombudsman. The European Union Directive provides that Member States should guarantee the existence of an independent mechanism that cares about consumer rights. and I would like to remind you that this is our obligation to implement this directive in the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. So the rule on the rights institution and the same ombudsman should be implemented in Ukraine. We should give the energy ombudsman the right to review acts of a commission that have signs of a regulatory act. And I can say that in Britain, for example, an energy ombudsman is independent and free to consumers of an organization that has the right to decide what actions should be taken and what to force an energy supplier to view. In a situation where we now have tariffs, an energy ombudsman is an institution that will protect the very rights of small and medium-sized consumers, and that is what we should do, and that is in the law itself, to give the Ombudsman the right to review these acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u156	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues supporting 105 amendments to the People's Deputy Rybchin, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:15:53]] For-94 The decision is not made. 106th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 107th, Babak. Don't insist. 108th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 110th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 123rd, Kugel. Don't insist. 125th, Kugel. Don't insist. Yes, please, Rybchin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u157	Yeah, about licensing, it's also a superpractice, superpractice thing. What's going on now? We have the authority to develop, approve and issue licensing terms. We have a separate licensing bill, and this is Mrs. Kugel's bill, which sets one condition for everyone. So what we want to do is we want the NCRECR to have the right to develop these licensing conditions, but the Kabmin has to approve them so that we don't have corruption, so that we have this institutional. Authorization, they're distributed to all organs, and they're going to be released, and they're going to be issued by the NCRECR. That is, we must grant the right of an intermediate organization, like Kabmin, to verify what the NCRECR will assert. And they have no right to change, they have the right to reject and send it to the NCRECR to review. So it's not interference, it's not institutional independence. And the Energy Society has confirmed that this is a political decision that the Supreme Council should make. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u158	Thank you. Please place this amendment on the vote. Please. Please make up your mind. [[13:17:42]] For-100 It's not supported by the hall. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Martovicki, this is 113 amendments, insisting that he requires it to be confirmed. And please turn on the microphone. We go back to her because we didn't notice his insistence earlier. 113th, Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u159	Thank you. On the basis of the bill, the commission does not agree with or justify its decision in Minsk. Therefore, it is wrong to give the commission a one - person solution and approval of such an important document as licensing conditions, which is the key document for operators operating in the relevant areas. I believe that the National Commission should be a licensing authority, develop licensing conditions and monitor their execution by the operators. But such licensing conditions should only be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as provided for by a valid version of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of activities of the economy. Therefore, I insist on the deletion of the second paragraph of section 3 of article 17 of the bill. Dear colleagues, please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u160	Thank you. Please take the 113th amendment of the people's MP Martovitchki to the vote. [[13:19:19:19]] For-86 Not supported. The Self-Help faction claims that they also did not notice their hands by insistence, with the support of 107 amendments. This was the amendment that was made by the national deputy, Elena Babak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as you heard from the various factions that we have a general law on licensing certain activities, yes. Plus, we're now giving the national regulator one-on-one to adopt and develop and approve licensing conditions for energy and utilities. My amendment to 107, it was so compromising. It suggests that when we grant the regulator the right to develop and approve licenses, we write down the following, based on the general rules of the Ukrainian Law on License, taking into account the specifics defined in the sectoral laws, to develop and approve licenses. That is, that the general requirements listed in the Law on the licensing of business activities should be taken into account by the regulator. I'm asking you very much to support this, then it's going to be at least some general framework to license requirements. I'm asking you very much to support this 107, it's going to be that full balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u162	Thank you. The committee insists on commenting. Please, Mrs. Belkovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is indeed a compromise right that at least partially compromises a situation that was debated about who should actually approve licensing conditions. I very much ask everyone, despite the partying, on the faction, to support Mrs. Alona, who has made an effort to find compromise. Unfortunately, on the committee, those who insisted on another option did not support it, the amendment. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize now and support Mrs. Babak's 107th amendment, who is the expert on this subject that we are discussing. Please put to the vote and ask all factions to support this amendment. [[13:21:52]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, 159 votes. Dear colleagues. Please. Dear colleagues, I very much ask everyone to go back to the session room and remind their colleagues that the MP's job is not just to write a bill and readjust. And basically, now that we're not in the room, we're stopping the work and crossing out dozens of our colleagues, dozens of our colleagues, we're stopping the work. It's disrespectful to each other, well, and unconstructive. I ask you to return to the hall and return to the 107th revision. Dear colleagues, let's go back to Amendment 107, Mrs. Babak, put to the vote and then move on. May I have Mrs. Babak's 107th amendment back to her? Vote. [[13:22:57]] For 155 Unfortunately, it's not supported. But maybe we'll come back a little bit later. The 125th Amendment, National Deputys Kugel and Rybchin, don't they insist? Don't insist, okay. 127th Amendment, National Deputy Bilkova, accounted for. 129th Amendment, National Deputy Bilkova, do you insist? Don't insist. 130th Amendment of the National MP, Mrs. Babak, do you insist? Don't insist. 134th Amendment of the Lensky People's Deputy, do you insist? Don't insist. 138th. National deputy Lensky, insist? We can't see. 139th. The Dove People's Deputies, do you insist? We can't see. 145th People's Deputy Lensky, do we insist? Okay. 145th Lensky, don't you think? Don't insist, thank you. 144th. "Conducted" is written, but Lewchenko insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u165	Levchenko "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. Well, it's not really counted in any way, even though it's edited, it's not counted. The point is that it is worth setting up a clear mechanism of publication, order, methodology, calculations approved by the commission, since such decisions relate to such socially important areas as energy and utilities. The availability of information on the decision of the commission in the necessary language is qualitative in the provision of utilities and in the enforcement of legislation in the field of energy. In addition, such decisions by the commission will be of a normative nature. Therefore, they should be published in a manner that is valid in law. The point is that in that version of what you've just accepted, the committee has adopted a bill, everything you're writing, you're writing that there should be an official publication. This is an official publication of the relevant acts of the NCRECR. As to what the official publication is, we are already faced with the work of other executive authorities, where official publication is very often on a booklet somewhere, sorry, with the circulation of 100 pieces that no one in life has ever seen, but they are thought to have been officially published. So please give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u166	We just want to catch up on this bill. I'm voting on Mr. Levchenk's amendment, this is Amendment 144. Please be supportive. [[13:25:44]] For-90 I take into account your observation, Your Honorable People's Deputy. Amendment No. 149 of the People’s Deputies of Ephraim. Is he insisting? We can't see. Amendment No. 150 of the People’s Deputies of Jephimoff. Is he insisting? Is he insisting? We can't see. Next, dear fellows, let's move on. Amendment No. 156 of the Martovick People's Deputy. National MP Martovicki does not insist that you not be told that you were not given a word. 159 revisions. Ribchin. He insists. Please, People's Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u167	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. This is a very important amendment that was developed along with the Reanimation Package. The previous regulations on opening up the regulator's work, they were taken into account, and there are revolutionary things, because reporting information in the format of "open date," so you can take this data from the NCREKP website and do both statistics and control what's going on. But the words "on demand" have to be changed and deleted in order to ensure access to information and to provide information is in accordance with the Ukrainian Public Information Access Act. Because it's "on demand," it can be distorted, and the commission can be, in some way, not asking public organizations to experts, to anti-corruption bodies that have to control this body. For example, the head of the NCRECR promised us a few months ago to make calculations on the coal price formula for Rotterdam Plus. Sadly, this has not been done, and some questions have been asked. So this is a very important requirement for the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u168	Thank you. Is there a need to comment, Mrs. Olu? Whoever supports the amendment of 159 people's deputies Rybchin, please vote, please. [[13:28:02]] For 105 The decision is not made. The next 164, 165. Could you, Mr. Yuri, report on both? Please turn on Mr. Yuri's microphone, Levchenko, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u169	Thank you. And what's more, I'm now, I've been called here to work faster, and I'm proposing four amendments right now, 164, 165, 167, 169. Just please give the chairman two minutes. And in this context, you know, right now I'm talking about my previous amendment to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. Mrs. Irina, you know, it's not nice when you've been asking people's deputies for five minutes to work and look at the amendments that worked well, and then you let me finish for 10 seconds. The point of my amendment, which was past, was that all decisions of the NCCR should be published on their official website, the correct amendment, in fact, but somehow they were cut off. So how can we look at the bill in detail if they're cutting off, in fact, the consideration. With these amendments, four of my amendments, it's actually about one question, it's just been broken for some reason. It is proposed to resolve the problem that this bill seeks to empower the President of Ukraine to establish a rotational order for members of the Commission. I believe that such powers should be given to the competition commission, because, according to the bill, the President of Ukraine does.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u170	Please turn on another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u171	The President of Ukraine has a significant impact on the commission’s activities. Through the approval and release of members and the organization of the work of the competitive commission and the potential influence of members of the faction of any President of Ukraine in Parliament. Thus, it is suggested, in fact, that the impact on all procedures relating to the rotation of the members of the commission should move on to a competitive commission, which should be at least relatively independent. In addition, I would like to point out that it is not appropriate to stretch out during the procedure for the release of valid members of the commission, which is very long here in your version of the bill, I propose that you essentially cut it down twice. For example, instead of taking 18 months to 9 months. So I'm asking these four amendments, they apply to one question, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u172	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 164 national MP Levchenk. Anyone who supports me, I ask you to vote, please. [[13:30:27]] For-99 The decision is not taken. 165th Lechchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:30:46.]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 167th, Levchenko, who supports, please vote. [[13:31:03]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 169th Lechchenka, who supports, please vote. [[13:31:21]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, please take an example and help make the work more intensive. There's only 50 amendments left. 170th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 171th, Podlisecki, insists. 171st, Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u173	The adoption of this amendment is expected, without exaggeration, by the entire Ukrainian people. That's why I'm addressing all the factions that block the rostrum that don't vote that require a tariff review. Let me remind you that the tariffs are approved by the National Commission for the Electricity Market. In fact, the amendment provides for the release of all the members of the commission who made these infamous decisions regarding the adoption of tariffs in an entirely unreasonable manner. So by adopting this amendment, we can ensure the full rotation of the members of the commission and adopt a new law and immediately thereafter form a new professional composition of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Electricity Market, which will work for the benefit of citizens and the entire Ukrainian people, That is why I demand and appeal to everyone to accept this amendment and to ensure the rotation of the members of the NCRECR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u174	Will you comment or vote? I'll bet you a vote. Colleagues supporting amendment 171 of the People’s Deputy of Podlisecki, please vote. Please vote. [[13:33:05]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 172th, Rybchin. She insists. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u175	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. This amendment, just like a colleague's past self-help law, regulates the situation that immediately after the adoption of this law, we rotate in three months, we accept new members to work. Because these members of the NCRECR, unfortunately, make illogical decisions that increase tariffs with unclear calculations. By the way, we don't see any representatives of the NCREKP in the room, so they show their respect for parliamentarians. And I'm asking you to support this proposal so that we can rotate as soon as possible after the adoption of this bill, we've hired new people to work, who will receive a normal salary, who will be independent, who will act in the interests of both the users of services and the suppliers and who will do so without political pressure. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u176	Thank you. Whoever supports Amendment 172 Rybkin, please vote. Please vote. [[13:34:25]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next. 173rd, Sold. Don't insist. 174th, Sold. Don't insist. 177th, Sold. Don't insist. 178th. Don't insist. 180th, Sold. Don't insist. 185th. Don't insist. 186. Don't insist. 191st. Don't insist. 193. Don't insist. 194th. Don't insist. 198. Don't insist. 199th. Don't insist. 201th. Don't insist. 203. Don't insist. 204th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're getting close to completion. 217th. Don't insist. 222th. 217th. Please, who will I give my word to? Tell me who you want to give your word to. 207th, right? 207 revisions, I'll be back. Babak or Podlisecki? To whom do we give the word? Babak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the 207, 208, 209, 210, 211, 213 and 214 are rights that are in fact consistent with the law contained in number 7. Since we didn't support it, 7th, we have to properly reject all of these changes that I've listed. Because they simply harmonize other laws with the 7th - right amendment. So please put them on confirmation: 7-y, 8-y, 9-y, 10-y, 11-y, 13-y, 14-y. They're technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u178	Are you commenting or not from the committee? Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u179	Well, actually, given that the 7 was rejected, as part of the technical legal process, these changes will fall apart. But the protocol must state that they are already unsupported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u180	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 207 rights, People's Chamber of Commerce. Is that for confirmation or for rejection? It's a deflection. For confirmation, right? For confirmation, 207 for confirmation. Whoever supports this position, please vote. Please. [[13:37:03]] For-73 Thank you. 108th. Yeah? 108th for confirmation. 208th. Whoever supports the 208th vote, please. [[13:37:26]] Z-62 62. The decision is not made. 209th. For confirmation. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 209, please. [[13:37:49]] For-69 The decision is not made. Everything? 210 for confirmation. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:38:14]] For-64 The decision is not made. 211, please. Who supports confirmation of 211th, please vote. Please. [[13:38:35]] Z-62 The decision is not made. 213 who supports the confirmation, please vote. 213. Please. [[13:38:55]] For-65 The decision is not made. And 214 y is for. To confirm who supports this, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:39:15]] For-58 The decision is not made. Did you finish your block? Honestly and conscientiously? Let's move on. I stopped, if I'm not mistaken, on the 223rd before that. 223rd. Don't insist. 224th. Don't insist. 226th. Don't insist. 227th. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've passed the master table. We have another table, just 15 amendments. We're in five minutes. 25 more to confirm, right? 25 for confirmation? So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirming the 25th amendment. Anyone who supports the proposal for confirmation, please vote. Please vote. [[13:40:10]] For-53 The decision is not made. Thank you for reminding me. The Society will be voting on one of the most important bills today in five minutes. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. I very much ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform us that in five minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. According to the supplementary table presented by the committee, the national MP Rybchin asks immediately after all the amendments of three minutes. Three minutes, we agreed. I'll give you three minutes after all the amendments, and you'll tell me what it takes to vote. Please, 3 minutes, Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u181	Thank you. Alexei Rybchin, Daughter, Fatherland. Why did this amendment come about? From lack of trust both in politicians and in the authorities. The appointment of the commissioners, who are about to take place at the Presidential Administration, who are now in charge of all tariffs. And what we have is the opaque tariffs, the very counterversive price of Rotterdam Plus on these, on our electricity, trying to set cloudy tariffs on Grigorisin's transformers. And even a student of political science and the course understands that this amendment, which has now been rejected, is the 28th that sets out: two from the President, two from the Supreme Council, one from the Ministry of Energy, it makes this regulator politically dependent. What do we suggest with my colleague Vojtsiecki with Self-Help? And this amendment was developed by Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, and it's not a tribute to the leader, it's really her idea that we put together with the Self-Help faction. Another philosophy of commissioning. Let's create a sampling commission, let's do the 2-2-1 scheme that's being proposed, but this commission won't select commissioners, and it'll test candidates for the criteria: education, professional qualities, experience in energy for five years, including management positions, etc. After non-electronic drawing, by accident, candidates are chosen to go through a special examination and to be interviewed before a joint meeting of two committees: HKG and energy. In video and audio broadcast mode on the Council channel and on the outside, MPs are interviewing all candidates. So we have to take out completely the people that we got in summary from this commission. Under the support of no less than one sixth of the approved composition of each committee, that is, the minimum price we enter for candidates to pass. And there will be a political element and a responsibility. As a committee, we'll work everyone out, everyone will see who voted for whom. And then the last step is to select 7 commissioners by getting candidates who have been interviewed, empty cards, or cards with deadlines. This will allow you to do four levels of filtration:. Screening, public interviews by members of the committee, and depoliticized non - electronic drawing. And by the way, this is a revision supported by the RPR. This right to communicate with representatives of the Energy Community, the EU representation, embassies, donors, EBRD, the World Bank is supported. Unfortunately, they cannot provide formal support because it is a political issue. So I'm asking you to support our approach. And I'm talking to my coalition colleagues and the leadership of the Supreme Council. Today, there was a record of the buttonage, and this buttonage has been openly obtained by the "Fatherland" faction. Last week we saw 227 people, three of whom were simply not in the hall, being buttoned up for the State Service Act. So we ask Mr. Speaker to control the buttonage. And I'm sorry that there are military uniforms here, and their cards are, unfortunately, partly voting, and I've fixed it up, and we've been talking about it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. That's why the Fatherland faction. And the Fatherland faction leaves behind radical means to control these buttons. And I demand that this bill be voted on only personally. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we all going in the right direction? Colleagues, are we going in all directions or not? Yeah? Let's go. 1st, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? Two o'clock, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 3rd, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. Are they all filming? We can't vote right now, buddy. We can't all vote now. 9th, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 10th, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 11th, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 12th, Wojcietsky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Don't insist. Please, Mrs. Ola, comment on how we should act. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u183	Well, given the situation in the hall, I'm talking to the author of these rights, which we've considered very carefully. Mr. Alexei, I propose to vote for one, and you will not insist on the rest. And if it's supported, we'll be sure to do the rest. Okay? With respect to Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u184	The position of the committee shall be taken and shall be subject to the vote of the 1st People's Deputy Vojcicka. Vojcitsky. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. From the extra table. From the extra table. Please vote. [[13:45:35]] For-93 The decision is not made. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Dear colleagues, this is an important and systematic bill. During the discussion, we made a number of changes. Let's talk for a minute about the factions that need to be put to the vote so that we don't go to the collapse of the most important bill. Mr. Igor, I'm asking you to stop this circus at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Igor, I'm asking you to stop this, Igor. No, it's not. It's just a circus in the Supreme Council, my friends. Colleagues, one minute from the factions, please. Dombrowski, Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you first of all to put order in the hall. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put order in the hall and not allow an important vote to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I want everyone's attention! We are considering one of the most fundamental laws that we have before us. I'm looking at this situation as a way of trying to break the session of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, I urge you. I'm asking from the People's Front, Igor Lapin. One minute, Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I don't know who found the toy there, but I'll tell you that my boys from Idar are sitting on the Marinka, and they really need these things. If you want to take this vote, you're not just traitors, you're Kremlin agents. [[Applause]] That's your first remark. Get this quadrocopter to my boys at Marianka. They're sitting 200 meters away from the booths and they don't know where anyone is. Shame on you, motherfuckers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u188	Colleagues, I agree that drones are needed on the front. As promised, I'll give you a minute. Mr. Dombrowski, I'll give you a minute, let you speak. Please, Sergey Vlasenko "The Fatherland." One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the excitement of the people who voted for two, three, four, that's the pepper. Secondly, no article in the Rules of the Supreme Council is in violation of the said thing, if anyone thinks he is in violation, show me an article in the Rules. Third. I'm informing those who are concerned about drones on the front. Today, after the vote, this drone will go to the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u190	From the "Radical Party" Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u191	Oleg Lazko "Radical Party". I ask colleagues to pay attention to the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides for a clear list of the powers of the President of Ukraine. Law, this list is exclusive. The law that you are currently trying to conduct on the national commission on regulation of the utility market is anti-constitutional. Since the President does not have any authority, the Constitution provides for the formation of the NCRECR. Founded in the current warehouse of the NCREKP, headed by former manager of Roschen Wolf. It's a wolf in sheep's clothing. Who are now setting up looting tariffs by robbing Ukrainian citizens. So the Radical Party faction, which is unconstitutional, which gives the President non-constitutional powers to influence energy, will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u192	Self-help. You don't need a word, do you? Please, Podlisecki, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u193	We propose to vote, and we urge everyone to vote in favour of the bill and to support it, because what the representatives of the commission are currently making, it is not really within any framework. And this is actually a crime in front of the people they create daily, on a daily basis, they are not governed by the Constitution or under any law. Yes, of course, there are some observations about constitutionality and in the new law, but this needs to be raised and changed to the Constitution. Regrettably, there has been no regulation regarding the immediate rotation and replacement of all members. But even if we do, we need to adopt this bill and control how the competitions are going to go, and accept and approve people who are professional, independent, and objective. Everyone, please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u194	So, please, now the People's Front is Maxim Burbak. Then it's "BPP." And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you that in the previous call, which was in 2012, when the opposition was united, we had a group that did not follow up on the personal vote, and then we didn't have to have any quadrocopters, nothing, and then we had to keep an eye on the regions that most of us were in the room -- I remember that. And please come in and watch. Second of all, I'd like to remind you of a saying that a thief and a hat burns. They scream so much about tariffs, they block the rostrum, they don't work properly, and they do everything they can to overthrow the voting on the changes in the NCREKP and the order of the committee. So tell people what you're doing, where are you right? This is populism, double standards, or tariffs, or we're doing everything we can to keep things the way they were, and in 2009 in the management of Ulysses Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, listen to me carefully, in the hall raised 15 hands, if we give our word now, we will not adopt any law. There are provocations and attempts to overthrow our vote. Let's finish the discussion and vote on this law. I, my dear fellows, will not give you one minute from the factions, as the faction will decide you, I will give you. But I understand that the faction is going to be Dombrovsky, then Irina Heratschenko's head of committee, and we're going to vote. Mr. Dombrowski, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to urge everyone to finish this parliamentary circus that we are currently observing. Because it's a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament and it's bullying people who are waiting for our decisions. And secondly, considering that the two amendments that we've been discussing here today are enough, the 17th and Mrs. Belkova, and the 28th, which I have introduced, which relate to the balance of power in the work of the regulator and which have support, and the vote of the committee, I ask and insist on re-support or vote, considering that the committee has made a positive decision on these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u198	Thank you. Please, one minute Irina Heratschenko, then Olga Valentinovna, and let's go to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, as the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to formally refer to the regulatory committee with a request, to consider at the regulatory committee violations of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which prohibits national deputies from bringing to the hall and using posters, slogans, speakers, other items that are not intended to provide legislative activity. I demand, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, that we consider today the violations and violators for three days leave the right to attend the meetings of the Supreme Council and vote. We should be with you, honourable national MPs, not allowing "walkers" who happen to be in the session hall to transform a higher legislative body, Parliament, into a circus, because it's not possible to imagine any European Parliament in the session room. Next, this drone costs 3,000 dollars. Today, when our boys are killed on the front every day, it's a shame not on the front, bringing it here, chewing gum and smiling. And to the other person who's wearing a "berberry" shirt for thousands of dollars is sitting under the rostrum and calling for a session hall to actually take care of the fate of the homeland. Please consider this matter, and for once in your life, punish the violators of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Let's honor the voters who sent us here and the room where we work with you. Let's vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u200	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Olga Valentine's Day, please sum it up and tell the hall that we have to vote. Mrs. Olga, I ask you to spell out the text of our vote under the transcript. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I point out to you that the BP faction has just insisted on re-voting for two amendments: 17 and 28. I ask myself to determine what we are doing with these two votes. Please let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of number 17. Whoever supports this amendment of the 17th, please vote. The 17th amendment, please vote on who supports this amendment. Please vote. [[13:57:12]] For-189 Not supported. And the 28th right. Then we go to the vote for the bill. Whoever supports the 28th amendment, please vote. Who for being in the body of the law, please vote. 28th Amendment, please. [[13:57:40]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Please, Olga Valentinovna, announce the decision we put to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by voting on each side we have partially changed the committee's version. And so I'm right now, despite the fact that this version is completely different than the committee suggested, we're still having discussions on the committee, and we're saying that the absence of a regulator is much more evil than the existence of a slightly compromising version of the bill. I go separately to the great tariff fighters, for their transparency, for the demonization of markets, please. I address you as "you," Comrade Sergei, both of you, and with great respect. I ask Oleg Valeriovich, Oleg Valeriovich, please review your decision. You have been misinformed, in the final version of this bill, the composition of the nominee committee of the contestant is determined exclusively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the participation of the President, and please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I therefore put to the vote, as proposed by the committee, the draft National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and municipal services (number 2966d) – a second-reading MP, and generally, a systemic, important law, colleagues, taking into account technical legal processing in the preparation of the law for signature. Dear colleagues, please vote, please support. Colleagues, shall we vote? Vote, colleagues? Vote, fellows! Please vote, colleagues, second reading in general. [[14:00:06]] For-188. 188 for. By factions, please turn on the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 73, "National Front" – 67, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 17, Radical Party Lyashka – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Party Rebirth" – 10, "Will of the People" – 12. Colleagues, I'm about to put you back on the vote. If not, for a second reading. But I think it's unfair when this titanium work that was done, the committee went to all the compromises, all the compromises that might have gone to the committee. And as far as I know, there is agreement, a common position, Mr. Dombrowski, Mr. Igor, to support the group and together the bill. I'm talking to all the factions: and the People's Front Block gave all the votes, 100 percent), the Self-Help Group, the Will of the People, and the Rebirth Group, the Radical Party, and the Fatherland -- let's support the return to the vote, let's make a big, titanic, systemic work today, by our decision. I'll bet you back again. If there are no votes, no second readings, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote, colleagues. My proposal is to go back to voting 2966d. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[14:02:09]] For 190 190 for. Colleagues, I'm making the following proposal: re-reading the second reading. Yeah? Mr. Igor, did I get it right? Mr. Dombrowski, read again. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. So that we don't lose the law, so that we don't lose all the work that was done, the second reading. Please prepare for the vote, everyone, please take your seats. And I'm voting on the next proposal. This is to re-read the draft National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Another reading. Please vote, please. [[14:03:16]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before you announce your recess, I'll tell you my position. What we've seen today is impossible in the U.S. Senate, the Senate of Parliamentary Canada or Britain. Like the Papuans, some deputies are acting. It's wrong, it's embarrassing. We have the privilege of demonstrating both our work and our activities to society. I thank you very much for your conscientiously active work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I'm calling it a break until 4:00. At 4:00, we'll continue our work. The following bills are equally important for us to consider. Thank you.
