ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, prepare for registration. We're starting our work. We've got a full day's work. But before, I think from the media you know about the incident that happened and the crime in relation to the national deputy Vladimir Parasuka. Well, as we know, law enforcement authorities are currently investigating. In this investigation, I think we need to hear information about what happened. And on the other hand, we need the law enforcement system to protect the national MP today. So I'm going to the law enforcement agencies to make sure that this issue is resolved. As we have dealt with this issue with the National Deputy Victoria Vojtsiecki, the investigation is ongoing today, the security is secured. The same is true of Vladimir Parasuk. But it's totally insane that people with weapons of war walk through the streets with grenades. And it doesn't matter who it refers to: a national MP or a private citizen without a special status, so to speak. And I think that the law enforcement system should respond very adequately. Yesterday, I received information from the Ukrainian Security Service regarding crimes that were against national MPs. Now we're going to analyze it and give this information directly to the faction for the Ukrainian national MPs. I'd like to concentrate your attention, your honors, on the order of the day. As we agreed, today we have a financial day, in fact there are a number of important financial instruments that we can consider today in the form of draft laws, this is the new Insurance Act, this is the introduction of new financial instruments -- derivatives, protection of consumers' rights to financial services. In particular, I would like to point out that a few weeks ago I was meeting with our miners, together with the people's deputies, the committee, we had a meeting. Look, miners today have problems with wages, modernization of government mines, support. And I think we've been working with them for an hour and a half, and we've found solutions. First. Today we have to vote with you and settle the debt within defined limits in front of the miners for their work is not easy. And second position. We have to provide funding for the construction of the 10th mine, which will provide 3,000 miners. I believe that next year this mine should be built and placed under a key. This is fundamentally important and more importantly, this possibility, I think, is in the state. And we, as Ukrainian national deputies and Parliament, have to support this. A particular issue is the support of family farms. I'm paying attention to you, too, dear colleagues. We have to support the farming movement in Ukraine. This is the very foundation that will allow agriculture itself, with a new intensity to develop the agricultural sector, create jobs in the countryside and expand both the list and increase the quality of agriculture that can be produced in different fields, yes, it is also livestock, vegetables. There are a lot of spheres that are underdeveloped today. So I think that this law is also extremely important. And the single question, colleagues, is attention! – draft Law on the Personal Responsibility of Officials for Abuse in the course of Checks. You have to put a dot in the abuse of those who go to check, terrorize business, write down millions of fines, and then get bribes and cheat protocols and acts. I believe that this issue also needs the support of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law was drafted by the national deputy, Oksana, for sale. There was another important question yesterday. As a result of our interaction with information technology representatives, we have decided to support the recommendation of parliamentary hearings, where there is a clear plan for the development of the IT sector in Ukraine. Today, the IT sector produces 5 billion dollars. $5 billion, sorry. By 2020, these figures can be tripled to $15 billion. And these are new jobs for Ukrainians, high-tech, and high-wage jobs. In the IT sector today, the average wage is almost $ 1 and a half thousand dollars. So I'd like to take this very carefully today, too, and support these recommendations. Finally, colleagues. We've seen recently how the National Anti-Corruption Bureau worked to apprehend a judge. Today, we have a number of issues to consider regarding the agreement to arrest and arrest judges. I am counting on national MPs to be in the hall and personally give the opportunity and consent to arrest and arrest the judges who committed the crimes. So I would ask all the faction leaders and group leaders to ensure the presence of the national MPs, as well as the presence of non-fractional national MPs in addressing these important issues. So, your honors, please prepare to register, and please register. Turn on the glade system for registration. [[10:08:47]] Dear colleagues, 334 national deputies registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear fellow national MPs, in good tradition, let us welcome our fellow Ukrainian national deputies to their birthday. [[Applause]] I haven't told anyone yet. So, Vladimir Ariev. Welcome, Lord, to your birthday. [[Applause]] Leonid Mikhailovich Klimov. Welcome, noble colleague, to your birthday. [[Applause]] Alexander Romanovich Onishchenka is also welcomed, my colleague, with his birthday, and we welcome him. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I'd like everyone to focus on the job. The first question is the draft Insurance Act. The bill is drafted by the Polish National MP Maksim Anatoliyovich. Prepared accordingly by the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Dear fellow national deputies, we take our seats. 1791-1 of the Insurance Act. There is an offer to consider it, the author's proposal, by a reduced procedure. But it is clear that we will discuss it as much as it takes to do so. Do we have a deal? Please be determined, colleagues, attention! – (1797-1) The Insurance Act. There is an offer by author Maxima Polakov to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please, we're on our way. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:11:44]] For-125 Okay, the proposal of the Polish National MP to consider this bill in a simplified manner. But this proposal did not get the required number of votes, so please have a full procedure. Maxim Polyakov, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u2	Good morning! You're going to have a bill on insurance in the new edition. The insurance market remains the most capitalized among other nonbank financial markets. The sector’s assets accounted for 62.5 billion dollars on 31.12.2015. Insurance reserves -- 17 billion dollars, insurance payments -- 29.7 billion dollars, insurance payments -- 8.14 billion dollars. The total number of insurance companies on 31.12.2015 was 361 insurance companies. The crisis in the Ukrainian economy, in view of the events that have taken place over the past two years, has also proved to be negative in the insurance sector. This is evidenced by the overall decline in the value of the sector’s assets, the decrease in their liquidity, the special assets placed in the banking institutions, and the NBA has been found to be unable to pay more than 70 banks and in the stock market. The cost of insurance insurance has also increased significantly due to the significant devaluation of the national currency. Such factors have significantly increased the risks of insurance companies. One of the main problems with the development of the insurance market is also the outdated legislative field in many respects. The Ukrainian Insurance Act was passed in 2001. At the time of adoption, this law reflected the state of the insurance market in Ukraine. But the current state of the economy of Ukraine, the development of insurance in particular, requires a change of approach to regulation in this sector. It is therefore appropriate to introduce a new law that reflects the real state of things and would form the basis for further development and integration of the Ukrainian insurance market into the world. The adoption of the bill remained extremely relevant due to the need for Ukraine to fulfil the conditions for entry into WTO and the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. This requires the harmonization of the standards of State insurance supervision and regulation in Ukraine and their compliance with the provisions developed by the International Organization in the field of supervision of insurance activities and directives of the European Union. The new edition of the Ukrainian Insurance Act takes into account the basic recommendations of EU, European Parliament and Council Directives of 21 November 2009 on the start-up and conduct of activities in the field of insurance and insurance, including Payability II. The project proposes to address such problems as insurance registration, solely in the form of stockholders' associations and the introduction of a new order of registration; defining the classification of sectors and types of insurance in accordance with the recommendations of the first EU Council Directive; establishing procedures for disclosure of information by insurers to ensure reliable insurance protection and prudential supervision of insurance activities; establishing eligibility requirements that take into account the quality of insurance assets; the establishment of requirements for owners, substantial participation and order of acquisition of a substantial participant; Clear regulation of the activities of intermediaries and persons who provide services to clients and companies in the field of insurance; Establishing requirements for corporate insurance management systems; the definition of how to regulate mediation activities in Ukraine, in accordance with EU legislation. The bill will also help to solve many of the other problems of our insurance market that participants face daily. The bill was prepared with the involvement of scientists, representatives of the insurance market, consumer rights associations in the financial market, and international donors. He had repeatedly discussed with the members of the Committee on Financial Policy, a banking activity, before the introduction. The sponsors of the bill are representatives of most factions of Parliament. The foundations of the law were supported by representatives of the World Bank and the European Commission. In addition, in the conclusions of the Government and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is proposed that the bill be adopted on the basis of further comments and suggestions made. The previous analysis of the proposals reflects the possibility of taking into account the vast majority of them, considering that they do not affect the basic positions and approaches of the bill. The Committee on Finance Policy and Banking also supported the recommendation of the adoption of the bill as a basis. I'd like to support you, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u3	Thank the rapporteur for the bill. Please sign up for 3 minutes for questions, please, 3 questions, please. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u4	We've already made our comments to colleagues from the banking committee. We understand that this law is called upon to re-establish insurance and there are many good ideas. But part of the formulations that relate to licensing and licensing that apply to regulation contain what we call discretionary powers, when one can read the norm or another. We don't see this as a desire for targeted corruption, but according to our classification, these are corrupt risks. Therefore, we ask that we take our comments and make every standard clear for the second reading so that no official can abuse it. Then we will not block the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u5	Well, that wasn't a question. Please, Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, there is actually a question. The bill is extremely important. I'm surprised there's no Ministry of Finance. Vladimir Borisovich, it's strange why not. Vladimir Borisovich, it's strange why there's no Ministry of Finance. I think they should express their position. Regarding the position of the Committee on European Integration. Unfortunately, this bill does not meet the standards and our obligations under the implementation of the directives. This is primarily the case with the registration and cancellation of registrations – these are self-sustaining organizations and insurers and their authorizations and a number of others. In fact, when a committee plans to enforce or pre-harmonize this law, it's probably quite inappropriate today. I'd like to hear from the Ministry of Finance. But I think we need to get this bill back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, you can answer. What if the government didn't send the minister of finance to address this issue? That's a question for the government. Please. Sergey Ivanovich Kiral. And then you're going to answer all the questions right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u8	Mr. Sobolev, regarding your comments, we will certainly consider them on second reading. As for Mr. Semerak's proposals, I want to say that the government has given us support for the bill. And for the EU, that's where we've taken all the proposals, the EU's Payments Directives II, and we've worked with experts. I just think you've been reading it a little bit carelessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Sergei Kiral. One minute, one last question. One last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u10	Thank you. I have one question regarding the amendment to article 95, which introduced a new paragraph, which states that the law may lay down requirements for the establishment of a foreign legal entity in Ukraine. So what's the relevance of this standard, because it's, well. That at least sounds pretty discriminatory and. Can't we have problems with our international partners or international treaties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u11	Today's absolute majority, if you're going to get some kind of enrollment or substantial participation, more than 20 percent, yes, they're going through the Antimonopoly Committee, and everybody else. If you see any, they may be discriminatory. Now, well, it's working today, but it's just that we worked with European donors on this part, we can change it to second reading, I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u12	Thank you. Please take your place, Mr. People's Deputy. Please, Sergey Fish. Please, Sergey Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u13	Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! Finally, this system bill was reached in Parliament. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking considered it on May 19, 2015, which is 10 months ago. As my colleague said, the legislative field in the insurance sector is extremely outdated, so the insurance market and consumers of insurance services have been waiting for an updated basic law for more than a year. The adoption of this document is necessary in view of Ukraine’s implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. It is important that the document foresees a significant increase in the level of protection for consumers of insurance services. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions made. The Cabinet of Ministers also supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of further comments. According to the committee, many of the suggestions are right and deserve attention. But all these suggestions can be considered when the bill is being drafted for second reading. The bill is politically colored and co-authored by most parliamentary factions and groups. The Committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Ukrainian Insurance Act (No. 1797-1) as a basis. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u14	Thank you. Questions to the coconspirator. Please have three questions. Sign up. Ruslan Demchak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u15	Sergei Viktorovich, as has been known for more than six months, has been postponing two bills, so-called plots, namely the transfer of powers to a commission that regulates the financial services market, the National Bank of Ukraine. Will this law that we are considering now conflict? And the new powers, including those laid down in this law for a commission that regulates financial services markets, will not conflict with that new project for the transfer of functions to the National Bank of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u16	Thank you, Ruslan Evgeniovich, for asking. I don't think he's going to conflict. We know that there's a bill on the transfer of functions from Nazfin Service to the National Bank. But let's, I think, solve problems as far as their supply is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u17	Please, Slippery Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u18	Thank you for being able to ask questions. (Here I am.) I would like to ask you to take into account for the second reading that consumers complain very often that insurance companies are underestimating the level of guaranteed compensation that is insured in the event of bankruptcy of insurance companies. That's the first one. And the second. Whether or not the state also acts as a supervisor for insurance companies and guarantees, well, when insurance companies go bankrupt, the return of guaranteed deposits to the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. We'll consider our committee, your proposal. Indeed, there are many suggestions that should be considered after the first reading. And we're proposing to create a working group, and all of these proposals work. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u20	Thank you for your answers. Please take your place as a national deputy. It's a faction statement. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the recording. It's a faction statement. Please log in from factions. Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Under the Association Agreement and the Implementation Plan, which the government has approved, we should harmonize our legislation. And there are four directives. For the authors of the bill, I would like to say that I have looked at the bill in detail, perhaps even different from some authors, and I would like to say that it distances our legislation and does not fulfil our obligations. I would like to take this opportunity to say that only the basic provisions of Directive-2009/138/EC are included in the bill. While a large number of the above-mentioned requirements for the activity in the field of law enforcement are not reflected in the directive. Part of setting the conditions for obtaining licences in the bill does not take into account the requirements of Article 18 of this Directive, which provides that a Member State should require all insurance undertakings intending to obtain a licence to limit their activities to insurance and related activities, excluding any commercial activity, and that reinsurance undertakings should limit their activities to insurance and related activities. In addition, article 11 of the bill makes it mandatory for insurance companies to participate in some self - regulated insurance organizations. While the conditions for obtaining licences according to Directive 2009/138/EC do not provide for compulsory participation in a certain association with the purpose of presenting interests. This is an additional pressure that we should not put into our legislation. Article 4 of Directive 2009/138/EC also contains provisions on the exclusion from the scope of the Insurance Insurance Directive according to the criteria of coverage of insurance activities, namely: according to the criterion of income from the annual total amount of signed premiums of the total technical reserves and so on. This approach is due to efforts not to put an excessive regulatory burden on small businesses, whose total annual coverage does not exceed the minimum set. Since the directive establishes strict requirements for the supervision and payment of insurance companies, the purpose of establishing more than one category of insurance undertakings is to be considered, depending on the scope of insurance activities and the application of a diversified regulatory approach to them. I see I'm running out of time, I have two pages of comments. I'd like to ask that we don't rush into adopting this bill, because we're going to have to respond to it as usual.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u22	Please, Alona Babak, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u24	Trust in financial development tools in our country has, unfortunately, been blown up. She's blown up, and she's in for insurance. The bankruptcy of insurance companies and the direct fraud of people in the 1990s, in the early 2000s, caused a complete lack of confidence in insurance in Ukraine. Without insurance, it is impossible for us to survive and develop our dwellings, our lives, and our jobs today. That is why this law is vital today. But today, the inability to get insurance compensation is also a sign of mistrust in the insurance system. We hope and hope that the authors of this law, including our colleagues, will put in fuses to restore confidence in insurance and improve the quality of life of people. But there are serious corruption factors in this law, as Jegor Sobolev points out. If these factors for second reading are not rejected, this vital law for the development of our society and the quality of life of humans will not be accepted in the second reading. So today we support this law in the first reading so that the next time this law becomes better, and trust in insurance in Ukraine and the development of the quality of human life is higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u26	Welcome, fellows! Welcome, Ukrainian people! Of course, the question is of great importance to our country. The Radical Party faction supports this bill in its first reading, but there are major shortcomings that must be corrected for the second reading. And I want to inform you that a historic event took place yesterday: the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted yesterday by a majority vote in favour of the decision to end diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. On behalf of the authors, I particularly want to thank Victor Ivanovich Vuka, Boris Tarasyuk, Igor Goose. If it were not for the position of these three national men, in this case, we would not have enough political will. Right now, it's the first step, the first worthy step we've taken against the aggressor country. Glory to Ukraine! Ukraine forever!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u27	National MP Yacenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Indeed, this Insurance Act has been on the committee for almost three years now, and the last call of the Supreme Council has been made by a working group, and I myself have been the author of 1797 and have withdrawn from the committee's request to create a single harmonized bill. There's a lot of criticism, but today the insurance market is actually down, and it's the only component of the financial system, the banks and the insurance market that is said to be floating this country. And so, of course, we need to reform, and we need to expand this market, and we need to introduce civilized forms like, for example, health insurance, which is in all countries. So the Rebirth Group will support this law in the first reading and propose that when it is adopted on the first reading, we create a working group that is working on it, and put it in this session in the hall to be adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u29	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, please, Fatherland. Alexandra Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I support my colleague, Mr. Semerak, in that I am surprised that there is no minister of finance present to deal with the insurance issue. What Is Insurance for the State? For the State, this is the first safeguard of relations with citizens in the part where there are serious obstacles, either to health or to other issues. In each country, the State places the necessary safety belt on a person’s belt, but it removes the financial burden from the State. For example, when Dnipropetrovsk’s home collapsed, for some reason the state took over the payment of a new home. In all the countries of the world, it's an insurance company and it pays off the insurance company, and insurance control is run by insurance companies because they know they're going to pay for it. We want to move on to health reform. If there's no transparent document and no insurance mechanism and no payouts, we'll never get there. This bill is unacceptable because it is not professional and is written on one condition: to maximize the functions of the authorized authority rather than to develop a competitive insurance market. And all the other remarks that my colleagues said, only this confirms that in part both licensing, and other moments, and reservation. A separate article in part 12 of article 106 is an actuary issue. I would like to point out that the Committee on Finance and Banking, apart from the Collectors Act, which must be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council in order to protect our citizens. We need to look at and write down the order in which actuaries work, because if we're talking about reforming the pension system and insurance, without reforming and writing out the order in which actuaries operate, it's not going to be real. And that's why we think the "Paternity" faction, this law is not acceptable, it's not professional, and we need to get it back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u31	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for the factions have ended. Please sign up from the national deputies of Ukraine, please. Three speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. National Deputy Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u32	Pass the word to Oleg Lavrik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u33	Oleg Lavrick, please. Oleg Lavrick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u34	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, the requirement for such a law is long overdue. I am even surprised that this law, which was registered in Parliament in February last year, has been here for over 14 months without consideration. But today, there is absolutely no systemic regulation in the market. legislative regulation of the market of insurance intermediaries working in the market and there is absolutely no confidence in insurance as a separate tool. Of course, the law brings the basic classes and categories of insurance into line with the requirements of the EU Directive. Now the law defines the insurance market for insurance intermediaries, three intermediaries: insurance agents, insurance agencies, and brokers. And we will need to bring that requirement to second reading in line with the directive, because there should only be two types of insurance intermediaries in line with the directive. We'll have to make arrangements to maintain administrative services from an authorized body. The market will need to be further developed for stricter regulation on the part of the regulator. More than once, it is said that the regulator who is currently doing regulatory work on the insurance market does not fit today. And the transfer of the functions of regulator to the National Bank, I think, is now in time for both order in the insurance market, and to clean up the insurance market that is now, from not quite the insurance companies that are doing their jobs professionally. There is a need for an electronic insurance policy in the market. So now we're working on another piece of legislation that's registered in Parliament so that there's no abuse and there's only one register of electronic poles. The self-help faction suggests that we support the bill in the first reading and the second reading in full procedure, make all the changes and additions that are in colleagues from other factions so that we can adopt the only system document in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Oleg Stepanovich Musei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u36	Honourable national MPs are certainly required and extremely required, a new edition of the Law on Insurance is long awaited by Ukrainian society. I would draw your attention to the fact that these bills are not supposed to push Ukrainian legislation back into the last century, but to keep pace with the requirements of European legislation. Instead, we have already heard in remarks from our distinguished national MPs today and, including the European Integration Committee, the bill, it does not take into account the current realities of the insurance market in the context of Ukraine's European integration. I would like to draw attention to health insurance and standards that are completely undisclosed about medical insurance in Ukraine. Clearly, it seems to me that the entire hall of health insurance is one of the ways to resuscitate the health system. Instead, health insurance in the sense of public health insurance, in the sense of compulsory public social insurance, instead of trying to extend the interests of private insurance companies in order to build health insurance in Ukraine exclusively on private health insurance, is absolutely unacceptable. Moreover, those remarks made by other national MPs do not allow for the possibility of changing the articles between the first and the second readings, since this is now the Supreme Council’s Rules. So I have a very constructive suggestion: if the drafters agree, send it for work and submit it to modern Europeans so that we don't correct, as always, those standards that are accepted by the incendiary. Thank you. I suggest we send him for processing. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Alona Babak, Self-Help, and we'll finish the discussion. Please come into the hall, people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u38	I'm not going to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u39	Thank you. I didn't say a word from the factions and groups. Oles Long, "The will of the people" is a minute, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u40	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we also had a discussion on this faction bill, but we decided to support it in the first reading. Why? Because it's a really big and systemic law, and it can be long debated whether it's ready or not. But if we don’t start to accept it and consider it and apply it to the second reading, the cart will still be there. I remind you that there is no insurance law in force today, and there are still Soviet standards. After all, 25 years of independence are worthy of us starting to regulate this market, especially since there are so many abuses on it. That's why we support this bill on the basis. And we ask everyone to pay attention in preparing him for his second reading. The authors assured us that they would consider all the amendments carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Maxim Polakov, the author's closing statement. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, a great request to support him in his first reading. In fact, we are working under a law that was passed in 2001. We have negotiated EU directives with Ostap Semerak and will take Mrs. Kugel’s position into account. But the request: if we don't accept it, you realize that now almost the insurance market is being destroyed, there's no regulation, there's nothing to work on, and we're wasting just a very precious time for our development. All suggestions will be taken into account before the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard the author's closing statement. Systemic law, we considered it as a complete procedure, we exchanged thoughts. I think there's a need to form a new legislation, a modern one. Obviously, there might be a lot of discussions, but this is about adopting this law as a basis, which means that between the first and the second readings, we can work on the committee and take into account the proposals, especially those that were made in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is better to start working on the law than to fail it. So please, colleagues, we take our seats and prepare for the vote. Please. Dear colleagues, the draft Law (registration number 1797-1), the draft Insurance Act has been introduced for voting, consideration and voting. Project of the People's Deputies of Polyakov. As a result of the full - time discussion, we exchanged thoughts. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, there is a proposal to accept it as a basis. And the same is true in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please. Ready to vote? 1797-1, based. Please be supportive. Vote. Based on the base. We're voting on the ground. [[10:47:32]] For 223 Dear colleagues, I have. Look at this. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, a normal insurance law: a systemic, fundamental law. Based on the base. There is an understanding of factions, but the inconsiderateness of the national MPs has just put Ukraine’s Law in jeopardy. It's fundamental. Now tell me, do we have to go back to him or should he be a failure? [[B in m in s a l in]] Should I? No, I'm just talking to the critics that we vote a few times. Please, colleagues, come on. There's an offer to go back to law school. When we criticize television, we need to speak objectively. Please come back. Please support the proposal of the National Deputies to return to the vote. [[10:48:35]] For 246 246, we had 223 votes. Because of the carelessness, the law had to be broken. Now we're back, 246 votes. Please be very careful, dear colleagues. Please base 1797-1. Based on the base. [[10:49:07]] For 242 242 votes. The law has been approved. And then we're going to the committee, and during the first reading, there's a lot of wise thinking here, and we're working on quality European law. Thank you. Let's move on. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulated markets and derivatives. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Demczak. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please specify a reduced procedure. [[10:49:55]] For 180. Decisions have been made. Please, Ruslan Demczak, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We just talked about the Insurance Act and talked about the markets financially. So the capital market is, in general, relative to the banking market and the insurance market, it's actually in decline. Today, a bill is proposed for your consideration of 3498, which conceptually reviews the system of regulation of the Ukrainian capital market. Thus, the Act (3498) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (regulatory markets and derivatives), authored by Demčak, Doubenko, Rizanenko, Rybalka, Kutovo, Tretyakov, Prodan, Galasjuk, Katzer-Buchovska, Polakov, Fursin, Kozachenko, Sverk, Ivchenko. As you can see, all the factions and groups have joined the authors of this bill. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to create preconditions for improving the efficiency and functioning of capital markets and other regulated markets in Ukraine, primarily through a comprehensive settlement of the functioning of derivatives and derivatives markets, legislative regulation of regulated market infrastructure, which is a very important and responsible task at the current stage of the development of the Ukrainian economy. Given the importance of its integration into Europe and the world’s economic common, the integration of European directives provides for the creation of a legal field for the settlement of market and non-market derivatives. Dealing with the construction of the infrastructure necessary for the full functioning of the derivative market. The Institute of Qualified Investors is expected to be established, and market management approaches are harmonized to trade in securities, derivatives, currency values, goods, and other assets on the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u46	This is the first time we've introduced the concept of escrow accounts. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports this bill. The National Commission of Securities, Stock Markets, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Economics, Development and Trade of Ukraine are also supportive. The Main Committee on Financial Policy and Banking recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of further development of the second reading. Please cooperate and demonstrate that the Supreme Council can unite around the laws that are important to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u47	Please, Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, report to the committee. Please, Sergey Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill is essentially a new concept of regulating Ukrainian securities markets and other financial instruments. I would stress that this is a long-awaited project of complex changes to regulate the derivatives system of financial instruments, derivatives. The committee worked hard on the project. On November 26, 2015, we held appropriate committee hearings and heard the opinion of the national authorities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as representatives of market infrastructure. All comments were made by concluding that this document could be accepted as a basis for further processing it, taking into account all the constructive suggestions. We have decided, in principle, that after approval of the project, an extended working group will be formed on the committee’s first reading, which will further develop it for the second reading. Dear colleagues, like any complex legislative initiative, this document can and must be improved. So let's take it as a basis and continue to work on taking into account the widest possible range of market observations, the representatives of international organizations, the experts who will be able to provide expert advice on how to make the best examples of international experience. I note the need for three more documents on derivatives, namely the draft Ukrainian Law on Tax, Budget and Customs Codes (3499, 3500 and 3516). Our committee is also asking for support for all these documents, and this bill is to be voted on as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u49	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Oleg Lavrick, please, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u50	The bill was indeed a difficult procedure to discuss with the committee. And then, I know, there were still big debates on the factions of this bill. The bill has a number of disagreements that need to be clearly changed and worked out, namely: it greatly expands the authorization of the National Commission from securities and stock markets, in particular by empowering it to regulate a commodity and monetary market that does not correspond to the name of the regulator itself. The bill and the amendments it provides for the liquidation of netting, the listing of the competing claims for derivatives with insolvent banks and persons in bankruptcy, put creditors, owners of such derivatives in a privileged position compared to other creditors. There is also a need for proper justification for the provision of the bill, which sets out the specific features of mortgages and bank accounts. But all of those corrections we talked about on the committee, and we agreed that they would be made during the reading period between the first and the second readings. So the Self-Help faction calls for support in the first reading and in full procedure for the second reading to prepare the bill for adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u52	Please give the word to Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! I would like to make a simple statement, because there are a lot of specific definitions here in this bill that will result from the adoption of this bill. We're actually restoring the capital market. The market of capital by its size may be commensurate with the banking market. In fact, we're giving an opportunity, including qualified foreign investors, to go to our Ukrainian market, and it's going to be a direct investment in our economy. As a result, there will be a fairer price on basic goods, which will be the basis for derivatives, and first and foremost, agricultural products. That is, farmers in Ukraine, not abroad, can receive a more equitable world price for their goods. So by creating and now supporting basic principles, we are creating a basis for investing in Ukraine's economy. I hope we support this bill, and I would like to say from the faction of Peter Prashenko that at our meeting today we unanimously supported this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, from the factions who did not participate in the discussion, Victor Halasyuk, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, this bill, it's systemic, it's perspective, it's one that contributes to the development of the stock market and foresees the creation of a new infrastructure that will provide for the derivatives of financial instruments. In plain language, what does that mean? This means one of the tools for deepening the financial depth of the economy. So we have to provide money for the real sector, and in order for the financial market to work properly. So, of course, this bill is not a panacea, and it is not the solution to all the problems that exist. Because we have to create an export credit agency, we have to secure the accumulation of international financial assistance for the purpose of lending small and medium-sized businesses. But this bill, it's useful, it can be improved to second reading, and all the other countries that have made a powerful economic leap, one of the ingredients has had such an increase in the financial component of their economy. So please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u56	Thank you. Please give me a minute, Taras Kutov. Please, just a minute. And let's go to the vote, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, with respect to all the remarks made today, but I also want to confirm that very much work has been done with this bill, I am one of the co-authors of this bill. Please be very supportive in the first reading, and I will tell you why. We're talking a lot today about bringing the agricultural producer closer to resources, we're talking about there's a lot of obstacles to these resources. And if we're talking about a small agricultural producer, he definitely can't work with those financial tools that are being used by large companies today, directly tools that are being traded in Chicago today and so forth. So if we want to give today a tool that will allow farmers today to get close to capital, we have to support this bill. Please support him in the first reading. And I wanted to add that we're finally adding an intellectual element to ours, including agriculture, by adopting such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, Natalia Katzer-Buchovska, please. We're getting ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u59	Comrades, good afternoon! The People's Front faction has decided to support the bill, as well as bills 3516, 3500 and 3499, amending the Customs Code, the Budget Code, the Tax Code (for regulation of markets and derivatives). I'm going to say that these bills are extremely important for the resuscitation of the stock market, the involvement of investments and the restoration of the Ukrainian economy. The bill envisions a conceptual review of Ukrainian markets, capitals, securities, and the creation of market infrastructure. It also defines for the first time the concept of derivatives and classification and the basic mechanisms for generating derivatives in and outside regulated markets. Adapting the stock market to European Union standards and many other standards that will enable the resuscitation of the capital market, attract investment and restore the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, we can go to the polls, honourable colleagues, take your seats. 3498 is a bill, a proposal to vote for it. Based on the base. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulated markets and derivatives. Please be careful, based on 3,498. Vote, 3498. Vote. [[11:03:39]] For 224 Why don't we break this law? Oh, no? Dear colleagues, national MPs, in order not to fail the law is important, I accept the proposal of the national MPs and put the vote back to the draft law, which has just won 224 votes. We vote in favour of returning to the demands of the national MPs. Return. [[11:04:30]] For 227 They voted in favour of returning to this draft law. 3498 on the ground. Please vote. 3498. [[11:04:57]] For 237 Please, 237 votes. The law was adopted as a basis, but it could have been broken. Let's move on. 3516 is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). Please, 3516, the author's proposal for a reduced procedure, please be determined. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:05:39]] For-188. A decision has been made. Please, Ruslan Demczak. Ruslan Demczak, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by Bill No. 3516 of 24.11.2015 amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). I inform you that this bill is systematically related to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts (for regulated markets and derivatives), which we have just adopted (3498) and is derived from it, which will allow participants to make capital markets available for more than a year. Financial Services Inspector. Considering that the amendments to the Customs Code are adopted by a separate bill, there is only a change to one paragraph 8 of part three of article 53 of the Ukrainian Customs Code, which suggests that if the documents that confirm the customs value of the goods listed in part two of that section contain discrepancies, there is a need to change the definition itself. And in view of this, the profile committee supported the bill amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). And I'm also asking today for a comprehensive adoption, and by the way, changes to both the Tax Code and the Code of Budget Similarity, today we're adopting a bill that is related (number 3516) to the Customs Code. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The bill, as you have already understood, has a very technical nature and is intended solely to reconcile the terminology of the Ukrainian Customs Code with the terminology of the law that we have just voted with you. There are no changes to customs procedures and customs controls of goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee, at its meeting on 16 March, also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives) (registration number 3516) of 24.11.2015, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies Demchak and others, as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u64	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, this bill needs to be supported, because it is technical, it is part of a package of this legislation on the development of the stock market. That's what we have to do. This is the future of Ukraine's financial sector. But, at the same time, I would like to highlight today's financial sector in Ukraine. No country in the world has ensured rapid economic development without the sound financing of the real economy. Is that what is happening to us today? No, it's not. Today, the National Bank of Ukraine, through its monetary policy, is actually stifling the Ukrainian industry. This is counterproductive policy. We're told that's how they want to stop inflation. Say, please, they want to keep inflation down, and prices keep going up, why? But because we're sitting on a needle of dependence on imported goods, we import, look, you have what is Ukrainian on your table? It's practically all imported. So we mostly import goods from abroad that we buy for dollars, for the euro, for another currency. And the National Bank can't keep up with the money. This will automatically impact inflation. This circle can only be broken by one way: by developing domestic industries, by increasing exports of Ukrainian production, by balancing trade balance. And to do that, you need to adopt a law about an export credit agency in the near future in order to support Ukrainian small, medium-sized exporting producers. Please take note of this, it is very important! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, as everyone has come to realize that the changes to the Customs Code do not alter any principled approach to customs control, it's just a substitution of definitions, and this law is purely technical. I'm asking you to support this bill. The only thing the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee spoke on was to vote on it as a whole. We can't vote on it as a whole until we work on the second reading, we vote on the second reading of the basic bill 3498. So I suggest that we vote it today in the same way as in the first reading and then in parallel with basic law 3498, we vote it out as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u68	Please, Alexander Danchenko, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u69	Good afternoon, colleagues! We're talking a lot of things with you about technical bill, technical regulation, and so we're looking at dozens of bills where there's a little technical amendment. What is the problem for the whole state? Instead of developing an investment strategy for the development of the state and making a derivative of it, we're back in the process of patching holes, making technical advances, and that's going to be endless. The bill is, of course, correct and needs to be supported. But we want to point out that countries need systemic change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill of Law 3516. Clearly, this is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine. In view of what we have accepted with you, 3498, and I believe it is absolutely fair to consider 3516 as a basis. And then together as they are today, we can accept them as a package of legislation to address this important issue. So, 3516. Please come, take your seats, we'll vote now. Please. Ready? 3516, members of the National People's Party, on the basis of our vote. Please be careful, 3516 as a basis, we vote. [[11:14:15]] For the 220. Are we going to work or are we going to pretend that we're working? I am grateful to you for your consideration of this matter. Please return to the 3516 vote at the invitation of the national deputies. We're going back. [[11:15:06]] For 229 Everyone, please stay in your seats. We vote in favour. Please base 3516. Vote. [[11:15:38]] For 235 The law was passed on as a basis. Let's move on, dear fellows. 3500. The author's proposal to consider. These are the same changes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Before we look at 3,500. There are two factions -- the Radical Party and Self-Help -- for a break. Substitute is an exit from the rostrum. Please, Andrew Lozov. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u71	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. On a quiet spring evening in the very center of Kiev, an explosion broke out. When my colleagues, Oleg Lášk, Igor Mósiyczuk, Igor Lucenk, and Sergey Evtušk arrived there, it was most frightening to see the frightened eyes of people from the surrounding buildings. Yesterday, as you all know, an attempt was made on our colleague, the famous native of the village of Majdan Jovkovsky of the Lviv district of Volodymira Parasuka. A grenade was fired. It's a miracle our colleague didn't get hurt. It was a miracle that an entirely random person, a simple man from this house, who was just walking with his dog at night, and then, grabbing her under the mouse, had to run. Starting in the new year, this is the third attempt on the part of the National Deputies. We all remember the casts in Sergija Rybalka, and we all remember the burnt - out car of Victoria Vojcitsky. Yesterday, grenades broke down in the center of Kiev. And by a miracle, only by God’s design did our colleague remain alive. It's not DNR, it's not LNR, it's not Crimea, it's not the front zone. It's Kiev. Say, please, what happens next if we don't increase security in our capital and everywhere in our country? What will happen next if no one investigates attacks on national MPs? What will happen if the Ukrainian Security Service investigates the case today at Vladimir Parasuka? Although the Attorney General's Office should, and I call for that, because there is a conflict of interest with the Ukrainian Security Service, specifically because of the situation with the deputy head of the K Department, General Song, the Attorney General's Office should report the case to Vladimir Parasuk of the Ukrainian Security Service. And it is the National Police that must investigate this violent crime in order to avoid conflict of interest. And most of all. Dear colleagues, Martin Nimöller wrote very correctly that when they came to see Social Democrats, I remained indifferent because I was not a Social Democrat, and when they came after me, I was not protected. It's a shame to be here that the ones of you who are left unattended are not left behind when our colleagues are throwing grenades at their cars, when they're being thrown at their cars, when their lives are in danger. If society, starting with the Supreme Council, swallows such situations, we provoke further terror ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, 3500: Draft Law on amending the Budget Code, as well as on regulated markets and derivatives. Please, please. There is a brief proposal by the author to consider the draft law, and I would like to be asked to be determined about the reduced procedure. Short-term procedure. [[11:20:07]] For-162 Decision approved. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, we'll give you a little more pain. As I said before, in addition to the changes to the Customs Code, we still have changes to the Budget and Tax Code, and we also have to vote them in bulk. Your opinion is proposed in Bill 3500 of 20.11.15 on amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). The bill on integrated resolution of capital markets proposes to amend article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget for Harmonization of Terminology, which is introduced by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). I inform you that this bill is systematically related to the draft Ukrainian law that we have already voted on today - 3498. And it's derived from it that will make it possible to give the market participants more than a year's worth of financial services. Once again, this change is only editorial and does not change the principles of funding from Ukraine’s budget. The bill proposes part one of article 16, paragraph 1, of the budget code of Ukraine, according to which the release and circulation of state-owned securities and securities issued by the relevant city councils and public authorities is determined by taking into account the Securities Markets and Stock Markets Act. The words "for securities and stock markets" are replaced by the words "for capital markets and other regulated markets." The Special Committee supported the bill to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. Constantine Ischeikin is the head of the budget subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Budget Committee at its meeting on March 16, considered bill 3500 on amending the Budget Code (regulatory markets and derivatives). Given that the bill is proposed in article 16 of the Budget Code, the name of the Law on Securities and Background Markets has been changed to "On Capital Markets and Other Regulated Markets" and the decision has been made that the bill is technical, it is derived from Bill 3498, which directly proposes complex changes to that law and specifies its name. Therefore, a decision was made to support the bill of 3,500 to ensure that the law was harmonized. The Ministry of Finance and the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets support the draft bill and, on the basis of the review, recommend to the Supreme Council bill 3,500, adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law, with the necessary technical legal rights following the adoption of the whole bill 3498, which we have just adopted and voted with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u76	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, similarly to the previous bill of amendments to the Customs Code, 3516 and 3,500 still propose to adopt this bill as a basis, and then to adopt it as a whole after the drafting of basic Law 3498, which is fundamental and will most likely be worked out in full procedure. So there is a proposal to vote on this bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u79	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction supports this bill because, as I said, this is the future of the financial sector of Ukraine. But the main thing to remember is that the financial sector of the economy makes sense and benefits society only when it serves the real economy when it serves the production of goods and services. Dear colleagues, what's going on in this area? And in this area, Ukrainian factories today, including machinery, are closing down, reducing their volume of activity, and this is against the backdrop of huge markets in the world. Look at Iran's market, it's huge for Ukraine today. What did Ukraine do today to enter Iran’s market with our machinework? Just one example. It is not enough that Kabmin's decision on Iran's sanctions has been revoked long ago by the UN Security Council Resolution. In addition, an expert credit agency has not been established. Where is the initiative of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank? There is no initiative. And at this time, I'm going to tell you that the Union Bank of the Russian Federation is spending $150 million, a loan, a Uralmashwagon to build and deliver 5,000 wagons of Russian production to Iran. They occupy the markets that we could occupy and have to occupy. India gives India's Eximbank a $150 million loan to the Indian industry to supply 150,000 tons of railways to Iran. Dear colleagues, what is happening to us? And the government says, "Let it go as it goes," and our National Bank says, "we're going to do macro-financial stabilization," and our Minfin says, "we're going to get new IMF loans." But you don't have to take those loans on gold reserves that aren't enough when we're totally exporting. And they need to be used to stimulate the export of finished products, machine building, and aircraft building of other high - value industries. This law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Please, we're taking our seats. Ready? Attention all national MPs, 3,500, on the ground. It's the same question, just since the amendments to the Budget Code, please. Please vote, 3,500, on the basis of the vote. Based on the base. [[11:28:41]] For 221 Who didn't make it? I'm about to go back to the signal vote so we don't have to criticise either, yeah. Please, for the return of the National Deputies, 3,500. We're voting for our return. Return. Vote, please. [[11:29:23]] For 231 Come back - 231, please. We're voting on the basis of 3,500. Based on the base. 3500. [[11:29:41]] For 229 The law was passed on as a basis. Please pay attention, fellow dignitaries, national deputies. 3499 is a draft of the Amendment Act. The same question to the Tax Code under reduced procedure, please vote. Short-term review procedure. Short-term review, please vote. [[11:30:13]] For 180. Please, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, the last fourth of the package is the amendment to the Tax Code. Similarly to the previous bill, which we considered 3516 and 3500, Bill 3499, these are changes of essentially editorial character to the Tax Code. No indicators, no figures, no tax levels change completely. The bill on integrated regulation of capital markets proposes to amend articles 14, 39, 70, 95, 141, 170, 173 and 196 of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Harmonization of Terminology, which is introduced by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for regulated markets and derivatives). And I want to point out that even these formulations, they're going to be the European Union's standards -- the ones that are accepted in the European Union. All the conclusions of the bill are positive. Please support the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u82	My fellow Members, once again, I would like to emphasize that this is a bill related to Law 3498 (as regards regulation of markets and derivatives), which means that they are all related and that we are now considering, now, technical laws. Is there still a need to discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u83	None. The committee concludes with a view to taking it as a basis. In the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, it has to be considered from 34. 98, respectively. In order not to waste time, technical law, I propose that it now be voted on as a basis. Are there no objections to fellow national MPs? None. Okay, let's vote 3498, sorry, 3499 is a derivative change to the Tax Code, 3499. Take your seats, we'll vote for you. Vote, everyone, please. [[11:32:57]] For 214 Please be careful, colleagues. Take your seats. Please give me a vote, 3499, please. Please be supportive. 3499, we vote. Vote! [[11:33:48]] For 225 All right, everyone, please remain in your seats and vote. Ready? 3499 on the ground. We've approved 3,498 as a base. It's in the development of this law all the other laws. Vote. Please be supportive. 3499 based. Vote! [[11:34:20]] For 233 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill is 3555. You know, I have a request: we would now consider these two laws -- 3555, 2300 -- and 3813 (the support of miners). Let's work fast, work hard, and support our miners. 3555, please: draft Financial Restructuring Act. Ruslan Demchak. No, he's reporting to the Deputy Minister of Finance of Chevalov. Do you have any suggestions for a reduced procedure? We're looking at a reduced procedure? There's an offer from the author, by a reduced procedure. Please, we are voting on the summary procedure 3555. Short-term review procedure 3555. [[11:35:24]] For 176 The decision has been made. Thank you. Please report to Artem Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u84	Thank you very much, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Financial Restructuring Act. This bill is designed to deal with the negative effects in the financial and real sectors of the economy that have been caused by crises in both the global and the national economies. But it also aims to help restore economic growth. The bill aims to create an effective and effective mechanism for voluntary financial restructuring of the debts of viable businesses in Ukraine and their pre-trial rehabilitation. The bill was developed with the participation of world experts, taking into account the best international standards and the world experience of financial restructuring. The implementation of the bill will have an undeniable positive socio-economic effect, as it will help preserve existing and create new jobs. This initiative will benefit businesses that are in a difficult financial position. The approach of the bills will enable businesses that have an efficient and potentially successful business model, solve the problem of payability and avoid the risk of bankruptcy, and thus return to growth. Financial restructuring will reduce the number of problem credits that will in turn help to restore people's credit and the real economy. The bill should be seen as an important component of national legislation aimed at taking action to restore economic growth. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Ruslan Demczak, report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, you have a view of Law 3555. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting on 26 January 2016 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Financial Restructuring Act was designed to deal with the negative effects in the financial sector caused by financial crises in Ukraine’s economy and the failure of the Ukrainian side to meet its obligations to international financial institutions. The project envisioned a complete non-conviction procedure, and it had no breach of the bankruptcy procedure itself, were the comments at the expense of that. The bill has been developed with the participation of experts from the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, taking into account international standards and the world experience of financial restructuring, which has been successfully registered. applied in other countries, such as Turkey, South Korea, Serbia, based on the London approach described in the guidelines for the financial restructuring of the Bank of England. The purpose of the bill is to create an effective and effective mechanism for voluntary financial restructuring of the debts of Ukrainian enterprises and their prior sanctions. The bill lays down, inter alia, the terms of the debtor’s participation and creditors in the financial restructuring process, the basic principles of cooperation between creditors in the course of financial restructuring, the debtor’s obligation to provide information and review his business activities, and so on. The main results of restructuring can be: reviewing interest-rate repayment periods as well as interest rates or other terms of credit agreement and other liabilities; providing new financial support to the debtor, which is very important; cancelling part of the debt; changing the corporate governance structure of the debtor; and taking other measures by agreed parties. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u87	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u88	On the basis of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act (No 3555) of 30.11.2015, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Create a working group on the committee involving representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Association of Banking Markets, to finalize the bill for second reading. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign two for two, two against. People's deputy Sugonako. National Deputy of Ukraine Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Borisovich, I will now address you first of all. There has been a great deal of talk on this subject. We will, of course, give our necessary votes to make the decision. But I want to draw your attention, it's not the only problem in the country today. Now in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, there are about 500 road users, representatives of the sector, trade unions from all over Ukraine, from all over Ukraine. And from Winnitz, by the way, from Winnitz, too. And they asked to speak to you personally as the future prime minister of Ukraine. To help set up a dialogue between Kabmin and these companies and they were finally paid back. If this isn't done in time, we've made a decision there, all the highways across the country will be blocked. And these people, and these people are going to work for justice. The return of money that the Ukrainian government does not return to them. They stayed with the coins, they had nothing to feed their children. And I apologize to the Ukrainian citizens who are going to be the hostages of these problems. We're doing this for you first. Because tomorrow after this financial field, after the miners, after the motorists, there will be teachers, doctors, and representatives of other industries who will be brought by the unions. In order for us to learn to understand, learn to find solutions, we today have to reach out to the unions and reach out to those people and find a real solution to the problem. We do not need to pretend that people are not there, nor do we need to pretend that we care about these people’s problems. Thank you very much, Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u91	Thank you for your comment. But since you have addressed me, I would like to emphasize again. Now there's no discussion of who's going to be Prime Minister. Now we're talking more about what's going to happen to Ukraine. Because as Head of Parliament, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, I will think about what I could do to help people with problems. Along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with the MP Corps. Clearly, each problem needs attention and a solution. Please, Yuri Solovay. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Anton Gerashchenko. Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the Financial Restructuring Act No. 3555. And I don't understand what my previous colleague, Deputy Caplin, was talking about. His statement did not refer at all to this law. The Financial Restructuring Act is needed by our country in order to improve the procedure for voluntary financial restructuring of the debts of Ukrainian enterprises, in order for our debtors and creditors to learn how to negotiate with each other before filing multiple lawsuits against each other. This is a civilized European bill drafted by the Ministry of Finance, which is why the People's Front faction will support this bill and calls upon other factions of Parliament and non-fractional deputies to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay, one minute. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u94	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of us that in 2008, when the financial crisis arose, one of the reasons for this financial crisis was the imperfection of our Ukrainian legislation, which allowed it to treat both creditors and lenders ambiguously. The bill is absolutely timely and we need it in order to avoid that kind of thing in the future. Moreover, to avoid allowing both creditors and borrowers in most cases to bring the situation to court, which is prolonged simply in time. And so I strongly urge all my colleagues to support this bill. In addition, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, I believe we also need to adopt a bill in the near future on bankruptcy and individuals. This is an extremely serious issue that has been discussed for more than a month in the walls of Parliament, which is absolutely necessary in the context of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Borislav Rosenblatt, one minute. Please come into the hall, distinguished fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, a very important bill, especially in the absence of a loan ring in our country. You know, there's a lot of businesses that want to have restructuring today, but they can't do it because there aren't any mechanisms. And banks aren't always as creditors go about improving one or the other. So in order for the growth of the economy to be implemented not only in words, but also in fact, we need to adopt this bill and allow people to find their understanding of creditors and start their way of restoring their production. This is a very important bill. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Ivan Rybak. Colleagues, we're taking our seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u98	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. The bill on financial restructuring is very important and we will definitely support it today, as it is one of the few bills that the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian business, really needs today. At the same time, I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers on the grounds that in the district of Cherniewec, the district authorities of road services have not received a salary for more than four months. And that's why we have to do something about it. And this bill needs to be supported today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are preparing to vote. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. So, dear fellows, let's move on to the vote. 3555 Draft Financial Restructuring Act. Ready to vote? Let's have a signal vote. Please support this bill is important. Please vote for the financial restructuring as a basis. Please be supportive. [[11:48:30.]] For 218. Please, we're taking our seats. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready? The Financial Restructuring Act 3555 is the basis. We're voting on the basis. Vote on the ground, please. Vote. [[11:49:12]] For 229 The law was passed on as a basis. 2300a is a draft law amending section III, paragraph 3, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine amending the Tax Code of Ukraine 2300a. There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. Maxim Nepheods. Dear colleagues, it is the government's proposal to repeal this bill. Please, Maxim Nepheodov, two minutes, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the bill of 2300 proposes that only Nazcomsia be excluded from the securities and stock market from the list of controlling authorities to which the moratorium extends, this is one of the requirements of the IMF. We know that in some factions there's a reference to this bill, we've heard these remarks. We, together with a group of people's deputies, members of the Committee on Enterprise and Industry, introduced a new, much more complex and systematic bill 3153 and a second reading, which includes taking into account the situation of this bill. So we ask this bill to be removed from consideration and supported by Bill 3153. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u101	Thank you. No objections, colleagues? If there's no objection, let's move on. 3813 is a draft Act amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on State Support for State Industrial Enterprises. Michael Bondara's project. I've told you that we have a number of laws to support miners and industry in general, and I'd like to focus on their consideration right now. Please, 3813, with a reduced procedure, please support. Vote. Short-term procedure, please support. [[11:51:40]] For 175 The decision has been made. Please report to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! On February 3, 2016, the Fuel and Energy Committee met to consider Bill 3813 and it was decided to recommend to the Budget Committee a draft bill for consideration in the Supreme Council for adoption on a basis and as a whole. 3813, the bill proposes to make an internal switch from restructuring, to just put it on hold, i.e. to pay miners 250 million, and just for the 10th "Novolinsky" another 100 million. So I will ask you very much to support this bill and to vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u103	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please report by Alexander Gorbunov, head of the budget subcommittee. But I would like to point out that I was meeting last week -- the national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, miners -- and we have adopted a number of agreed positions that can be adopted. Please, committee, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! On February 17, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 3813. The legislative proposal is to redistribute development expenditure within the overall budget allocations of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. It is proposed to set up expenditure on new budget programmes for state support for coal-based enterprises to cover the cost of coal-producing costs in the amount of 250 million dollars, to build mine No. 10 "Novolinska" in the amount of 100 million dollars for the reduction of 350 million dollars for the restructuring of coal-based enterprises. So the bill doesn't change the total amount of government budget expenditure. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that a well-balanced decision on the bill requires an appropriate expert conclusion from the government. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry expressed their position on non-support for the bill, noting that such a legislative proposal has risks of slowing down the implementation of coal restructuring measures and not addressing the problem of the sector that requires systematic reform. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, following its consideration of the bill, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. It should also be noted that, taking into account the regulatory technical requirements for drafting bills amending the State Budget Act, the text of the bill and its appendix contain a number of inaccuracies and errors that should be addressed. The relevant proposals are presented in a letter to the committee. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill on number 3813 to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law to take into account the committee’s proposals in the letter of conclusion and to correct the inaccuracies and the necessity of putting into prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u105	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u106	technical legal clarifications. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary legislative and technical clarifications to the bill. In addition, I would like to inform you that, given the need to address existing coal issues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has referred to the government, stressing the need to carry out work on coal reform, including the restructuring of coal-based enterprises, as defined by the Coalition Agreement and the "Ukraine 2020" strategy. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please two for it, two for it, two for it. Julia. Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u108	Igor Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u109	Igor Gus, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u110	Glory to Ukraine! Dear parliamentarians, I very much ask you not to depart and support this bill. In fact, today, Ukrainian miners do not have a penny to support the state. And the 10th mine, I represent this electoral district number 19, the miner's Novovolinsky, which is the only one built in the country, doesn't have a penny today. So what I'm asking is, independently of the political divisions here, all of you to support yourself in any way in order to give impetus to the Ukrainian mining industry a step-by-step move. And then we're going to see a situation where better economics and miners are now laying shoulders, elbows for the Ukrainian state in the struggle for energy independence. And the 10th mine is 30 million coal deposits for the future that will work for the Ukrainian economy. So I'm asking you very much to support this bill, it has no politics, it's a struggle for the interests of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Leo Podlisecki, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the appearance of this bill is not the first time. This is not the first time such a bill is in the Supreme Council. And in fact, the emergence of such a bill is a two-way assessment for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, because it shows that there is absolutely no strategy and right activity in the reform of the coal sector. Unfortunately, we are once again forced to vote in favour of the bill because it is the only way to help miners. Sailors are thrown away on their own, not able to get paid on time and be effective, and that's the main thing for any employee: to be effective at work. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. And I'd also like to pay attention to what my colleague Gus said about mine 10 of Novavolinska. In fact, it's an extremely important project that Ukraine has to complete in any way, but to understand that Mine 10 of Novovolinska requires investment to finish, more than a billion. That's 100,000 dollars, that's what it is. 100 million dollars is the minimum amount of money to keep this mine from losing and losing by next year. So let's support it, but for the future government, and I'm particularly interested, for a future effective energy minister, it has to be science, and it doesn't have to lead to this situation in the mining sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u113	Thank you. I have to comment. Just during the meeting, the work meeting I was conducting, I also pointed out that we need a strategy. And we agreed that the government would present, in particular to Parliament, a monthly strategy for the development of the sector and solving the problems that have accumulated today. It's true that this bill is now -- it's localizing the issue. But as for the 10th mine. The 10th mine costs me less than a billion dollars to figure it out. But if we start. That's about 700 million. If we start. And it takes 14 months to build, according to experts. And I think if we were to start a continuous construction process, for example, in October months, we could complete this construction in general next year. So this 100 million is exactly the beginning of a few months. But you can't start a mine to build or complete and stop. This has to be done: start and finish. That's why it's decided that this 100 million is going to be about getting ready for completion. And it obviously needs to be completed and put into operation. Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! It is certainly an important bill, but unfortunately it does not solve the complex problem of the coal industry. A State support strategy and a public programme are needed today. What do we think we should do first today? It's a moratorium on mine closures that contain intelligence. Today, such inadequate government policies have led to the collapse of mines, and mines are closing. Of course, we need to support the Novovolinian Mine, but I want to remind you that there is another Lysicanskogol, there is a First-Mayscohol, where there is a huge stock, a crazy potential. But these mines are now out of state attention, and people have no support. We returned to the 1990s, when the wages owed to miners are already more than 800 million bracelets, and the 250 million issue is only a one-minute supply. We insist that the debts of coal miners be eliminated urgently. There is a need for second reading to increase funding. We also understand that it may be beneficial for someone in Africa to buy coal, and because of this, it is falling in Ukraine today. But the public price of coal must be in line with the market price, and coal must be bought first of all in Ukrainian. I would also like to remind this Parliament that, five years ago, the Hall was united, and I am enacting a law on the prestige of mining. Today, this law has been abolished, and today the people -- heroes who descend into the mine and ensure Ukraine's energy security -- are deprived of any support and protection. We therefore insist that the State programme and support for the coal industry be a priority for our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Alexei. Alexi Mushak? Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block. And get ready to vote in favour of the miners. Alexi Mushak. Please, Alexei Muschak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Of course, the bill needs to be supported. At the same time, I have two positions. The first position is that our coal industry should be profitable, not profitable, sooner or later. This means, including that we will sooner or later have to make difficult decisions about closing down the damage mines. The second position on this bill is that I don't think it will be able to fully act without some standards, because I think there are other representatives and advocates of the coal sector who are not included in this bill. That's why I propose that we complete this bill's "Final Position" with the rule that it is considered to have lost its validity under article 32 of the State Budget Act 2014. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. Draft law (registration number 3813) on the 16th year State budget, amended by Alexia Musaka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, come on, please. Dear colleagues, ready to support? Ready to vote? Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats. Prepare for vote 3813. Ready, fellows of honor? Please, 3813 as a whole, with Alexia Musak's amendment. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:07:01]] For 280 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues! I'm proposing 10 minutes to resume the session. Stop, fellows! We have another Mining Act: 0929. Shall we start with him? All right, good fellows, good. We have no right to break this law. That's why I'm calling a break under the Supreme Council Rules. But I'd like everyone to be on time. We have 0929 -- The Act on Improving the Presence of Mining in the Second Reading. And 1599 is the question of stimulating the creation and operation of family farms. That's why we're going to start our work. Please, I'll call it a 12-hour break for 45 minutes. Please come to the Supreme Council on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our difficult work, the continuation of our work. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Dear colleagues! Once again, I urge the deputies to enter the hall. We can't start work, we're not enough in the hall. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you on such a matter. There are still factions of some, yes. We have bills in the second reading right now. But I'm talking to the authors that there may simply be no votes for that right now. And I have a proposal to go over the laws of the second reading, and to go over to the chapter "first reading," this is the law to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on reducing the deficit of black metals in the internal market with the aim of providing first-hand protection industry needs and rebuilding infrastructure objects. This is a project by the national MP Láška and to start working on this bill. Are there no objections, colleagues? None. Colleagues, therefore, we begin our consideration of Oleg Valeriyovich, the first draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Reducing the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market, with the aim of providing first-line protection to the needs of the defence industry and rebuilding infrastructure. Anyone who supports the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. For the summary procedure, please vote, [[12:56:08]] For-63 Since the bill is extremely important, the House has the political will to consider it fully. And so I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich, to report. Victor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u119	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I would like to introduce to you the draft Law 3868 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine on reducing the deficit of black metals in the internal market with the aim of first-hand securing the protection industry's needs and rebuilding infrastructure objects. The purpose of the bill is to ensure a normal regime for the operation of the domestic mining and metallurgical complex and the provision of raw material for metallurgical enterprises. Dear colleagues! I'm just going to explain to you what the problem is and what the solutions proposed by the bill are. Ukrainian metallurgy is more than a quarter of Ukrainian industry and more than a quarter of Ukrainian exports. These are hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs that are paid 40 percent more than the average in Ukraine. Today, metallurgy is the foundation, it's the foundation of the Ukrainian industry. Of course, we also have to develop a powerful superstructure over the Ukrainian mining and metallurgical complex, develop domestic engineering and other high-tech industries, but if there's no foundation, there's nothing to build a strong economy. What's going on in the mining complex today? It's not a secret that today we're hit hard in the external markets by competitors, especially China. It is not a secret that prices for production, including the mining and metallurgical complex, are falling very seriously, that creates an unfavourable price environment, which leads to a critical decline in Ukrainian exports. Unfortunately, in many ways, the decline in Ukrainian exports by several tens of billions of dollars in recent years has been a lot of things, due to Ukrainian metallurgy, because we are being squeezed, on the one hand, from the external markets. On the other hand, unfortunately, our government has not yet been able to create a normal, effective programme for the development of the internal market for the consumption of metallurgical products, construction projects, large-scale infrastructure projects under the State private partnership model and so on. Today, the potential of the internal market is extremely limited. In fact, the domestic mining and metallurgical complex is almost 80 percent oriented towards external markets. They're not waiting for us in these markets, they're just looking for us to get kicked out of there, how to get us out of there. It's not just about Ukrainian metallurgy, it's about other industries of our industry. What happens at this time? At this time, when we're taking one of the main questions for Ukrainian metallurgy, the issue of raw materials. What do we see here? Metal scrap, it's a raw material for all Ukrainian metallurgical enterprises, in a way or other, some of them are working completely on scrap metal. After all, metal spills are much more efficient, including ecological ones. That is why Ukrainian metallurgy, for example, supplies 80 percent of exports to Turkey, since Turkey has an extremely powerful Turkish national industrial policy. They're doing everything they can to provide their metallurgy with raw materials. They find this raw material in Ukraine. So what's going on in the raw material market for the mining and metallurgical complex? I'm not going to go into a lot of detail, I'm just going to give you a few examples. Black metal scrapping is shrinking dramatically. If it was 7.5 million tons in 2011, the forecast for 2016 was 3.6 million tons, the fact that 2015 was 4.2 million tons. At the same time, as metal scrap metal is substantially reduced, metal scrapping exports have increased dramatically in recent years. If in 2013 the metal - scrap exports were made up of 300,000 tons from Ukraine, by 2015 it had grown fourfold and made up more than one million. 1.2 million tons of exports. Today, on the one hand, metallurgy is being reduced, on the other hand, by the state's inefficient trade policy, in fact, to facilitate the export of unprocessed metal scrap metal abroad, where it becomes the product of the metal industry, where it becomes the product of the machine industry and enters us, Ukraine, in the form of finished goods that cost 3-5, and even more than the raw material -- the same situation that we have with the forest round. I want to tell you that there are several ways to solve this problem. There are two extremes: one extreme is that up until recently, unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics has been trying through us -- a committee to make an amendment that would even abolish the licensing of external economic operations -- that is to say, in general remove the quota of any goods, including metallurgy, thus completely liberalizing the market, so that Ukrainian metallurgy would go abroad without any barriers. This is one extreme position. The second extreme position that also exists in this room. There are national MPs who are offering to completely ban the export of scrap metal from Ukraine, just as we did with the exports of roundwood for 10 years. But we -- and the faction of the Radical Party as the faction that initiated this bill and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise -- took a more balanced position on this issue. This more balanced position is that without banning the administrative removal of scrap metal abroad without imposing strict quota restrictions. limited by law for the export of scrap metal, we proposed, instead, through Bill 3868, after a close dialogue with Ukrainian metallurgy exporters of scrap metal in cooperation with the Ministry of Economics: for 3 years, to increase export duties for scrap metal from Ukraine from 10 euros to 35 euros per tonne. I would like to point out that this proposal is fully in line with our commitments to the World Trade Organization. Although, on the one hand, we have certain obligations, on the other hand, I would like to point out that for today, a temporary increase in the rate of export duty is conceivable and is based on a reference to specific exceptions provided for by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. In particular, article 21 “Security Exceptions” provides for the right of the State to apply restrictive measures in order to protect its national security. The State itself identifies the issues that relate to the issues of national security and the measures that must be taken to address the situation. We realize that today, during an anti-terror operation, we realize that today, in critical conditions, metal scrapping and increasing its simultaneous exports, stopping for quite a long time a number of factories and providing the current metal industry with less than 80 percent of the need, it's critical because it directly threatens Ukraine's national security. Our approach to this bill is no different from that of a consistent industrial policy led by the Radical Party and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. We stress that in addressing these issues, we have to get out of state interests, out of the country's interests, we have to assume that exports of finished products instead of raw materials give much more added value, much more coming to the state budget, providing our fellow citizens with jobs, allowing them to solve social problems, allowing Ukraine to rise in value chains. I would like to point out that this bill (3868) is one of the two bills that we submitted to Parliament with a package, the second bill (3973) on the reduction of imported import duties for scrap metal from 5 percent to zero percent yesterday was considered by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy and, as proposed by the author, Oleg Ljashka, was supported by the proposal to consider it and to support it as a whole as a law. So this is a complex approach to regulation. In addition, I would like to point out that the committee is proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading on the basis of developing it for the second reading, carrying out additional consultations, transparent, open-ended tables with industry experts, with producers in the metallurgical sector, as well as with exporters of scrap metal for the final harmonization of the export duty rate that will be in place during this three-year transition period. I would like to point out that in addition to raising the rate from 10 to 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u120	How much? One minute. Please, one minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u121	I would like to point out that this bill also provides for these three years to be different from the mechanism of metallurgy, which allows to be avoided. which prevents the corruption of manual distribution of quotas for the export of scrap metal, corruptive mechanisms that exist today. So this bill simultaneously ensures the normal functioning of the mining and metallurgical complex. This bill also addresses the issue of increasing revenue to the state budget and ensures the removal of the corruptive factor of distribution, manual, quotas for metallurgy. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this bill, aimed at developing the Ukrainian industry, in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u122	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Now we have a question for the reporter. Dear colleagues! I'd like you to hold the record for three minutes. Please. Chicken Maxim Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I realize that there are so many indignations about this bill. But what I want to point out is that junk and scrap of black metals are strategically important for the metal industry of Ukraine. The unbreakable normal work of the industry is certainly within the national interests of the state. In recent years, it has been the artificial deficit of metal scraps that has been systematically generated in Ukraine. Everybody knows a lot of abuses during the issue of quotas at the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Half the countries have left. Today, 7 percent of Ukraine’s territory is in a temporarily occupied territory or uncontrollable to the Ukrainian authorities, and this creates a barrier to uninterrupted work. To whom is war, and to whom is the mother of kin. That's why, I think, in order to put speculators who profit from war in place, it's necessary to adopt this law in first reading, and then in terms of the exact size of the specific rate of export duty, we're going to get a concrete agreement on the committee. Thank you for your attention. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u124	Is that a question or a speech? Is there a need to answer? If there is no need to answer, I give the floor to Head Michael Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u125	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the author. In principle, I want to say that this bill is really quite necessary because this situation in the metal market, it tells us that we're actually going to suffer huge losses and losses, we're losing jobs, we're going to lose budget. But I have a question about the next point. Please tell me, wouldn't it be more logical and more appropriate to take out the VAT on our metal scrapper exporters? Because that's how they get up with competitive advantages. And our companies that work in Ukraine and buy scrap metal can't automatically offer the price that exporters export abroad, to Turkey or to Moldova. After all, the government compensates them for another 20 percent of VAT. And so it's more interesting to export metal scrape abroad than to process it in Ukraine, in the country, and thus create jobs, and produce ready-made products. It's not raw material, it's finished production. And please tell me, do you support such a proposal and such an idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for your offer, for your question. I want to say that in parallel with this package of laws that we're considering today, including a package of laws on changes to the Tax Code that can also cover the issues that you've raised. So I invite you to join the copyright team. And we, together with the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, will deal with these and other issues, including taxation on the income of individuals who collect scrap metal. In order for us to legalize and ensure normal working conditions for the Ukrainian mining and metallurgical complex, which today is the "active cow" for the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u127	Thank you. Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u128	Too many people are now covered in the high name of a businessman. It's not really like that, though. Can it be called a barrage businessman and a speculative who bluntly loads his pockets, causing irreparable harm to the national interests of the state? You're talking about corruption during quota allocation. And if, well, think about it, if there were just no quotas, and just banning scrap metal, maybe there would be no corruption?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Timoshenko, thank you for your question and for your idea. As I have already pointed out, this was a solution to the problem, but after appropriate consultations with the Ministry of Economics, with professional associations of enterprises, and consultation with Geneva on what option will be accepted by the World Trade Organization, we are still inclined to this economic option, not an administrative rigid ban, but to the economic incentive of metalworking exporters to secure domestic raw materials in an economic way. At the same time, such an option is acceptable to the state, as well as to one that has every reason to be accepted by our international partners, the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u130	Thank you. Victor Valeriyovich, time for questions is up. The factions are about to come from the factions. And I'm asking you to record a statement from the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please record. Sergey Volodymyrovich from the opposition block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Matvinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, when we consider this issue, it is unfortunate that the thought that is not good that we will speak in such a way. Unfortunately, we do not have a clear software system to support the basic sectors of the economy. And unfortunately, we have recently begun to lose export-oriented industries such as metallurgy, engineering, chemical industries and a number of other points. I'll tell you when we had an export of five million tons of scrap metal in our time, and in the same room, Parliament was worried. And there was good will for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the deputies to correct and correct the system a little bit. At the time, it was the goodwill of the Cabinet of Ministers that understood that basic sectors of the economy needed to be supported. And we then adopted an experiment in a mining complex that created priorities for the development of metallurgy. And everyone knew that metallurgy was like a locomotive, like the base industry would take out miners and chemists and miners and repairers and so on. These were, and they were, supported jointly by the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament, and that was a positive result. Today, when we talk about what these measures should be, clearly, we support these measures, we are well aware that steel industry needs to be supported to date. Moreover, today is a very serious export problem. Today, we face a tremendous challenge of self-sustainment, quality of output and many, many moments. We're losing external markets. We understand that metallurgy is the basic sector that is completing the budget. These measures must be taken and the law must be upheld. But here I'd like to say a little "but." This law is not new. We made exactly the same decision in 2002, and we imposed Euro35 on exports of exports to scrap metal at the time, but it was a well-thought-out system. It's important to remember one thing. First. We are working in the STO system and we need to understand that we are working in the legislative field and that we must act on the basis of the rules and laws in force is the first moment. And the second moment that we need to understand is that metal is also a industry. It's also a workplace, it's also a new technology and equipment that's attracted to scrap metal mining, scrap metal processing. And this needs to be taken under the state control system, and this is where the state's position, the state line, has to work. Indeed, scrap metal is today a strategic commodity. And we need to develop and write this legislation so that it doesn't hurt, and we need to give the metal industry a priority. Therefore, in order to adopt the bill in the first reading, we have in mind, indeed, round tables, to invite all producers, both metal producers and retailers. We've done it many times in our time, we've had discussions, we've found compromise solutions to keep our basic industry here and find a proper solution for metal producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u133	Thank you. Yvchenko gives the word to Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! It's a fine bill. I want all of us to stop for a second and I want to talk to the BPT faction about you changing your mind and voting for this project against a decision you've made in the morning that you're not voting on. Because I began my career at the age of 19, as assistant director of the largest project metalworking institute in Ukraine, Ukrdipromes, in Dnipropetrovsk. And that's exactly what the previous reporter said, that because of the experiment, actually some active action of the state, we saved the metal industry at the time that we just wanted to take it all out into metal scrap. And now we have to understand just as clearly as we do that the whole world is fighting for raw materials. I don't think there's a lot of people here who don't understand it left in this room. There is no fair and free trade in the whole world. Look at the Free Trade Agreement. When we said a year ago that there were a lot of problems in it, we looked at it as if it wasn't full of the mind that you were telling, it was a wonderful deal. Quotas have been running low for two months, with 100, 200, 300 per cent of restrictive duties on top of these quotas. Everyone trades where the added value is left, and they use it as their conscious agents, who are paid funding on a permanent basis, as well as so-called useful idiots, people who believe in utopia, a nonexistent model. When Ricardo’s work on free trade was released in 1918, it meant only one thing: English companies were tired of driving military fleets in their warehouses to cover markets because they were all built on value added control. Previously, the governor-general with the garrison was controlled, and the metropolis with the colony was exporting raw materials, and it was reprocessing itself, and now it's controlled by the sanctity of private property rights. And the same England has been collecting customs taxes for over 100 years. You and I have a living example of another in our history. It's nice to have an oil industry. I think it's not bad, and when you ask everyone -- wonderfully, billions of taxes remain, added value, some jobs. How did it survive? They introduced a restraining duty on seed exports, which was just constantly exported. We've loaded our existing oil extraction plants, and we've built dozens of new ones. Right now, Bunge's company ended up building a new enterprise in Santa Claus for 2.5 million tons, a new factory. All government policies must be geared towards creating conditions for the raw materials to be processed inside the state. And so I ask you very much to support this bill, this is really a breakthrough thing, and it shows that we become subjects, not objects. And finally, I'm going to ask you to understand that it's an added value and it doesn't matter who owns it, let our oligarchs transfer pricing, control, control, eventually implement it, and tax in this direction. Let's raise the rents, but leave the raw material here so that the added value stays in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Froll, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! I represent the Metallurgical Zaporozhye in Parliament, so I am well aware of the problem that is reflected in this bill. I'm going to say right now that the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block discussed this bill in detail at its meeting, we're going to support it, we're going to support it, we're going to support it in the first reading, because today it's one of the sharp problems that is related to the basic sector of our economy -- the metallurgy. But this law must be carefully worked out. It raises debate on many issues related to the export duty, which is marked by the law as one ton of 35 euros. This must certainly be discussed with experts and discussed primarily in order to preserve the production of metal harvesters. That is, the law is certainly necessary, the law is certainly important, and we need to give more consideration to the laws related to ensuring the activity and development of our economy. But it must take into account the conditions of existence, the functioning of all the people working in this field. So I urge you to support this law in the first reading and to refine it in detail afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u137	Thank you. Maxim Jephimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, you know, a lot of people today say, "lobby law," "law lobbies metallurgy." Others say, "The law is lobbyed by scrap processors." We really should. This must be the law of the lobbyist law for Ukraine, namely, that exports of non-renewable raw materials must be prohibited or restricted. on export. And I believe that this law needs to be clearly supported in order for there to be no manipulations with the scale of that charge, it must be adopted today as a basis and as a whole. I suggest we back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u139	Oleg Lakota, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u140	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The key to economic growth in the country is job creation. The Metallurgy Branch is working for 300,000 Ukrainian citizens, the more they produce metal, export abroad, use large-scale internal infrastructure projects, the higher their wages, the more families are provided. Unfortunately, today's metal decay deficit is nearly a million tons as a result of last year. This means that Ukrainian metallurgists lose jobs, lose wages. That's why the Radical Party MPs, along with colleagues from other factions, we're proposing to adopt a law that will set export duties on scrap of 35 euros per tonne. Today, 10 euros per tonne. This will allow you to stop barbaric exports to scrap metal, allow you to load domestic metallurgical enterprises with work, protect Ukrainian metallurgy's right to work, to pay, to see the prospect. Therefore, the Radical Party calls for the support of Ukrainian metallurgy as the backbone of the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u141	Please, Yuri Solovay, a minute and then the national MP Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u142	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to one more moment, because today it is. The absence of this law is a serious corruption component for the so-called export quotas that we understand how they get those or other enterprises that 25 years because they have access to the Ministry of Economics and certain officials, getting these export quotas, exported the last remnants of those big power factories that were in Ukraine in 25 years. Once and for all, Ukraine must decide to move from the raw economy to the economy that produces the final product. Because today we have a situation where 60, or sometimes 70 percent of the exports exported from Ukraine are raw materials, and instead just 20 to 30 percent is the final product. When some national MPs talk about the alleged restrictions on trade by the World Trade Organization or the European Union, I want to open your eyes and tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u143	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u144	There is no place for more restrictive things than today in its economic policy, which the European Union or the World Trade Organization has. For example, if you refuel your production in the European Union, 80 percent of you get a non-refundable grant. I call on everyone to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take our places to vote. National MP Bezbach, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u146	Thank you so much for being able to speak. I want to support you, my respectable colleagues, for your support for this bill is very much needed. I just want to say a few words. In the first half of 2015, our Ukrainian businesses lacked 600,000 tons of scrap metal at a time when about 800 tonnes of the same scrap metal was exported from Ukraine. So their producers are standing, their people are shrinking, they're not working, we're just going to waste. I'm asking you to support me, please. What they say is that quotas, I want to say that some countries, Indonesia, Argentina, Saudi Arabia, have protected their markets, are not exporting scrap metal from Ukraine at all. Today we support jobs for Turkey and Transnistria. There's a single factory, and there's a scrap metal bar on all sides! And I want to say the latest figures. From one ton of exported scrap, the budget receives only 10 Euros of duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u147	20 seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u148	And one ton of scrap metal is paid by about two and a half thousand bracelets, which is nine times as much! I am very grateful to the Radical Party for their support of the law. Please support me, please. And BP, yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u149	Wait! James, let us all thank that it is fair. Give me another 30 seconds. "Peter Dusty Block" you thanked. Now we have to thank the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u150	Indeed, for the sake of principle, I would like to thank the Radical Party, the WFP, the blocs and the parties that support it. Finally, we have touched today our national producer, the one who supplies goods!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, just as loudly, I would like to propose that everyone vote in favour of this law. I'm asking the deputies to take their seats in the hall. We're taking our seats in the hall. Sergey Capplin is only a minute away. Please. Come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u152	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. I'd like to say my position and my colleague Sugonako. We will definitely vote against this bill because it is shameful, cynical, absolutely animal service, really, Ukrainian metallurgy, but they have two names: Renat Ahemtov and Victor Pinchuk. Instead of buying a yacht, let them not buy football clubs, but finance, paying the normal price to the simple people who give them the metal. And only under such conditions will we support appropriate initiatives. I think the solution to problems in Ukrainian metallurgy is very simple: to take and return Ukrainian citizens. [[th m in s a l i]] What the oligarchs did. Nationalization is the only way to solve this crisis. And a bunch of ordinary people will come to power and take away what's being looted from the oligarchs and give to the common people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u153	Everyone calm down, dear fellows. Listen, I have a question. There are 300,000 Ukrainians working in the metal industry. 300,000 Ukrainians receive a salary. We should finally put a dot in that we're a raw adjective and what else. That sugar plant was cut out -- they took it out, the hatches in the cities broke up to make this metal scrape and take it abroad. We're moving out of the country with scrap metal, we're getting cars. You have to create an added value here, you have to create a national product here, you have to give people the opportunity to earn a normal resource. And this, I think, is the task of every national deputy in Ukraine. So I think it should unite us. You don't have to say something that doesn't answer, really, reality. Who's that? I think it's very important. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. Please, emergency. All of it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Signal. Signals in general. Okay. signal voting as a whole. Signal! Please make up your mind and vote. Signal. Vote, signal in general. There will be voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's a signal in general. [[13:31:53]] For-200 They didn't. It's a warning base. Here's the basics. Based on the base. On the basis of a signal vote. [[13:32:15.]] For 239. We're voting on the basis of draft law, registration number 3868. Vote. [[13:32:37]] For 245 Ladies and gentlemen, 245 is a law approved as a basis. And there's a proposal, by a reduced procedure, for his second reading. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Short for another. Vote. Short procedure for second reading. [[13:33:05]] For 213 I didn't get the necessary amount. The law was passed on the basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. I suggest that we move now to draft law (registration No.0929), to second reading. I'm asking all the national deputies to be in the hall. The issue lies in the law on the promotion of the prestige of mining work. And before that, I want to read the announcement now. According to these statements, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich and Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich into the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenka" party. Congratulations, fellows of honor! Thank you. Let's move on. 0929. Igor Nasalik. Second reading. I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats and support the miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your point is a comparative table for a transitional project, a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act on potassium-magnesian mine workers, registration No.0929. The committee considered this table twice, a year later, and yesterday. Because the moment of his consideration by Parliament was a very great time and there was a need to update and clarify some of its positions. In particular, amendments were considered, one of which relates to terms. The January 1, 2016 term is not relevant, so we change it to January 1, 2017. And we've got 44 people here who are miners of osocarytic mines, only 44 of them. Friends, the bill is very simple and small. However, it depends on the proportion of people who have worked for decades on mines from the mining of potassium magnesium ore and osokerite. That is, underground jobs with particularly harmful working conditions. The category of pensioners proposed to extend the position of the Ukrainian Mining Act is very small, it is composed of only 400 people. So this is about a very modest increase in spending from the state budget. And justice in this life will become much more. Injustice breeds hatred. And I wished that hatred in our society would not be as much as it is today. The bill was supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Security and supported the committee, supported the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. All colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u155	Colleagues, you have a table for your second reading. I propose that we now adopt the draft law as a whole as a result of the second reading. Please, Your Honor, 0929 is a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. Please, colleagues, there is an offer in the second reading and in general. But I have a request. We cannot break this law. I would ask everyone now to vote in favour of this law. Ready? Well, let's give the signal 0929 in the second reading and in general. Everyone, please support the miners. Come on, let's vote it off. Please support everyone. Vote. [[13:37:08]] For 247 Yes, it is. Please, in the second reading and in general. Please. With technical law, please vote. Vote. Please support everyone. 0929. Vote. [[13:37:29]] For 256 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. The next draft law is equally important in the second reading of the Bill on Promoting the Creation and Activity of Family Farmers (1599). Vadim Ivchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that we have three types of agriculture in Ukraine. They're one-person farmers, four-and-a-half million of them, but they don't have the status of a farmer. These are farms that are medium-sized, small, as well as agricultural enterprises that are directly involved in both vegetation and animal production, as well as primary processing of agricultural products. Large are also holdings of integrated, vertically integrated enterprises. Colleagues, this law, it helps today to introduce into the organized market the sale of agricultural products those one-man farms that, during the transformation period, have shown that they can produce not only for their own consumption, but they can produce products that are already commercially traded in the organic market for agricultural products. Another motivational mechanism. We are legally establishing the status of an agricultural producer, allowing the central executive authorities to adopt a programme to support and encourage such farms. We have to give them the right to engage in loans, to engage in donor funds. Dear colleagues, this law is very important because it changes the whole theory of the agrarian system of the country. We are the most powerful single-scale farmers in the organized market. None of you asked when you bought food on the shelves of our stores, but how did they get there when 50 percent of this product was produced in households. Colleagues, our exports show that the 11.1 billion we're getting in exchange, we're getting from large integrated holding companies or grain traders and 200 of them, colleagues. And Poland, smaller than its size, gets 18 billion from 1 million 600 family farms. Let us develop this very field today. Colleagues, your consideration is proposed for a second reading, for a second rereading of the law. 69 proposals were submitted to the bill: 40 amendments were taken into account by the committee and 29 amendments were rejected by the committee. And I wanted to thank the committee separately, and the individual deputies: Kutov, Bakumenko, Deputy Davidenko, and the non-factional MP from Liberty Levchenk, who were actively involved in the creation of such a powerful bill. Also, our colleagues in USAID, Agroinvest, have been conducting round tables and clarifications on this bill for the past two years. And, of course, the author of this bill, John Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction. I'm asking you to accept the bill already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u157	Please, Vadim Yvchenko, 30 seconds and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u158	I ask, colleagues, to adopt this bill as a whole and to definitively establish family farms at the legislative level. I want to remind you when the farmers were coming together, and you've got posters hanging in the hall, and they've been reminding you of the screaming bills that agrarian complex needs today. There is support for the smallest but most numerous, most powerful – the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine. Colleagues, please accept this bill and we will continue to try to encourage the establishment of family farms by further legislative initiatives from Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u159	There is a proposal to adopt it in general, a draft law. Everybody backing up? Come on, this is important. 1599 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the creation and operation of family farms. There is an offer to accept in the second reading and in general the results of the committee’s preparation. Please, we're taking our seats. Let's support the farmers, that's important. By signal vote, we are now. Colleagues, everyone, all factions and groups, please support the farmers. Ready? Please have a 1599 signal vote in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:43:08]] For 251 In the second reading and in general, we vote. 1599, in general, in the second reading and in general, please support everyone. [[13:43:27]] For 262 The law's been passed. The same thing, meeting with farmers, we set the agenda together with Parliament's deputies and the committee of profiles, we worked on your decision to support the farms of the family. Let's move on. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two issues that require the inclusion in the agenda of 4288 of the Law on the Specificities of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs and 4210 of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase the responsibility of military personnel and some others. The language goes to include these issues in the agenda for making decisions. And, pay attention, colleagues. And after that, we can work on two decisions. I'll call them a little later. Dear colleagues! Two other decisions that also need to be included in the agenda. This is Decree 4247 — referring the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliament of the Assembly of the Council of Europe in part. World leaders and all members of the international community on the condemnation of violations of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people in part of the ban on the occupation power of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol Majlis and its recognition by the extremist organization. And the second decree (4060) — Maksim Efimov, Mikli Knyzacski’s committee — to mark the memorable dates and Jubilee for the liberation of Kramator and Slavian cities from the pro-Russian terrorists. Now these four I suggest you now consider putting in the agenda for making decisions. Can we vote on the agenda of these four issues and make decisions? I'd like all the respectable fellow members of the national MPs to take their seats, please. Please have two laws and two regulations for inclusion in the agenda for discussion and decision-making. Ready to vote? We're voting on my proposal, please. [[13:47:35]] For-191 Individually, please, colleagues, separate inclusion in the agenda and adoption of decision 4288, the draft Law on the Specialities of Procurement of Goods, Jobs and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs, National Deputy Ivanchuk. Ready? Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, decision-making. Vote. [[13:48:15.]] For-187 I didn't get the necessary amount. Draft Law on Strengthening the Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Others, National Deputy Crnowol Tetjana (4210). We vote for inclusion in the decision-making process. [[13:48:47]] For-179 None. Next, colleagues, two decrees. Attention! 4247, George Logwinsky, Hanna Hopko Committee, concerning Majlis and the freedom of the Crimean Tatar people. Please support 4,247 in Crimea for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please support everyone. [[13:49:28]] For 215 Yeah, yeah, we're in the middle of something. People aren't physically in the room. Let's do it again: 4247. Crimea. 4257, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Ready? Oh, no? Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Vote. [[13:50:20]] For 228 4060 — regarding the marking of memorable dates (the liberation of Kramatorsky and Slavian from pro-Russian terrorists). Entry into the agenda for decision-making. Vote. [[13:50:50]] For 228 Dear colleagues, I can put a signal now, both of you, and that determination as a whole, if you don't mind. But you can see that there aren't that many people physically in the room. Well, please, there's an offer, let's define by signal vote. Let's move on. 4247. Ah, George Logwinsky. Let's at least talk about them. Please 4,247 on short notice and 4,060 on short notice. Please vote. Consideration of two orders by summary procedure. Let's talk about them. [[13:52:02]] For-187 The decision has been made. Please, George Logwinsky. Report the verdict. Anna Hopko, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u160	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your attention is being drawn to a project called the International Organizations and the World Society, which we have been motivated by events in the temporarily occupied Crimea. The world has been talking about the terrible deterioration of human rights on the Ukrainian peninsula for the second year in a row. Recently, however, the occupying authorities yawned at the Mabelis, banning its activities in the peninsula. Under these circumstances, we cannot remain silent. So in the draft, we call on all world leaders and recognized social actors to put an end to this and make the necessary efforts to protect Crimean Tatars from discrimination and persecution by the Russian Federation. We also included in the text a requirement for the Russian Federation to stop immediately the policy of violating the human rights and freedoms of a citizen in Crimea as an integral part of Ukraine’s sovereign territory, including the rights of Crimea Tatars as the indigenous people of Ukraine. In addition, in the draft appeal, international co-operation also calls for all necessary steps to be taken to prevent the occupation of the Crimean Crimea, Kurulta and Majlis, selected in accordance with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Your Honor, to come to the Hall and also to support this Address and to use it in all of your contacts with international partners. I would like to thank those deputies who represent Crimea here, also those who are actively working in the various parliamentary assemblies of the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSCE and who actively stand up for this position, and I have no doubt that we will return Crimea to Ukraine, so I would like to vote. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously supported this Address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u161	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, two-in-pro, two-in-contrary? Please. Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u162	Thank you. I give the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u163	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u164	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would ask those who may still be outside the plenary room to come to us to vote. Russian invaders are increasing their repression in the occupied Crimea. And now they're on their way to the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the higher executive representative body of Crimean Tatars. Before there are 11 of our comrades in Crimea, including Artem Chigos, the deputy head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, Ali Asanov, Mustafa Degermenji, eight other compatriots. They are now conducting so - called courts to ban Majlis from the Crimean Tatar nation. It's not just 33 people members of Majlis, it's more than 250 local mosques, rural, urban, rural, and it's 22 regional mosques -- it's the whole structure of Crimean Tatar national self-government, it's about two and a half thousand people. They want to declare them extremists and condemn them. Dear National Deputies! The whole world has become a defense for the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. This was discussed during the speech by Mr. Mustafa Jemiliev, leader of the Crimean Tatar people at the Security Council, held by the UN Security Council on May 18, 2016. This was discussed after I spoke at the UN Human Rights Council on March 22, Geneva. I think now is the time to join the Ukrainian Parliament to defend the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, to protect the Crimean Tatar people, to protect all Ukrainian citizens who live in the temporarily occupied Crimea. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Andrew Lozov. Then George Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u166	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, colleagues, it's embarrassing when Rephat-boy comes along, and a lot of you are making noises, playing games and pretending to be deaf. It's a shame when you're in Mustafa-aga's room and you know how important this is. And it'll be a real shame if you don't bring it, Lord, the Council won't support it. Because, understand human, and our colleagues, and many Crimean Tatars, which at the time of the war, a full-scale war, proved that they were part of the Ukrainian people. And we all well see that in today’s world, truly strong political nations appear when patriotism unites people of different blood, different faiths, when we prove that Ukraine is different, but only and strong. When we prove that the shoulder-to-back is ready to fight for it. Then it will be a great shame if the Council does not take this decision. Crime was a national project of the modern - day Russian Empire. And the Crimean Tatar nation had a choice: to sell to the Moscals or to remain faithful to themselves and to remain faithful to the great Ukrainian people they are part of. I ask you to support this document, which will help in particular in the future to condemn the outright abuse of the Crimean Tatar Ukrainians who proved their patriotism. "Crime is Tatar! Ukraine. [[speak Crimean Tatar]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u167	Georgi Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u168	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I hope everyone can hear me very carefully right now. Maybe not everyone understands what's going on, so I'd like to explain. At present, there is a so - called trial in Crimea, in which all the people involved in the Majlis Crimean Tatar people — that is, the whole nation — are not exclusively the 33 members of Majlis, everyone who chooses begins to participate in the crime. So all of you here are also criminals according to the sentence. And our fellow national MPs, such as Rephat Chubarov, Mustafa Djemiliev, appear directly in the statement of the so-called Prijalsky. So the language goes either we're protecting ourselves now or tomorrow you're going to be behind bars just like we are. We have made it possible to defend ourselves, even though the Crimean Tatar people in Crimea today cannot protect any state institution, but we are working, we are protecting our state. That's why I'm asking your support, the support of the international community as the author of this decree, so that we can continue to be proud of those people who are now heroes, remain in the Crimea and fight for all who are present in our country. Thank you. I would like to remind you that Crimea was, is and will be Ukrainian! We've lost control. I'd like to ask, as they say in Israel, "Leshana abaa birušaliami!" Next year in Jerusalem!), then we should say, "(in this year, in Bahchisarai!) [[speak Crimean Tatar]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-31-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the 4247 draft. Meaning, I think everyone understands. I asked everyone to support this draft decision as a whole. People's deputies, please 4247, decree, vote on the basis and in general. If there are no physical votes now, we will vote at the evening session. Signal, 4247. Please be a member of parliament. Vote. Please, everyone, back up. [[14:02:15]] For 225 I see there is. I see, I see, I see. And so, let's make an emergency call, 4247. I can see everyone, come on in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, Alexandra Vladimirovn, personal voting ratings for you. The total vote is 4247. Signal vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[14:02:56]] For 232 And now we're voting in general. Vote. We're voting 4247 of the Order as a whole. Vote. We're voting in general. Please support everyone. [[14:03:15]] For 233 I'll rule you in. Thank you, Your Honor. Slovenian and Kramatorski are we considering? We're looking at Slovenian and Kramatorsky now, or at 4:00? I put to the vote the proposal to continue the consideration for 15 minutes and to consider Kramatorski and Slavyansk. Please, we need 226. I want to see if we have any voices. Please, we now vote in favour of the Slovenian and Kramatorski. [[14:04:00]] For 197 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will begin consideration of this decision at 4 p.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all for your work. At 4 p.m., we begin the evening meeting of the Supreme Council.
