ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I ask all deputies to take their seats. Before we get to work, let's welcome our birthday colleague, Natalia Katzer-Buchovska. Welcome to your birthday, dear colleague! Good luck, best of luck! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and prepare for registration. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting today, I'll say again, we have a question of finding a solution to the political crisis that has taken place in our country. Instead, I am convinced that a solution will be found. I said that, and now I'm confirming that we don't have months to find a way out of the political crisis that has occurred. We have, the bill went down, but we have to find a solution. I believe in the wisdom of political leaders in finding a solution that will allow us to get out of the situation that has arisen and that will be accepted by Ukrainian society. Instead, colleagues, we need to work and make important decisions for the country. And yesterday, most of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament testified to their willingness to work on the most important decisions. And in order for us to adopt the laws that society is looking forward to today. Especially today, colleagues, the last law to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the introduction of a visa-free regime. I want to say with full confidence inside, including on the basis of the visit that we had in common with Brussels, the European Union in meeting the two conditions defined today, this is the law that we are going to adopt today, and the NAM, which the government will create in the coming weeks, will grant the visa-free regime to Ukrainian citizens. I didn't hear any other warnings. So I'm convinced that our tasks are going to be done in a great way today. In addition, colleagues will be prepared today for the signature of the leaders of factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. The recommendations that we have made for the implementation of the agreement with the European Parliament together are our own product, which is based on a better European experience in the transformation of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'll also ask for your support. We have a question of today's confiscation. You know, one and a half billion dollars from the Yanukovich regime is under arrest today, but these funds are to serve the Ukrainian society and the citizens. Therefore, it is important to adopt a special law that will allow this to happen. So the order of the day is important today, there are questions of both social character and the sphere of defense. I expect that our various political fantasies will not prevent us from making the right decisions that are necessary for Ukrainian society. Everything else, of course, we need to look for a way out of the political crisis that has arisen on the numbered days. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. Please. [[10:06:02]] 347 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare, your honor, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak from the factions and play by the Ukrainian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please, Your Honor, please turn on the registration. We register for the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, 30 minutes. Please, Victor Vasilovich Bondar, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, we have to say that this coalition, this coalition, the authorities, unfortunately, today have led the country to the fact that we don't have a viable government, we don't have any economic agenda, there's no economic recovery program, there's no industry. We see that there is a hysteria in the hall today, who will be, in what new government who will be the Prime Minister, who will be the staff proposals to make. Sadly, only one thing is forgotten is that there is real life on the street, that people have real problems. You raise tariffs, even though you promised everyone you wouldn't do it before the election, you'd lower it. You indignant people, you promised to raise pensions, wages -- nothing's going on. You promised new jobs. Instead, new cuts are now expected in virtually all sectors of the economy of Ukraine. Millions of people will go to work and lose their jobs. We ask what your policy is leading to. What do you lead the country to, and what do you expect to receive from this country in a year? Where are you going to get out of this country? Some have already fled and live in Moscow and Rostov today, and where are you going? There's nowhere for you to go. You're going to get caught and just get shot at places for what you're doing today. You see, you have even adopted bills that are already able to solve some of the issues. A month ago they accepted the issue of vocational education, the date of funding to the entire sector, which now ran out of money. Not signed laws, no one's talking about it, no one's thinking about it. Not signed by the President, we need the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council, to sign, publish, let it take effect. They passed the Law on Compensation for Freight. This is about pensioners and pensioners who today do not have a penny to get from the village to the resort. No one's signing anything. People get off buses. Question: could we at least be able to put order here in Parliament, I'm not talking about government anymore, government interaction, the President and so on? So today we're asking the question that, the honourable coalition, stop. Sit down, make a deal with the President, with the Prime Minister how you work. There's a problem with the Kabmen that you've recruited 90 percent of the people who are qualified to be ministers, change them, don't take time. The country can't take any more of your economic experiments. We need to rebuild the country, restore the economy, industry, make powerful infrastructure objects, build roads, bridges, factories, then start to grow the economy, then there will be wages, then there will be pensions. And unfortunately, you're doing everything you can to get this country, and then you're going to run it for the election, and you're going to leave it alone with all the trouble that people can't get out of. This will be your responsibility. We are ready to take responsibility. You don't know how to run, you give us authority, and we'll put the country in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u3	Opposition Block, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The economic situation in the country continues to deteriorate. The country is certainly moving toward the poorest countries in the world. The destruction of the real sector of the economy, the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses and industry is undeniable evidence. Unemployment has reached unprecedented levels, with 23 percent among young people alone. Loss of jobs, devaluation of national currency and price increases have affected most Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, the government continues to raise municipal tariffs, calling it reforms. The opposition block calls for the immediate adoption of a budget change in part of the salary and pension index. An error in the Tax Code needs to be corrected to support farmers. We insist that we return to this plenary week to review laws that relate to raising social standards, wages and pensions. Again, we emphasize that the Supreme Council stands outside the implementation of the Minsk Treaties and their legislative consolidation. The situation in the South East has started to get worse, and this can happen for years if you don't implement the basic positions reached in the Minsk Accords, including the conclusion of the exchange of prisoners of war by the formula "all at all", including Nadia Savchenko's pilot. Equally important is the internal political stability in Ukraine. We urge politicians to stop distracting the situation. This is unacceptable when individual politicians suggest that diplomatic relations be developed for the purpose of pharaohs, and they point out to people who go to what church. This certainly will not lead to civil peace. In Brussels, we received a fairly clear signal that the country's political mess and disorder is a major obstacle to Ukraine's development. Deputies will still have to examine in depth the results of the Ukrainian week in the European Parliament, especially in the part devoted to the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council. But all issues that divide Ukrainian society must be separate. We must seek compromise and harmony for unity and development. If politicians are not capable, let the people choose others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u5	Martinjak Sergei, the "Will of the People" group. Moscalenko's passing on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Very meaningful and very useful and, above all, very timely was the trip of part of the national deputies to Brussels. But I'm sad about two things. First, I am sad that European parliamentarians have called the Ukrainian Parliament a factory of legal debris. And secondly, it's sad that those 52 recommendations that Mr. Cox gave us, the honourable Mr. Cox, we should have started our reforms first of all, and everyone, even the young people's MP, should have understood that, because it's like a letter for children in school. Unfortunately, in this room most deputies have never understood their role in this society. Let's look at this situation from the side. Ukraine is the Titanic, which today, when it comes to the iceberg, is going to the bottom. And when the Ukrainian people are on board this liner, tea spoons draw water to stay alive and sail to the shore, the captain and the old man of the ship, along with the entire crew, fight for the warm cabins on this liner. Dear colleagues, tell me, what difference does it make what cabin to sink in? I've been thinking for a long time about what I'm going to be speaking about today, and among the thousands of appeals in the last month that came to me from the citizens, I've found one that I want to read to you now, because it's a very respectable person who wrote all the years of independence, 25 years, works as a mayor, works as a mayor, today he's no longer mayor, the city of Slavotic. "What's going on right now is just not going to get in the way of common sense. Under the cover of reforms is the practically open looting of the Ukrainian people. The great help of our Western partners has provided and provides a minimum cost for each Ukrainian family to carry out reforms. Instead, a primitive, totally unfounded, anti-national increase in tariffs automatically leads to higher prices for all goods. We are witnessing a critical decline in real wages, job losses, and human despair. Huge contradictions have arisen in a Ukrainian society that is divided, not into rich, middle class, or poor, but into very rich, with a critical decline in the middle class and very poor. Democracy today is a tool for fraud, political lies, permissiveness, spiritual decay, and the possibility of manipulating society. The term itself is mercilessly exploited by various elites under wide reform. This is the situation that creates conditions for the great indignation, opposition, revolutionary and radical attitude of the people. Please ask all your colleagues to stop this mess, empty talk, and criminal inaction, to come out and offer it to society."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u7	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u8	"..all citizens of Ukraine have a real way out of this situation. I'll add it up. Before the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I'm ashamed to look at real heroes in the face. Not only did the state take away everything it could, but it practically brought about holy medical care. So the ATO heroes, the national MPs and those who serve on the front, can clearly realize that the state that behaves like this with the Chernobyls, if we don't radically change it, will treat you the same way. With respect, Volodymyr Udovicenko." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u10	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished colleagues! The People's Front faction claims that the political crisis must be overcome immediately. Citizens are tired of this political circus organized by irresponsible politicians, and the country has no time for these conflicts. Part of these politicians were initiators of the country's collapse scenario and the breakdown of the political situation, the creation of the political crisis in 2005, and this year they are also trying to do so, but the consequences are going to get worse. I want to make a separate announcement, not the People's Front faction has initiated today's negatives for the country of events. We behaved honestly, responsibly in the European Ukraine coalition. We are not ashamed to look into the eyes of our coalition partners for all our affairs. And as members of the coalition, we count and count on the honest conduct of our colleagues in the European Ukraine coalition. Not intrigue, not conspiracy, not slandering each other, not discrediting the democratic forces in the eyes of the citizens were supposed to be the basis for our activity. All we've heard in the last month is the robbery of the People's Front, the government and the Prime Minister. For two years, our faction stood as a monolith to allow the country to change at a time when others were decided by public humiliation, disgraceful conduct, and performing numerous talk shows. And here, finally, yesterday, we received our calls to the President and to our partners in the largest faction of Peter Poshenko's Block on a partnership dialogue in solving the political crisis. We welcome the President's initiative, his factions take responsibility for themselves and propose candidates for the Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that Arsenius Yatsenuk has publicly addressed the Peter Prashenka Block, openly to the President, to determine whether they support today's government or offer positions and alternatives. We see two ways out of an artificial political crisis. First. Restoring the European Ukraine coalition's activities to shape the government, supporting the government's action programme. By the way, she's already in public access and everyone can get to know her. And we're still working on implementing reforms. If this is not accepted, please introduce the new Prime Minister, the entire government, the government’s programme of action and the 226 votes that will support the program. Because it's a shame that in the 15th year we were able to support only 40 percent of government initiatives in this Parliament. There's a third way, that's a temporary election. But their conduct is the collapse of our state. And we understand that this only plays on the aggressor country's hand. In view of this, the People's Front faction, proposing to support a valid government, is also ready to consider concrete proposals for the formation of a new coalition, a new government action programme, and a new prime minister and ministers. The People's Front is ready to engage in negotiations with the creation of a new coalition, discuss proposals for a new government and support the actions of the pro-European parliamentary majority. Pri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u11	Please finish. 30 seconds, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u12	Unresponsibly, our colleagues from the Fatherland and Self-Help factions do not assume responsibility and refuse to return or be held accountable for the European Ukraine coalition or the new coalition and take responsibility for the situation in the country. Therefore, we find it unacceptable to open a deadlock, namely to impose the resignation of an active government in order to create a vacuum of executive power that will be filled with random people. The resignation of the previous government can take place only with the immediate appointment of the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u13	Another 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u14	Let us not forget our responsibilities. Today we have to vote on a special confiscation bill that was stolen from the state by the Yanukovich gang. Today, you have heard the speeches of some deputies telling you that someone will be shot. So today, by voting for Law 4057, you will show your attitude toward the regime, as you voted in 2014 on January 16 for the laws, after which the bloodshed began. Still, you can atone for your sin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, come on, the rules. All right, let's finish the speech. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, Radical Party. And let's just calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues! You're all telling our country we're in a crisis. You don't know what a crisis is. If you want to see what a crisis is, go to the Ukrainian village and see how the villagers live, how they sell milk, how they feed their families. If you want to see what a crisis is, go to Ukrainian cities and ask how the pensioners live, how the budgeters live. The crisis is in your head. And in people as a result of your crisis, there's a real crisis in their pockets. And since April 1, 53 percent of the cost of gas for residential services has been raised! The price of thousands of cubic metres of gas will cost more than 10,000 dollars! This is a crisis! Because millions of people are unable to pay for this gas. And since March 1, electricity prices have been raised by 35 percent. And people who cook food today, especially my mom cooks food on electric plates, she asks me, so what, I don't have to cook now? Because that gold electroplate is now! This is a crisis, distinguished national MPs. And what you did and turned the country, it's not a crisis, it's a mess. It's a crisis of irresponsibility, it's a crisis of genres, it's a crisis because you put your own selfish interests first. The Radical Party offers ways to overcome this crisis. It can't go on like this. We must immediately form a new coalition, a new government and, above all, a new government action programme. Because when we're offered a candidate for ministers along with "cats in a bag" by ministers and without a program of action, when it turns out that the program of action will eventually be and it's secret, somewhere it is, everyone sees your program of action in their pocket! People eat nothing! And you haven't been able to solve the problems of government formation and programming for months. I demand that you be held accountable as a political class that has entrusted people with their destiny! Step on your ambitions! Too high a salary is paid by Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian State for yours, respected colleagues, irresponsibility, immorality, cynicism, and deceit. Stop taking care of yourself, and let's think about the people that make each of you sit here. They didn't choose you to cause them crises every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u17	Please, Your Honor, we have three speeches left: "Fatherland", "self-help" and "Peter Prashenko's Block." Which one of you first? You're not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Lucenko, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u18	Dear national deputies, distinguished listeners! The problem of the Ukrainian crisis is not a personal problem. The thesis imposed by previous speakers, telling them that someone besides them seems to be creating crises, seems to have some kind of arrangement, so to speak, that it does not correspond to reality. The Ukrainian government crisis is a question of the absence of reforms that are replaced by pyarism and agreements with oligarchs. That's why Peter Prashenko's Block, like other factions, assessed the government's unsatisfying results. Once again, we have no personal opposition with Prime Minister Yatzenuk or with any of the ministers, we have objective data that shows that reforms are being halted or stopped completely in key directions. BPP requires that immediately within months what has not been done throughout the year be done, namely, depoliticized and delligarchized the management of the largest state monopoly, where another state budget is being stolen. The year was not done. And over the last three weeks, until Parliament worked, they didn't move their fingers in that direction. We're demanding reform of the State Fiscal Service, customs clearance from personnel robbing Ukrainian businesses. But the year does not change, and in three weeks nothing has changed. We demand the completion of tax reform and the cessation of manipulation by the faction’s businesses, which has just been spilled here, that everyone here should be shot. But nothing has been done for a year and nothing has been done now! We demand funding from international financial institutions to key investment projects in Ukraine, $2 billion in the country remains unused because the government has not done or is not doing so. The list can be continued. But the fact is that the government is not coping with these key tasks of healing the country. A chance to implement a new policy could be given by a technocrat government created without party trade, without oligarchs. But this idea supported by a society supported by responsible politicians supported by Western partners was actually buried yesterday by a self-help claim that it would not join any new coalition under any new government. I think that after Sadov refused to be Prime Minister, after refusing to join the faction, any new coalition should be changed to "hello, rabbit, third year."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u19	Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u20	We are now being offered the Prime Minister's office, Self-Help is being offered to return to the coalition. Self-help in this regard thinks the following. First, both the President of Ukraine and coalition partners, unfortunately, have deceived all of us over the past year and a half. It's a common practice: to offer something through the press service, and then make arrangements at night and do things differently. So before considering any self-help proposals, we'll all have to make the following simple decisions. Decision number one. The appointment of an independent Attorney General, who will be neither a friend of the President nor a friend of Parliament nor a friend of anyone but the Attorney General of Ukraine. Decision number two. The appointment of a real Central Electoral Commission that will count votes, not serve as it has done since Viktor Yanukovich. And decision number three. The approval of what we promised all voters, the new just Law on Elections, for which the electorate can choose both the political party and the specific candidate in it for the so-called open party list system. What do we see in all these dances around the Prime Minister's office? The desire to dance until autumn, for each day they are held in these positions brings concrete bribes, concrete profits to the leaders of the state, and then to go shopping for this money in the districts. So once we see the will to break the oligarchic rules, starting with the work of the Attorney General and ending with the new electoral legislation, we will be happy to consider all other proposals, including the leadership of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u21	Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, yesterday at 7:30 a.m., there was a meeting of factions leaders with the President, the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of the country. In fact, no one in this circle had any doubt that the crisis had reached its climax in the country and that it needed to be found a way out. For three weeks, Parliament was found to have been released on its own bread solely to close the issue of resigning the government with a three-week break, calm society, politics, and pretend that nothing was happening. Over the three weeks, however, the cost of electricity rose by 25 percent. Since April 1, in these three weeks, 53 percent have decided to raise the cost of gas for the least-secured population, for social gas, and for 80 percent of the cost of heating. During these three weeks, the Prime Minister announced the privatization of a million hectares of agricultural land. Over the past three weeks, the Holding Fund has decided to sell 40-60 percent of state-owned objects, including monopolies, with a discount. Over the past three weeks, the country has seen a transcript, not a transcript, but an electronic correspondence between the NAC Naftogazu leadership and the Crushing, where the whole country has heard that there are trades on how to launder money for NAC Naftogazu and Crushing. Have you heard one statement from the power structures on this subject? And that's how the country lives. Either we get out of this shithole or we don't. Now, you know, strikes an agrarian complex, farmers. Now they're coming together, and they're making decisions about how to live, because they took the last one for their lives. You think there's a package of bills today that improves farmers' lives and gives them back a normal tax system? No, because no one needs it. And so I want you to look at people's control, Dmitri Dobrodomov and the team all over the country are collecting signatures for Yatsenuk's resignation, because 90 percent of the people today want this resignation. With these boxes you can set up the entire Supreme Council Hall today. The whole country is demanding the resignation of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Finally, put this order to the vote. And let the one who does not vote take responsibility for all that is to be done. And this is all happening in the context of the prisoners who are being tortured today at the expense of the Kremlin: Nadia, the Suns, the others. 28 people lay down their lives, shed blood, on the fronts of tens of thousands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u23	30 seconds, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u24	Tens of thousands of our heroes are giving their lives. And in their lives, on their sacrifices today, government is building mega-corruption at the highest level of state! Stop! I'm asking you to stop! And I also invite all the deputies in the 21st-22nd to read Nadia Savchenko's sentence. I'm asking you to create a joint team between all the factions and go there to support it and in its face to support the struggle for a real Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen! — Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the calendar of our work was approved on January 28th, where it was scheduled. The Ukrainian week in Brussels that we worked with you, one in two weeks, and one week on the committees. Committee questions. We agreed on an agreement at the Conciliation Council yesterday, I gave an order to the Apparatus, and we're going to publish the data that the committees are working on, as the Ukrainian National Deputies are visiting them, so that this information is absolutely known to everyone. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, we have a few minutes left. Valérie Lunchenko, please, three minutes from the Carpathian deputies. Colleagues, what's the question? Now. Yesterday, we posted a draft bill on the Ukrainian Supreme Council's website with Presidential proposals for electronic declaration. This is the last law we have to pass, and the Ukrainians will get visa-free treatment. This law was passed at nine o'clock this morning at an extra committee meeting, and the committee unanimously approved it. That's where the president sent him. This law was posted on the site yesterday. Now it's going to be distributed paper, it's in electronic form, and we're going to go over this more important issue. I'm asking all the MPs, I'm asking all the faction leaders to invite their deputies to consider this very issue. Please, everyone, prepare yourselves, Your Honor. Valery Lunchenko, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'd like to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u27	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I would like to urge you to observe today's moment of silence for the anniversary of the soldiers of Carpathian Ukraine, who just 77 years ago laid down their lives, choosing our country's independence. Each of you must remember that those boys from all over Ukraine, from Sumstina, Ivano-Frankish, from Lviv, Ukrapatia, at the foot of the city of Husta, shed their blood for the future of our country, as our soldiers are today, fighting in the ATO zone, I am convinced that they are all fighting for the future of our country. And if they could see and hear what kind of trouble we're having today, we could say we're trading our territories, we're losing the sovereignty of our state, they wouldn't be proud of it. I want us all to be united, I want all of us to remember that those soldiers and 77 years ago were fighting for a real, independent, European Ukraine. Let us take a moment to consider the silence of our soldiers who laid down their lives. And today we have the honor of being in the same room with the granddaughter of Klimpush, Joanna Klimpush. This is the granddaughter then. Dmitry Klimpus the commander of the Carpathian urine. We have honor and respect and respect for our warriors!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u29	Dear fellow national MPs, I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, there is another brief message that is symbolic. Because, actually, last night, yesterday afternoon, it was two years since the creation of the first volunteer battalion of the National Guard. The boys went straight from Midan to the columns in New Petrovac, and then they went to the front, continuing the tradition of volunteering: Sic Sagittarius and Carpathian Ukraine. We've got MPs from the battalion of the Kulczytsky National Guard. Let's welcome them on this anniversary, our soldiers are heirs to the volunteer movement. Congratulations, brothers! Congratulations, heroes! At Maidan and at the ATO, we stopped Putin. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to registration number 3755: the draft law that the President has proposed on electronic declaration. I would like to emphasize once again, dear colleagues: this is the last law in the visa-free package. We're going to endorse it, and all the legislative issues will be resolved. So this is an extremely responsible position. He was duly introduced by the President of Ukraine, examined by the committee. There is a special procedure for dealing with this issue. I'm asking everyone to focus. Please report to Stepan Ivanovich Kubov, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council. And the co-report of the head of the Yegor Sobolev Committee. Please. Authorized to report to Alexander Daniluk, deputy head of the President's Administration, as a reporter to the President of Ukraine. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Supreme Council Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (since 16 February 2016) on the characteristics of making declarations on property, income, expenditure and financial obligations by officials in the 16th year cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in the light of the following. The law that came to be signed is aimed at the introduction in 2016 of a system of submission and publication in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act of a declaration of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government. By ratifying the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Society, on the other hand, Ukraine has committed itself to the fight against corruption, which is recognized as one of the main principles for strengthening relations between Ukraine and the European Union. Then, the issue of the establishment of a system of submission and publication in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act of the Declarations of Persons authorised to perform functions of the State or local self-government is extremely relevant. At the same time, the proposed law on how to deal with this issue is not sufficiently balanced and needs correction. In particular, the thresholds for the declaration of property were raised, amendments were made to the Criminal Code, which delayed the use of criminal penalties for deliberately false information in the declaration, until 2017. At the same time, the crime was brought to justice under the jurisdiction of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. In doing so, the systemic issue of the composition of crime and the adequacy of punishment was never addressed. Taking into account the above, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the above law with his motivated and formulated proposals to the Act. The proposals were previously examined by the European Commission experts, and an official letter came to the address of the President of Ukraine, this letter, signed by European Commissioners Johannes Khan and Dimitris Avramopoulos, assessing positively the essence of the President's proposals for this law and insisting on the need for the adoption of this law without an amendment. I don't want any changes. In addition, the law received a positive public assessment. In particular, there is a statement of the RPR, in which too, there is a statement. This statement also states full support for the President's proposals. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. This will allow us to launch an electronic declaration system already this year, an important element of the systematic fight against corruption, and to meet our international obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, three minutes to question the answers. If you have any, please sign in. The procedure is predictable. Please, National Deputy Lensky. Kirichenko, Oleg Lazko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u35	Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u36	Oh, well, that's not a performance, that's a question, I'm sorry. Oh, yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I don't have any questions. The Radical Party faction will vote and support this bill. But at the same time, I would like to speak to the representative of the President, the head of Parliament, and the colleagues of the national MPs. I'm surprised to hear a representative of the President telling us that the European Commissioners insist that we adopt this law without any notice. We have great respect for the European Commissioners. But I would like to remind the representative of the President's Administration, the leadership of Parliament, if you suddenly forget: Ukraine is a sovereign independent state, and this is the Ukrainian Parliament. And when you turn MPs into buttons, that we, you see, we don't have the right to discuss, we don't have the right to change anything, we don't have the right to make suggestions! You're not humiliating me or even the Ukrainian Parliament, you're humiliating the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. We must, distinguished seniors, in any international negotiations, first stand up for the national interests of Ukraine. Ukraine's national interest is fighting corruption. Ukraine’s national interest is respect for the sovereignty of our nation. Ukraine’s national interest is that when you sign agreements, they should be beneficial to our country. Let's take an example. Free Trade Agreement. How much we've talked about this deal. And what do we see? The quotas for agricultural products set up by this agreement are demeaning, they are meager. 4,000 tons of oats per year, 20,000 tons of sugar per year, 15,000 tons of chicken per year, which we have the right to place in the European Union without a moment. While European Union producers can supply without restrictions! Show me where Ukraine's interest in this? Where is the interest of our manufacturers? That's why we insist on laying things down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Well, there wasn't a question here, so there was a better performance. Please, Your Honor, time is up. The presentation was made. All that's left is a radical party. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Egor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u39	Our committee met urgently this morning to consider the President’s proposals. We welcome the President's veto to the previous law and urge Parliament not to vote for him. As for the Presidential proposals, it is precisely a good idea to introduce the openness of declarations this year, for which we have spoken unanimously and speak. What we've asked the President's representative to change is two ideas from the President, one of which actually introduces an opportunity for officials not to tell the value of expensive paintings, valuables. And we think it's a step backwards compared to active legislation. And the president’s second idea, which sparked debate on the committee, was to enter into the Criminal Code the possibility for a judge to punish a person who had lied in a declaration not only by imprisonment but also by a fine of about 40,000 dollars. We're afraid that in our circumstances, maximum fines are going to be a real practice of punishment. However, after much discussion with civil society activists, with journalists who follow the declarations, with colleagues in Parliament and with a representative of the President, the committee unanimously recommends that Parliament approve the President's proposals. In conditions that have arisen, transparency without punishment is better than punishment without transparency. And we propose to the Supreme Council to pass this law and move on to the openness of all the decrees of all officials. And I want to add to myself that I've collected all the documents to fill out the declarations in a new way because of the so-called electronic declaration system, there's nothing complicated or scary about it, it's taken place in the south. And in my opinion, the fears that need to be mentioned that the great-grandfather brought from war are completely premeditated. Declarations require officials to disclose their assets honestly from officials throughout the civilized world. Let's make this decision and start with ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a question for the co-reporter. Should we ask questions? Please, Yegor Sobolev. Three minutes to ask, please sign in, Your Honor. And I ask all my colleagues to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and invite all the national deputies. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u41	Well, I have questions and a lineup at the same time. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Regrettably, neither of the reporters said the main thing. The point is, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this year everyone will have to make two declarations. If anyone has an illusion that he shouldn't make two declarations, read the bill that we vote for. And so I would like to point out that the criminal code, which is now being defined, has been effective since January 1, 2016. And we're all going to be responsible for the criminal record of the paper declaration first, to be filed by April 1, 2016, and then for the declaration to be made after the system works. Read what the bill says. So, unfortunately, friends are not tied up, even though they had to be tied up. Because we have a criminal responsibility, right from the start, which was linked to an electronic declaration. And if this is not done now, serious manipulation will begin, people will be drawn back to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u42	Thank you. That is why we are adopting a law that will avoid all these inadequacies. Please, Your Honor, Victor Chumak. Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Chumuk Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that in this bill, it is much, of course, better than the Dennisenka bill when it was voted by a majority, who in general levelled all legislation against corruption. But what I'd like to say is, in my opinion, this bill is very dangerous. There is double jurisdiction for the same offence. That is, untrustworthy information in the declaration is responsible for both administrative and criminal responsibility. And that depends on the amount not declared by the clerk or by another declarant. If it's between 100 and 250 minimum wages, there's administrative responsibility, above 250 minimum wages, insecure information -- criminal responsibility comes. You realize that here we're doing a very serious precedent, giving back double jurisdiction, there can be simply-just very serious corruption risks. When.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u44	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u45	Let me finish. When a court judge or investigator decides to accept the responsibility of attracting an unscrupulous declarant, there are problems and risks. But in general, I want to say that we should vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u46	Please finish, Victor Vasilovich, 10 seconds. Knock it off, ten seconds. Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u47	In general, I want to say that we need to vote in favour of this bill, because it is a minimally possible compromise that today is possible to achieve in this room a political one. So let's press the green button.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Borislav Bereza, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u49	Yegor Viktorovich, good afternoon! This morning we had a very hot argument when we adopted a resolution on this bill. And I agree with Mr. Chumak that this bill is better than Dennisenk's before, but it has a lot of questions. I have these two questions. Say, you understand that here, I quote, the full verification of the declaration is to establish the authenticity of the declared information, the accuracy of the valuation of the declared assets. Who's going to do this evaluation first? It's not known, it's not prescribed. And secondly, I want to say that if we accept this bill, we have no other way out, you understand. If we accept it, we will get what we want from Europe — a visa-free entry. And that's what you want, and that's what I want. But this bill has to be finalized, do you understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u51	I want to say that it's absolutely right that this law provides for openness, but there are no mechanisms for accountability. The law enforcement agency should be responsible for verifying the accuracy of information on corruption prevention designed in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this agency has been unable to create the government of Arsenius Yatzenuk for over a year and a half, and there is a great struggle to fill it with dependent people. This is what we and the public are up against. Right now, yesterday, literally by night, there was another competition committee that was looking for strong candidates. And unfortunately, the struggle between the desire to have pocket people and really the people who are going to check the declarations has continued. As a committee, we will ensure that neither the government nor anyone else is able to form this agency by pocket money, and it will verify declarations for the benefit of all, not just the principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u52	Dear fellow national MPs, please take your seats. In fact, an extremely important vote is about to take place, which will make it possible to introduce a visa-free regime with the European Union for Ukrainian citizens. Today, the fight for Ukraine was mentioned, mentioning our volunteers who went to fight with the enemy to the eastern border directly from Maidan. And if we all remember where the Dignity Revolution started, it was when the authorities had decided not to integrate into the European Union and actually stopped any process of European integration. Then people got up and said no, that's not gonna happen. Now that the Association Agreement has been signed, attention, colleagues, when many steps have been taken to return to the European family, a single step has been left for the Ukrainian Parliament. Voting each of you will allow you to take this step. This step will allow the iron curtain to be lifted and the European Union will actually introduce a visa-free regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Ukrainian society needs your attention today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs, today society needs your attention! Colleagues! I want to see you again. We are now discussing with you the issue of driving a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. I realize that many have a great deal to do. But I think we've been chosen to focus on what's important and take real steps to make decisions. So I would very much like to support this decision today, to pass this law, because each of you has a personal responsibility for these steps. I don't think there's going to be an apology if anyone says I'm wrong or I haven't been able to make the vote, and there won't be a signal vote either. So I would very much like to take my seats right now and prepare for the vote. The vote will be as follows: to accept in general, taking into account all the proposals of the President of Ukraine, a draft law that is fully in line with our European partners. Ready? Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 3755, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, 226 votes. Ready? We vote, and I ask everyone to support this bill. Colleagues, we vote, everyone, please. We vote in general, taking into account all the President's proposals. Colleagues, we vote, please support everyone, we vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:05:34]] For 278 278, respectable colleagues. We passed this law and took a step. Now, perhaps it is entirely objective that we have finally adopted all the decisions necessary by Parliament to introduce a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. Peter Poshenko's Block – 113 votes, People's Front – 72, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Oleg Ljashka's Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 14, Rebirth Party – 0, "Will of the People" – 13 and 27 – Ukraine's non-fractional national MPs. Thank you, dear colleagues, and I wish us success in our conduct. Now there's a step behind the government -- the introduction of the NAMK issue -- the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Dear colleagues, you and I have prepared a verdict. You and I have prepared a verdict. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have prepared a regulation on the implementation of 52 recommendations from the Ukrainian Parliament, which we worked together with the European Parliament in a technical mission after the introduction of the Ukrainian week. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this decree is prepared and signed by all the leaders of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the corresponding draft decree was signed by the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament and groups, namely: Julia Timoshenko, Maxim Bourbak, Yuri Lucenko, Oleg Ljasko, Jaroslav Moskalenko, Viktor Bondar and Yuri Anatoliyovich Boyko, Oleg Berezuk (I said). It's being framed by Vice Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Oksana Siroid. It has the title, "On the steps taken to implement the internal reform recommendations and improve the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" (4219 registration number). We can discuss it now, or we can adopt it. In fact, we dedicated the Ukrainian week to 52 recommendations of Cox, the Cox mission. There is a proposal to vote and approve these 52 recommendations. We had a broad discussion in the European Union. Then, honourable colleagues, there is a suggestion to include in the order the day-to-day draft of the decision-making decision. Attention, colleagues! 52 recommendations that we have worked together with the European Parliament. This will be the basis, and we will work together with the European Parliament to implement the decision. I'd like you to put it in the day-to-day order. Suggestion: To include a decision in the agenda. Please, colleagues, get into the agenda for making a decision. Vote. [[11:09:46]] For 256 [[B in m in s a l in]] But they've been reading it for weeks if you haven't read it. You can even read on the Supreme Council website. Ladies and gentlemen, we have included in the decision-making process the day-to-day decision-making process. I think we'll go back to looking at it after a certain period of time. Okay? Okay? Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on in the daytime. Dear fellow members of the national MPs, we have a number of issues that we have to consider with you for inclusion in the agenda and for the adoption of two draft laws. One in 4057 is the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code (as regards the particulars of recourse to the State's income of money, values and income from it before the court's verdict). And the second question is 3196: the draft Act on the introduction of conspiracies to certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the irreparability of punishing persons who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). I know there are many reflections on the subject of these laws, but yesterday we did. A. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's a matter of inclusion, it's a matter of getting into the agenda for making decisions. There'll be a resolution. So I think it would be useful, colleagues, to put a dot on this issue, now to consider these issues. Perhaps they could be adopted on a basis, sent to prepare for the second reading, and in the committees to work hard to prepare these decisions, respected colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then we'll do it this way now. We're putting these two laws into the agenda for the decision-making process, into the agenda. And we're going to continue, and we're going to look at the D.B.I. ruling, and now we're going to look at these decisions that are included in the agenda. There's the position of a faction of colleagues so that we can act that way. I think it's very important to us. Are we ready to vote in order of the day and to take decisions 4057 and 3196, or should we give the word? Is it necessary to give a word? Okay. Dear colleagues, the offer is to include 4057 and 3196 in the agenda. Please take your seats. Are you ready to vote in the agenda and consider making a decision? And then we'll start discussing these issues. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. This is question 4057 and 3196. There's an agreement that we're only going to consider them as a basis. But as a result, we will make decisions. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this proposal. Ready? Please be included in the agenda for decision-making. Vote please, colleagues. Everybody ready? It's just the inclusion in the agenda and then the consideration that will allow the decision to be made. This is not a consideration of the matter. Please invite me. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote. Please support all members of the national MPs. It's just getting into the agenda. We'll continue to look at it. Vote. [[11:17:14]] For 177 Dear colleagues, pay attention! Look, listen carefully. Listen carefully, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, one minute, one minute. One minute! Wait! Now we're going to vote again, where are you going? Calm down. Colleagues, once again, it's a day-to-day inclusion. Colleagues, I propose to mobilize the efforts of all factions now, to accept. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize for it now. Dear colleagues, I have an offer next, a minute. Let's re-mobilize and vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Still, colleagues, we exchange thoughts during our consideration of the matter. I think we're going to find a solution to adopt them as a basis, to send them to the committee and to work on the committee in such a way that they're good quality laws. Otherwise, there will be no votes for them in this room. Let me put this proposal to the vote again. Do you understand this approach, colleagues? Is that it? Put it in order of the day. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Please. Please comment, Yuri Lucenko. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm addressing the deputies and the faction of Peter Prashenko, and the other MPs on this bill. First. The law is clearly needed socially, for the income from it goes to rearming the army. Thesis two. The law is highly questionable because it is proposed that the assets of persons who do not have sufficient evidence in court to prove the guilt and the case is closed, or that the law has become effective, by which the abolition of criminal responsibility for acts committed by a person, and other very absurd decisions. How can property be taken away from those who are not proved guilty? However, the bill must now be placed in the agenda and sent to the committee of profile to translate the discussion from political slogans into legal professional discussion. Please put such a proposal to the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Pashinsky. But let's put it this way: I think it's a normal and constructive proposal: to put it into the agenda for decision-making and to work it out on the committee. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u55	You know, on January 16, 2014, we blocked Spiker Rybak so he wouldn't order the day-to-day dictatorial laws or start a civil war. The kaletnik came out the window, and I managed to get through to him here. I personally told him that this was the beginning of a civil war, that he was personally responsible. They started a war. The being, the being who then voted with the hooves in the Party of Regions for dictatorial laws, today from this rostrum told us that someone was going to be shot? Dear friends, Yanukovic robbed the country, and unfortunately his affairs live. Two billion funds stolen from the people of Ukraine have been arrested. This law is an absolute piece of European law, including Italian law, which clearly prescribes the procedure of actual special confiscation. The kind we've accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u56	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u57	Made not only by our best experts but also by the 20 laws of the European countries that are in these countries. And what they're telling us is a complete lie, it's the agents, excuse me, who they're telling about some illegal judge's decisions. What are you doing there? This law will be passed, whether you want it or not! And Janukovich's stolen money will be taken into the Ukrainian budget, where they were stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's vote on the law. We can do it now. How many, two minutes was it? Please, Oleg Lakota for two minutes, if you're starting, two minutes to go. Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now vote. And I urge everyone to vote. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to go to all my fellow deputies and ask you. Dear colleagues, and those who were in the "regions," and those who weren't, all who are sitting in this room. Remember, two years ago, when there was blood in Kiev. What was she spilling it for? Why did people give blood? Against Yanukovich's gang, against the Mafia, against corruption, against the country's robbery. Two years later, no one was attracted to Yanukovich’s crimes. Two years later, no money was returned to the government budget stolen by Yanukovich’s gang. I have a question for each of you. Dear colleagues, aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed of the people you promised to fight corruption, pay back the stolen funds, restore the economy, give European life? To those who do not vote, those who do not support these laws are obviously not simply ashamed, nor are they aware of their responsibility. Two billion dollars of money stolen by Yanukovic from Ukraine's budget is on accounts, and we can't get them back into the budget. He can steal from the budget, and we, it turns out, the democratic parliament, can't go back to the budget. We're obviously waiting for Yanukovich to return. Yeah? To give him back the money for a dish with a blue stick. Are we waiting for the ruling of the fairest Cave Court to pay Yanukovich’s funds as legally earned — $2 billion? Which one of you can make $2 billion? We have $200 a month a person can't make. We have an army, a social sphere, medicine, education to finance this money. The Radical Party faction calls for a vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please take our seats. I'd like to ask everyone the following thing: don't argue about this. It should not separate us all from you. We vote, we include in the agenda. Let us begin our consideration, exchange specific thoughts on this law. We're going to take it as a basis, we're going to go to the committee, we're going to look at the committee, we're going to make the law as necessary to meet all the standards. And so we're going to get out of this situation. Otherwise, we'll never get to the point. And what's more, you realize that the non-admission of this law is also convenient for some people who, for example, own this money or the assets of one and a half billion dollars. You do understand, don't you? Let's not be able to block this through Parliament. Colleagues, there is a proposal, please, for all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament: "Block of Petra Poshenko", "National Front", "Radical Party", "Batakščina", "Rebirth" group, "Will of the People", "self-help", "Opposition Block", non-fractional, to vote, to support the inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of this law. Then, when we consider it, we will determine what to do with it. Is such an offer accepted? Shall we vote? There was a call from the head of the Yuri Lucenka faction. for inclusion in the agenda. It's just getting into the agenda. Please come in, take your seats. Look, there's committee regulations that have come to this professionally, but we'll take it when we look at it. Now that we're in the agenda, we're not making a decision, we're adopting this law. Vote? There was a call by the faction manager to the faction, vote and support. I ask you to listen to the faction manager: getting into the agenda for making a decision. That's it! Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's move on. Lots of laws, colleagues. Please take your seats. Take your seats. Colleagues, there is no doubt that one and a half billion Yanukovitch should be taken for the benefit of the Ukrainian people? Is anyone in doubt? In what way, we will find the right solution on the committee. We vote for the inclusion in the agenda of these two laws: 4057 and 3196, inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Vote? Let's, let's include, colleagues, please support everyone. Vote. Then we will consider and make a decision. I'd like to propose a vote. Please vote. Vote, support, colleagues. Please, stand by. [[11:28:51]] For-183 Please, by the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'll call it a 12.30 break. I invite the factions and parliamentary groups to the third floor for consultations. Thank you, Your Honor. By 12:30 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u61	Dear fellow MPs, please enter the hall, the consultations are over. They were successful. As usual, compromise has been found. I'm asking you to come into the hall so that we can get right to the successful vote. Please, colleagues. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the faction secretariats to invite MPs into the hall. There aren't enough deputies in the room to make decisions. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Fellow MPs, I'd like you to come into the hall from the towers and take your jobs. Dear colleagues, we will begin our work in a minute. Please enter the hall, which is in the towers, to prepare for the continuation of our work. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u62	Please, I've got it. We're continuing our work, dear colleagues. A few announcements. Please have two factions, two groups: "Rebirth" and "Will of the People" -- signed by Victor Bondar and Jaroslav Moscalenko, to replace the break for a three-minute performance. Please, Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth, three-minute performance. Ladies and gentlemen, please join the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker! You know that in February we passed two very sharp and important laws with you. The first law is 4024, which returns the tax transportation, funding it by the state to the local budget. Another law applies to the financing of vocational schools. This is number 4024 and number 3830-3. Unfortunately, we still have no position, no veto, no signed laws. That's why we're asking the President of Ukraine and the Speaker to speed up the consideration of these laws. So that we could have a position and say something to people. Because the questions are very urgent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u64	Thank you. Please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. Please, Julia Timoshenko. The statement of two factions – Oleg Láška and Julia Timoshenko – for a break that was replaced by a performance. Please, Julia Timoshenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, today there is an unprecedented event near the Supreme Council. From all over the country, farmers moved from every corner of each area. These are thousands of farm managers. They came here because now, if you know, the soybeans have begun. And they don't have a penny to carry out this sower successfully to process the land. To provide Ukraine with the necessary food. The earth, a priceless Ukrainian land, is being cultivated by farmers today. But at the same time, all the difficulties, all the problems, all the violence that happens against farmers, it's not random. These people are simply driven off the earth, forcibly driven away, leaving this land free for monopolies, for those who use this land for profits without peasants. That is why they have come from all over Ukraine to draw attention, attention, to the hearts of the national deputies. And if we have hearts and the heart of Ukraine is a village, it's the agrarians that are working the land out of every last effort. So, to reach your hearts, they came to correct the mistake that was made at the end of the year when large agrarian monopolies were allowed to collect nearly 20 billion dollars from the budget, and farmers took the last copies because of the collapse of their tax system. And that's why they're asking MPs today to give them back at least what they had, these crumbs. Because we don't have subsidies, we don't have subsidies, we don't have government support for our farms. I thank the Head of the Supreme Council today, although he is not in the Presidium, for that. Yes, it is. For having given consent to accept the farmer’s delegation and for having given consent to consider all the issues they raise. And they raise a few questions. First. Return the current tax system to January 1, 16. Secondly, immediately adopt the Family Farms Act and open the Farm Support Strategy. Third. They require that we immediately develop and adopt the Law on the Only Tax on Earth, which will allow them to work and to have more taxes. Four. They require in no way to do what the Prime Minister announced and a million hectares of agricultural land to sell from the hammer. They suggest that we, as the Council, consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u66	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u67	Consider the Farm Development Strategy, as it is in every European country, in every civilized country that has agricultural land. I ask the MPs to take this as a top priority, this is half of Ukraine, and this is our welfare and our future. Please join us all in this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u68	Thank you. I was mentioned here. Do I have the right to a replica? I want to inform everyone, respected colleagues, who have always met and will meet people and farmers, including. And in the last few weeks, a month, he's had a lot of meetings with the public sector, with an expert environment. You know, there's something that people have to listen to and there's a reason to learn, so we always have to communicate. I'm going to meet farmers today, too, and I don't need thousands of people to meet me there, I mean, thousands. And you can do that in any normal way and you can just tell me that there's such a need, and we will definitely meet to talk about the problems that there are, and find some solutions from one situation or another, honourable colleagues. We voted a visa-free law with you. Given the committee's application, it was written about what and now I'm going to sound, there was a proposal with technical legal remedies. So I would like to take this into account when preparing a bill to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council to refer to the President's signature. Another application. According to the application, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Firsov Egor Pavlovich, from the MP's "Block of Petra Prashenko". Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We, I just held a meeting. with faction leaders. It's as if we've found a solution to take the laws on the return of Janukovich's assets right now into the agenda and consider their adoption as a basis. Next on the committee, we're going to work on this. But in this regard, I would suggest that now John Winnick, three minutes, will inform everyone about this law. Because there's a lot of legends about this law, but there's actually things that aren't prescribed there, and everybody thinks they're there. That's why John Winnick will inform. There will still be a performance, asked Yuri Lucenko once again to express his position. I think if anyone wants to step out of the faction leaders, please have that opportunity. Is there no objection? Please, 3 minutes, Ivan Vinnik. Attention, colleagues! Listen to this law, we need to approve this issue today, and we will move on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u69	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Indeed, we need to find out what is actually written in this legislative novel. First. Who can be the subject of this standard that is proposed for adoption? Only those who have committed corrupt crimes involving property possession have lost property (191 articles of the Criminal Code). Suspected of legalization of funds obtained by criminal means (art. 209), persons suspected of creating a criminal group (art. 255). What can become an object? Only money, money, can be the object. In no way are we talking about the property or the oil of Kurchenka, or even the houses of Monaco, which are trying to protect some. In what way will this be done, what kind of fuses exist? First. This applies only to the money that was set up during the pretrial investigation, its existence, but cannot be determined who actually owns it. So they're on the bill, the account belongs to an offshore company, this money is being arrested by a financier, but you can't even call the person responsible as a witness in order to question it and change the procedural status accordingly. That is, a person who is a suspect is advertised. And if it does not appear to the investigator, there is reason to apply the proposed legislative standards. If a person appears, such a standard cannot be applied accordingly, but a person has to prove from where he took the funds and prove that they were received in a legal way, that they correspond to those declarations, the incomes that a person had at a certain time. As for the prosecution and the general principle of the right to be justified and the proportionality of the application of law. Predicted court-martial system of charges. The decision on the application shall be taken by a court which may be sued in an appeal. So completely the right of a person who then, for example, shows up and declares "this is my money," he can sue in court. Next, with regard to European practice. Because there's a lot going on here that doesn't fit European law. I would like to quote that article 54, paragraph 1, of the 2003 UN Convention against Corruption called on the States parties to take the measures necessary to resolve the confiscation without the approval of a sentence in criminal proceedings in cases where criminal prosecution of a criminal is not possible. We have, if a person under the Criminal Procedure Code cannot be questioned as a witness, he can't even make a statement of suspicion in absentia. On September 17, 2007, a key asset-recovery initiative was launched by the President of the World Bank and the Secretary-General of the United Nations in response to the alarming extent of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u70	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u71	And the last. As for the European Court of Human Rights, you know, there's a lot of talk going on that any confiscation applied during the pretrial investigation will be prosecuted, and then these costs will be reimbursed to the person by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. On February 22, 1994, Raymondo v. Italy, the European Court of Justice ruled on Italy. When the Rymondo mobster's assets were confiscated from the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] You remember this movie: "Don't scream – what are you yelling at?".. What are you yelling at, you don't have to yell?Oh, my God! Please, Yuri Lucenko, come on. I'll give it to everyone during the discussion, you'll be speaking, no problem. Listen carefully, dear fellows, I ask you to take your seats, your fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u73	Honorable Colleagues, Law 4057. I want to take down the myths that are now in the hall about this law. First. The Law applies exclusively to money and values. It doesn't spread to property, to stock, to oil, to what other things they talk about in the towers. Only costs and values in the form of state-owned securities. One. The other one. Of course, the mistake of this bill is that turning to the government’s income can be if a person has been hiding for a long time and other reasons. Other reasons for the committee to discuss and I think it will come to the right conclusion, this paragraph 2 will be deleted on page 2 of paragraph 5. But the lie is also that something can be taken without judgment. All decisions will be made solely by the court. And most importantly, colleagues. As you can see, the discussion of this law. Yeah, and one more. It is not true that the European Court of Justice can use this law to win Janukovic's favour, for the accompanying note brings to this law a very large number of European Court precedents, by which such costs were eliminated, and the European Court of Justice ruled in force. That's why. That's the law. The bill is certainly not perfect, as is many others. But we need to stop the political rally on his behalf and transfer him to a committee of law enforcement agencies that will make him legally perfect. I call primarily to the MPs of WFP: please send this bill to a training committee that will make it the right, legally effective law that will not give any basis for human rights violations that unfortunately still have room here. Please vote now for this bill and start a professional job instead of a political rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to take their seats now. during the discussion. Take your seats, put it in the agenda for decision-making, and we start the discussion, everyone gets a chance to make a statement. Please, Your Honor, during the discussion, everyone will be given the opportunity to speak, no problem. Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now vote. Let's actually solve this problem, it's already accumulated for more than a month, not just one. Even more than six months, I guess. And we need to sort it out somehow. That's why. Integrating into the agenda we are already starting to discuss the subject matter of an article of the law, and then we will determine what to do with it. Please, Your Honor, please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, and we will continue to discuss it. But there is a clear decision that this can only be considered as a basis. Period. No other decision can be made today in order to correct the law so that it can be effective. Ready to vote? Please, everyone. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Please enter into the agenda for making a decision. Ready? Please, MPs, take your seats, dear colleagues. Let's vote on the agenda 4057 and the adoption of decision 4057, 3196. Please support inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, we all vote, we vote. Please support everyone. [[12:57:19]] For-200 People's deputies, 200. 85, 72. "Paternity." [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there was a very constructive offer to include it in the agenda. I would ask all fellow members of the national MPs to support this proposal. Let's start talking about this law -- let's define it by the articles. Dear colleagues! All right. All right. Colleagues. No, come back, you're going to vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready, colleagues? Get back to your seats. Dear colleagues, I think there will be voices now. Come on, take your seats. Come on, take your seats, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see again, colleagues, how many voices of different factions do we have? Okay, okay, People's Front, stay here. Colleagues, I ask you, an offer: to put the decision in order of the day and to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to see how many other factions there are. If necessary, the People's Front will come back and vote. I beg you, colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats, colleagues. Ready? In the agenda, in the agenda, and in the decision-making process. 4057 and 3196. We vote without the People's Front, but they get involved in the voting process. I ask you to support inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Vote? Ready? Vote, please support this proposal, enrollment in the agenda, colleagues, vote. We'll get the most votes, and then we'll see what the People's Front gives us. [[13:01:56]] For-162 Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going to need to hold consultations on the insistence of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Regrettably, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock, dear fellows, we will continue our work at the evening meeting. But I would ask all the faction leaders, first of all, to provide a percentage. We'll start with the laws of the special confiscation of Yanukovic. A hundred percent appearance, and work with fellow members of the national parliaments so that we can vote on the inclusion of these laws in the agenda and the adoption of their decisions. I will be grateful for your understanding, dear colleagues. Thank you.
