ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u1	Turn on the microphone for a minute. Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. I invite everyone to the rostrum of those who support it. I want to say that three years ago, this is where the struggle for Ukrainian parliamentaryism began, just three years ago, "vote yourself," the question of "vote yourself" became one that brought together opposition deputies here who began to fight for the lack of buttonage in this Parliament. A major problem today, when we vote in favour of the Constitution, that Parliament is once again breaking the Constitution, that Parliament is once again violating the Rules, which are re-emerging non-personal voting. I call on all parliamentarians, let's stop this shameful practice, let's stop showing the Ukrainian people that we can vote as bad pianists for ourselves and for another guy. I'd like to invite you. I want to remind Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, before he took office, he personally gave assurances that there would be no non-personal vote in parliament. I would like to ask you to guarantee this promise so that there is no nonpersonal vote. Dear friends, I want to talk to journalists and the public. I want you not to be left unattended.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u3	Finish up. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u4	no cases of non-personal voting. Let's be parliamentarians, not bad pianists, who push the wrong buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can only say that we will soon propose a system that will allow for effective decision-making as is the case in European parliaments. There will be a decision on political parties to support or support such proposals. This system. This is a matter to be settled. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall, and we can start our work. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please register. [[10:04:13]] 336 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council open this morning. Today's birthday, my honorary colleagues, is celebrated by our fellow national deputies, Valérie Babenko and Vitaly Kurilo. Let us greet them with birthdays, good things, success and well - being, well - being, well - being colleagues of honor. Today, in fact, we will conclude the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the morning. At the evening session, we will begin the fourth session of the Supreme Council. I think the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was constructive enough, although we had a lot of heated discussions, but we've always shown a willingness to make decisions. I hope that at the fourth session, we will work with you to examine all of our shortcomings in the previous work with a new quality. So I urge everyone to work in a quality manner, to vote in person, and, of course, to be present, to have a personal presence, both at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the work of the committees of the Supreme Council. Our daily routine is extremely saturated. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I commissioned us to review the legislative reform plan, the plan of our actual activity. And then, hold appropriate consultations with committees, with factions, with groups, with non-fractional deputies to update it, to complement it, and to continue to pursue the adoption of quality, important bills that people need during such a difficult period of time. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have today 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please sign up for the performance, please sign up. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow MPs! I'm counting on your attention. Today is a very important day to close the third session. And in front of Ukrainian citizens, in front of our voters, we have a lot of debt to settle. Today, the key challenges, the key issues facing the country, are solving economic problems. After all, as bad as people do today, they have never lived like this. The Radical Party faction proposes a clear list of laws that we urge Parliament to immediately consider, which will allow at least a little bit of the stalemate that the authorities have put on the neck of Ukrainian citizens, even though it may be a little more easily to breathe. That is why I demand from the Radical Party faction that Parliament urgently consider a number of bills, including 3809, on the abolition of pension taxes. People have earned their pension, now they have to pay their taxes because they have earned a penny pension and are forced to work. I think collecting taxes from pensions is genocide against Ukrainian pensioners. And that's why the Radical Party faction requires Parliament to make a decision to abolish pension taxes. Similarly, I would like to remind you that a year ago, last January, Parliament supported a bill of MPs from the 1086 Radical Party that Ukrainian women should have the right to retire at 55 years of age on condition that they have 30 years of experience. The president has vetoed this law, and to this day, you do not impose this law on the hall in order to overcome the veto. I demand that Parliament's leadership submit a bill to Parliament and overcome the President's veto and allow Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. Because people just don't have a pension, no one gets a job at that age, and they wait up to 60 years to get a pension. The next law that we insist on is the immediate adoption by Parliament of bill 3747, which provides for a census of the price of gas for the population. The paradox, worldwide oil price, falls on gas, and in Ukraine the cost of housing and utilities increases. We're buying 200 dollars of imported gas, and people are paying 270 dollars for gas on utility, that's pure water corruption paid by Ukrainian citizens. So we demand the adoption of a law that will allow the price of gas to be recalculated and actually reduce the cost of residential services. Finally, we demand the adoption of the Law (2353a) on the restructuring of the debts of natural persons. Last week, Parliament unfortunately failed to break the President's veto into a law that solved currency lenders' problems. We propose that this law be passed and that the problem be solved so that the borrowers can account for their debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u7	Please give the next speech, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich. Before you know how Yuri Vitaliyovich is going to go on the show, you know, the TV people are always asking what we have on the phone with you? And doesn't everyone understand why we're using it? I want to say to all the TV viewers that this is an increase in the voice of the speaker. Because when there is a loud noise in the hall, it is very difficult to hear the voice of the speaker. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u8	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the People's Front faction called on coalition colleagues to discuss government appointments and to offer the Prime Minister three candidates for each post. I ask my colleagues to be careful and carefully selected so that they don't blame the government for their bad work. We demand a transparent, public discussion of candidates for ministers and those who have applied and those who do not handle their duties. To offer at least three candidates and let us talk them out publicly with the public. Once again, no one holds a chair in the coalition government, but stop talking about resignations. Please, the procedure provided for in the current Rules: you collect 150 signatures, find 226 votes and vote. If not, then let's focus on the work and work in the coalition, nobody's holding on to the chair. To put it this way, I remind the coalition factions that are now scheduled for the second session of the working group to prepare the appendix to the coalition agreement. I'm calling the coalition factions again, send your representatives, come and let's work. Work on a document that will encourage both deputies and committees, and the government to work clearly, constructively, and to assume responsibility for non-compliance. By the way, in the last year, we have already started the process of amending the Constitution four times. The first was the removal of the immunity of MPs, and this should be voted on. The People's Front faction will give all the votes for removing the inviolability. The second is the matter of the Court of Auditors. Then we're looking at a very important question about decentralization, and today we're going to consider reforming the judiciary branch, a fact is a fact. The new Constitution should become a new social treaty that is approved. will be endorsed by the people at the all-Ukrainian referendum. We all need to recognize the common responsibility for the country. It is not possible for political interests, portfolios and coalition blackmail to be the main themes of Parliament and affect its work. First of all, this harms Ukraine. 20 days from now, we will celebrate the second anniversary of Maidan, and the Supreme Council has not yet passed legislation on the return of Janukovic's arrested assets and on absentee justice. And I have a question: Is the government guilty here too? A year and a half ago, the government arrested 40 billion dollars of former president's money, and they're still in custody. And the government's repeated appeals to the Supreme Council and law enforcement structures have failed. This money is in urgent need of the state. They're already reserved for the Special Forces and they have to go to military purchases. The People's Front faction insists on including and voting for the relevant bills. Voting for them will be a test for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Self-Help Union. Kiral Sergey tells Jehora Sobolev. Please, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u10	Self-help has carefully studied the proposals from Peter Prashenko's Block for the appointment of new ministers. The Prime Minister's position is equally clear, which is either to expel me or to work with me. Self-help thinks this approach is not effective. We need to study together why a very good government created by the constitutional majority was not successful in Parliament, when there was a constitutional majority to support all its ideas? Our first answer is that there is no leader in the government, no real head, that everyone would listen to, that would have the will and the courage to send away corrupts, away from state enterprises, away from taxpayers' money. The second answer: there is no one at the head of the government who is a huge supporter of economic freedoms who does not believe in state regulation, which believes in the economy, the free market, is now what needs most Ukrainian business and Ukrainian society as a whole. As long as we don't put such a Prime Minister, nothing will change from the transfer of individual ministers. Now we're talking about transferring individual ministers. Dear colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, it is certainly your right to place candidates in the government. But let us again examine why this government has failed. We talked about its formation: The prime minister and ministers must be the team. When the Prime Minister does not speak to the Vice-Prime Minister or the Minister, when they just hate each other physically, when they carry out the opposite policy, there is no way in the government. So our proposal is not to divide the government by party quotas. The parties have and should delegate worthy candidates. After discussing with the Prime Minister and after understanding that these are truly virtuous people who will give the same economic freedom to drive corrupt people away from state enterprises. The Self-Help faction is asking for a serious approach to these ideas. In fact, we now have the last chance for this Parliament to create an effective government that will vindicate the enormous hopes of people, of hope, first and foremost, of us. Let's do it. And the last request to the Speaker of the Supreme Council: Parliament itself owed to society a decision to open all the declarations already this year. Let's put this decision to a vote as long as we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u11	Ten seconds – finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u12	And every morning in the parliamentary newspaper, the names of all the MPs who don't vote for it will definitely work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sobolev Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the most difficult decision approved by Parliament last year was a budget decision. And today, our "Fatherland" faction clearly understands that our firm position is not to approve this budget, but it confirms once and for all that we must remain principled in the most difficult moments of the state's life. What do we hear today? Pensions are taxed, the gas of some kind goes to the population at a price that doesn't correspond to any economic justification, we see that electronic declarations appear to have been lost on the way to parliament, and no one who voted in favour of this budget, including all ministers and government officials. I think the answer is much simpler, in this case Parliament should be responsible for adopting and adopting such documents. But there's another equally important task: to create a government team that will implement the most crucial things. There can be no situation where the Prime Minister does not know who he is being offered as a government team, but there can be no situation where the Prime Minister does not define a country’s development strategy, but relies on anyone, looks for faults anywhere — in a bad coalition agreement, in a bad parliamentary vote, without taking responsibility for himself, above all, for everything that is going on in the country. That's why the government changed, and that's why the situation of change didn't just happen to the government, but the situation of change in the wrong economic rate that led the country to today's situation. That's why the Fatherland faction insists on these two key points: changing the budget strategy and changing the government strategy -- Parliament and focusing its work on a new parliamentary session. And it's not an issue of antipathy or love for ministers or for the Prime Minister, it's a question of responsibility for the country. Because when we see today that the solution to the key question: changing the state's development strategy, and above all economic strategy, depends on these deputies, depending on this sessional room, that's how we should view it. That's why our faction thinks that closing this session and starting a new session is a key issue, it's a matter of changing government strategy and changing government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u15	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group, Olesia Long. Turn on Olesa Long's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, today we are closing the next session and starting a new political phase in the Ukrainian Parliament. With what do we go, where do we go, and who can explain in two words to that Ukrainian who is watching our mouse ascension on that side of the screen? Where did they take the country? Our native Ukraine has always been rich with talented, educated people. The Ukrainians were always making progress. Our famous countrymen developed unimaginable technologies and built whole industries, such as Patton, Sikorsky, Deaf, Kings, Condratuk, and others. We're famous in the world because the first welding bridge, the first Earth satellite, the spaceships, the Buran rocket complex -- all invented by our natives. Ukrainians designed and constructed United States bomber planes, giant planes, amphibious planes. Russia's first cube of gas for the Kremlin came from our Ivano-Frankivsky, and the Ukrainian economy was the most powerful economy in the Soviet Union. What's my point? All that is needed to restore Ukraine is here within our country. Urban resources -- hands, our students are ahead of schedule to work abroad, Europe is ready to give our workers, people with gold hands, a permanent place to live. Why, then, does our authority not value our people so much? I'm talking to my coalition colleagues. Let's face it, that the experiment with the foreign-chains, to put it mildly, failed, because working in the executive power, they couldn't stop the flow of human and financial resources, they didn't realize that we also had a front here, a front with an internal enemy. While the boys in Donetsk are fighting for territorial integrity, you and I must stand here for the sovereignty and economic independence of our country. So just waving foreign diplomas and drawing millions of wages won't work, you have to work on the result that people expect of us. I'm talking to the coalition, so close up, you have to do reforms, we don't have to believe you, you have to convince every Ukrainian who just got a visa to go abroad, you have to be trusted by every teacher, doctor, pensioner. Today the MP's "will of the people" group is not critical, believe me, you can't do that because you're doing it yourself successfully. Today we call, you have 2 weeks to transform the government, do this, Ukraine needs a government that can bring the economy together. So after the Kabmin report, we have to make some conclusions to move on. Politics is the art of compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u17	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u18	Politics is the art of compromise and it is in this compromise that is the key to the future, the happy future of our country, and peace. Note, never in children’s letters from Ukraine to Santa Claus have there been so many appeals about the peaceful heavens above the earth and the end of the war. That's what our children want and ask. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u20	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Last week, we all witnessed a continuation of political trade that reflected on the effectiveness of Parliament's work. Of the nearly 90 bills, only 15 were passed, and only 3 were adopted. Parliament continues to ignore the need to participate in the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, the coalition shows no initiative, blocks all proposals of the Opposition Block and ignores the international call to implement the provisions of the Minsk Protocol and resolve the situation. The coalition understands that it has become a political bankruptcy and is trying to keep an economically incompetent government going. All political processes are going through between a coalition that does not use the trust of a nation and a government that has completely bankrupted. What's most tragic is that everyone, without the exception of a coalition faction, pretends that they didn't create this government that has nothing to do with economic failures. It is not as if they voted in favour of the budget for the destruction of the real sector of the economy, raising tariffs and reducing social assistance. All opposition initiatives are ignored, there is an attempt to close political processes and avoid any control. This led to the government and the coalition’s long - lost relationship with real life. That's why we think the ruling coalition should report alongside the government, which is fully responsible for the Cabinet of Ministers. The new economic program, which will be implemented by the new government and will take into account the interests of miners, farmers, medics, teachers, and teachers, is urgently needed. And to do that, we need to rebuild our own production, ensure population income growth, increase domestic demand and return our production to the external markets that have been virtually lost in the last two years by the efforts of the Cabinet of Ukraine, from large machine-building and light industry to the agricultural sector. Our demands remain the same as last week. First of all, accept the changes to the budget, the Tax Code, and adopt the Opposition Act. To resign this government and to develop economic strategies and laws that can really improve people's lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u21	Thank you. Victor Bondar from Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, in fact, in a few weeks we will be witnesses to the government's report on all the activities of the governing parliamentary coalition, on the government's activities during this year that have passed. And in fact, unfortunately, that's a sad summation of what we've done with the country this year. We see a totally hopeless economic policy, we see a lack of social policy, there is no investment policy. And unfortunately, we see that today in the hall there are the same processes that have been going on for a year, that is, virtually nothing is going on, no changes, and there is no logical action. The Rebirth Party has been talking for a year about what we're going to do every month, what we're going to do, what kind of action plan at least six months ahead, we're not talking about for a year, we're talking about two strategically, we're talking at least six months. We're talking about what we need from the ruling coalition to hear what economic policy is going to be like this year. What about exchange rates? What about social security? How will wages rise, pensions? How production will be supported for today, which essentially gives rise. The possibility of economic growth? What sectors of the economy will be supported? How will expertise be supported? Unfortunately, we see that in this room, the government has no idea what is going to happen. We're looking at budgeting last year for this year. Unfortunately, the budget is failing. The government’s economic policy has led to the budget’s neglect of the financing of trade and technology, the management and transfer of cultural finance, educational programs, and extended passages to local budgets. There was still funding for pensions, wages, and in fact the government could wipe their hands and say that we did our job. The economy was destroyed, no sector was supported, and social protection and social problems were passed on to the humanitarian sector to finance local budgets. What does this talk about? This suggests that, in fact, absolute impotence today is in power, absolute inability to make effective economic policies, and there is no plan of action for this year. So we demand that the government report to hear from the Parliamentary rostrum of every minister what he has done in a year, which is a plan for the next six months. And make decisions about each minister personally, not the grumpy government. Next. Listen to the government's economic bloc. What will be the economic policy this year? What is the system for stimulating infrastructure projects? How we support the national manufacturer and ours. Our powerful manufacturing companies? And how do we support the expertise that brings currency to the country? And that's what's important. We're demanding an expense report last year -- 500 billion dollars. And what will be the credit policy for this year? Because these are the debts of the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I want to inform you that last night the government's report to parliament was registered and sent by e-mail to all Ukrainian national deputies, and will also be posted today on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for use. Dear colleagues, you are being examined by a revised draft of the Law (register No. 3524). Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? 3524 – Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on justice. According to article 159 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the availability of the Constitutional Court's conclusions on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of the 157th and 158th articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. In line with the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 January 2016, which you have been given, the position of the amended bill (registration number 3524) has been recognized as meeting the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to article 149 of the Rules, the question is discussed in full discussion: a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Policy and Justice of Ruslan Knazević, within 10 minutes, a question of the rapporteur and the answer thereto, within 3 minutes, a statement by the representative of President Stephen Kubov, within 5 minutes, then statements by factions and groups, in three minutes, and three statements by the three national deputies of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please concentrate on an extremely important question. We're taking our seats, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovic Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, let me first of all inform you what the situation is now and in what way, in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure Act should be in force by the Supreme Council, taking into account the requirements of the constitutional procedure provided for in these instruments. First of all, let me remind you that this is about a bill that was, in fact, twice the subject of the Constitutional Court's consideration. For the first time, he was the subject of a procedure provided for in the Constitutional Court, which lasted literally for several weeks, and the Constitutional Court had scrupulously examined the bill for compliance with the 157, 158 articles of the Constitution and for its compliance with other articles of the Constitution. In that conclusion, which had previously been addressed to Parliament, the Constitutional Court had expressed compliance with articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of the bill and had made no reservations to it. Further, after political consultations, the President of Ukraine, in exchange for a revised draft of the Act of 3524 on 26 January 2016, which, according to that bill, which had previously been before the Constitutional Court, differed only from the fact that the amended version of the bill gave Parliament the right to recall, more precisely, the mistrust of the Attorney General, which had resulted in his resignation. Given the fact that the President had replaced the bill and defined it as urgent. On January 27, 2016, Parliament considered the bill and recalled it, decided to include it in the agenda and to refer to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion on the corresponding 157, 158 articles of the Constitution, establishing it as urgent. At the same time, it was our decision to consider a previously rejected bill, which had been introduced by the bill, which had been replaced by a revised draft Act amending the Constitution. Because this bill was set for consideration by the Constitutional Court as a matter of urgency. I would like to withdraw these insinuations immediately on the grounds that the Constitutional Court has been able to reach an early conclusion in such fairly fast terms. This is a five - day period, for me, which was absolutely not enough for me to draw your attention, the Constitutional Court simply reproduced the conclusion that it had previously reached. Except for one rule that was duly adopted by the President, taking into account the agreement between the factions' leaders and the President of Ukraine. So in addition, let's say we analyze the extra clauses to lead to some, let's say, expert conclusion and need a little bit of time. Because the Constitutional Court, in its previous conclusion, has thoroughly examined all the provisions of this bill and has in fact concluded in the same way as it has concluded in previous bills. So yesterday at 12 o’clock the Constitutional Court in the public part announced its conclusion, which was adopted on January 30. And if very briefly, in my conclusion, which is given to you in advance, I think that every national MP has been able to get to know each other, the Constitutional Court does not see the contradiction of the bill before the 157th, 158th articles of the Constitution. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has made no reservations about other articles of the Constitution in which the bill could be contradictory. And so, according to the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, we have two options, two options in the case that we have the Constitutional Court's conclusion: if this were to happen. In the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court found that it was not in conformity with articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Bill, or that it had made any reservation in that case, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, Parliament was obliged to continue to work on the bill, to set the time limits for amending such a bill, and to continue to move accordingly in accordance with a specified constitutional procedure; in this case, since there were no concerns about the text of the Bill and the correspondingity of articles 157 and 158, Parliament was obliged to consider the bill in a prior approval regime. I'll tell you right away so there's no questions, because the national MPs were right about what. Since there are no warnings from the Constitutional Court, the Parliament cannot make any changes to the text of the bill at the time of its prior approval and subsequent approval. Accordingly, this morning the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, as it should do under the Rules, met for its meeting and, taking into account the positive conclusion of the Constitutional Court, unanimously, with the exception of the two who abstained and one voted. The two who voted against and one abstained recommended that the Parliament approve a draft amendment to the Constitution by the number 3524 of 26 January 2016 (as regards the judiciary), which was designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. In that case, if a prior approval procedure is to take place today, it means that immediately after the start of a new parliamentary session, which will begin today at 16 p.m., Parliament, as appropriate, can proceed to the consideration of this issue and the adoption of the bill as a whole. If prior approval takes place today, the Committee on Legal Policy is prepared to take the initiative in preparing this issue for consideration in general at the next session of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. I finished the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please report to the reporter in three minutes. Please. Please, National Deputy Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u26	Lithuania, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u27	Gregory Sverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that judicial reform is one of the urgent steps Ukraine should take. And I think our Parliament should support this law with the greatest number of votes. And those problems that seem to exist in some factions of our Parliament can be solved by the way that before the second vote, before the second reading vote, draft bills will be prepared that will describe the situation in detail and resolve any disagreements that may be at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, may I have your attention? Today, our friends are visiting Ukraine -- the heads of parliaments that I would like to introduce to you -- they are in the guest bed, that is. Attention, fellow officers! Vice-speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia, Ms. Inez Libinina-Egner. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Speaker of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Denmark, Mrs. Pia Käersgor. [[Applause]] President of the Parliament of the Republic of Estonia, Mr. Eiki Nestor. [[Applause]] Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Iceland, Mr. Einar Christine Goodfinsson. [[Applause]] Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania, Mrs Loretta Grauzienjeni. [[Applause]] Mr. Olemik Tommessen, President of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Norway. [[Applause]] Speaker of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Sweden, Mr. Urban Allyn. [[Applause]] We welcome you, dear friends, and thank you for Ukraine's solidarity and support. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u30	Dear friends, I want to clarify a few things, because maybe not all the national MPs have cleared up. And now the question was that a whole series of laws needed to be passed in order to start a re-agent process. I want to remind you that the judges' retesting process starts in two weeks. And it starts with us not according to these changes to the Constitution, but according to the law that we passed: "To secure the right to a fair trial." A change to the Constitution is simply a reference to that law. Why it hasn't happened so far, I'll remind you. Because it was only at the end of October that a meeting of judges was held that approved the new Council of Judges, which only after it was approved, adopted a corresponding change in the order of the High Qualification Commission’s reasserting of judges. Now, in accordance with this decision, the Higher Qualifications Commission has adopted all the relevant documents required by law to implement this decision. And I want to point out that since the 15th, well, in fact, since the 17th, the re-testing of judges is officially starting. This process.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u32	This process will begin with a review of the appropriate positions of approximately 100 judges who are due to end of the term, a five-year term in office. Thereafter, a re-certification will be carried out in all other courts. All we have to do now is make immediate changes to the deadlines for the re-authentication of the Supreme Court and the higher courts, because, according to the law, these terms have already ended, and once we make this change, we can say that this year, starting from February to the end of the year, I hope that the process of re-authenticating at least the higher courts will be completed, and then gradually we will move forward in appeals and local courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u33	Thank you. One last question. Andrew Illenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] The last question is Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u34	Ruslan Petrovich, Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ruslan Petrovich, please tell me if you think that the main problem that exists today in the judicial system is not such an institutional problem, although it certainly is, too, but the main problem that exists is the problem of the judiciary, it's a direct personal factor, whether we want it or not. And probably those changes to the Constitution that are proposed should first and foremost apply to the actual cleansing system of the judiciary from total corruption, from the total dependence on telephone law, which unfortunately is today. You know, it's just a retest, it doesn't believe in Ukrainian society, because we saw a retest in the D.A.'s office that ended in nothing. So there must have been more decisive action here, and then there would have been more perception that it was not cosmetic, but real reform. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u35	I don't want to comment on your speech. I can only say that you know that there is a conclusion of the Venice Commission that has made clear that there is no point in implementing such a procedure in Ukraine. On the other hand, I'll be right there. Dear colleagues, the main purpose of such changes, in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission and in accordance with the position of the President, is to deprive Parliament of its influence on the judiciary. Why? Because, excuse me, here are our fellow Europeans, they think, and that's their right, that we haven't chosen judges in months and years, we can't release judges, that's political pressure. Because this has caused friends to understand that we have dozens of areas in Ukraine where the court is absent as a phenomenon, because there is no judge elected by Parliament. In fact, people complain in court, and there is no legal case as a matter of fact. In order for this problem to not be complete, Europeans are recommending that Parliament be deprived of this kind of authority. We have brought ourselves into this situation. We need to face the truth. If we wanted to solve this in a different way, we would probably solve them, and so we moved on and now we regret the fact that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u36	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Stepan Kubov, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council. Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u37	Dear Ukrainian people, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! A fair, impartial and impartial court is an important guarantee of the rights and freedoms of every citizen and of the rule of law. Today, one of the priority requirements of Ukrainian society is to establish the independence of the judiciary, to strengthen its responsibility, and to introduce a staff renewal of the judiciary. On November 25, 2015, the President of Ukraine introduced the Supreme Council of Ukraine and was recognized as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution (justice) at number 3524. During the discussion of the bill, a number of warnings were made regarding the inadequacy of the removal from the Constitution of Ukraine of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express mistrust to the Attorney General. In view of the above, on 26 January 2016, the President of Ukraine brought to the attention of the Supreme Council, as an urgent matter, an amended draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution (for justice) in exchange for a previously introduced bill of the same name (registration number 3524). The drafting of the bill, in view of the circumstances outlined above, was made necessary to ensure that the political consensus could be reached in resolving the issue of possible mistrust by Parliament to the Attorney General. Thus, the amended draft law proposes to establish that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include not only the granting of an appointment and discharge from office of the President of Ukraine of the Attorney-General, as provided for in the previous draft of the bill, but also the expression of mistrust on the part of the Attorney-General, which results in his resignation. Thus, according to the draft law, early discharge from the post of Attorney General will be carried out on the basis not only of the law, as provided for in the previous draft, but also of the Constitution. For the rest of his provisions, it should be noted that they have not changed. On 30 January 2016, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine recognized the bill as satisfying the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", gives Parliament the right to consider the issue of the previous approval of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice). The changes were expected yesterday. Therefore, on February 1, 206, at the Conciliation Council, an urgent consideration of the bill was made. As far as its main positions are concerned, it should be emphasized once again that their content has already been discussed in the Parliament Hall and is to ensure the independence of the judiciary, its depoliticization, the promotion of professional standards of the judiciary, the improvement of the principles of the administration of justice, the provision of institutions and the capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the system of enforcement of court decisions, and so on. In this way, I would like to pay some attention to the importance of making the changes noted for the Ukrainian society. Because not only will they contribute to the stated goal but they will also create independent conditions to ensure everyone’s right to a fair trial. In view of the above, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to take a decision on the prior approval of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Constitution on Justice (Registration No. 3524), thereby justifying society's expectation of positive changes in the justice system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u38	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, please, let's move on to factions and groups. Please sign up for the presentation from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It was an honor to open this discussion. In fact, before you go to this rostrum, I'm just. I missed the last time I was in court, and I remembered these feelings that you felt in today's Ukrainian national court. You feel, first of all, powerlessness and second of all, fear. Because there is no truth in these courts today. And this is the biggest social demand for a change in the system that exists today in Ukraine. And that's why we have no right to betray this question of society. Colleagues, do they guarantee that the changes proposed protect the rights of human rights, as provided for and to be provided for by the Constitution of the State? Regrettably, there are great doubts. You know, on Saturday, the Constitutional Court made its decision, this decision is positive. But I hold in my hand ten conclusions, ten separate opinions from the judges of the Constitutional Court. Each individual thought is negative about the changes to this Constitution. We have a lot of respect for the work that has been and has been done, including by Oxana Siroid, a member of the Self-Help Party and a vice-speaker of this Parliament in the drafting of the Constitution. Sadly, though, under the circumstances, we cannot make that decision in the first reading. In this connection, the Self-Help faction proposes not to lose the good work that this Parliament has already done today. This editorial contains a lot of good changes, but at the same time it poses a very serious threat to the President's total control over the judiciary branch for the next two years. We suggest that this paper be sent to the committee and that Parliament be able to make changes to this text within a certain period of time, and bring it to such a state that we can clearly tell the society that these changes to the judiciary guarantee the right to a fair trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u40	Please, People's Deputy Sphenov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u41	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Our faction last week has already stated its position on constitutional changes in the judiciary. Our faction endorses the idea of this reform to create an independent, political-free judiciary. Therefore, we support progressive changes such as depriving Parliament of the influence on the appointment of judges and the President on the formation of courts and the dismissal of judges, i.e. the implementation of the main recommendations of the Venice Commission. But we won't get it. What do we get in practice? Two years of reorganization, the liquidation of courts, the transfer of judges from one court to another, will be carried out by the President. All judges will be re-assessed, by unclear procedure, and clear criteria will not be defined, there are only evaluation judgements. For example, the qualification requirement of judges is kindness. Who will determine the criteria of kindness? The powers of judges to appoint for a period of five years shall be terminated by the end of the period for which they have been appointed. I would like to recall that all these judges have been held, most of them, following the recommendations of international experts, examinations have also been carried out with continuous supervision. Such judges can now be appointed by law. They may or may not be appointed, they may not be appointed, again there are no criteria, all of this together is nothing but political pressure on the judiciary and illustration. We categorically do not support manual administration of the judiciary. I note that the Venice Commission has not once opposed the full evaluation of judges and that the experience gained by judges after a five-year term of office must be duly taken into account in constitutional reform. If reform is to be carried out, let us carry out it, rather than talking about progressive norms supported by the Venice Commission, which will come into force at any time. We will form a judicial system according to old rules and then introduce new European provisions, what will then be the effect of reform? There is no way to usurp judicial power because it is a separate institution, which is the main democratic institution. I will add another fact that puts pressure on judges, in previous amendments to the Constitution, Bill 1776 of the rules of detention, the arrest of a judge has been formulated so that a judge may be detained if he has been detained in the commission or immediately following the commission of a serious or particularly serious crime. And Venice has supported this particular subject. Now it's changing again. Similarly, it is unwarranted that, in fact, the change is incomprehensible: three levels or four. The right to appeal only has been established. The powers of the Constitutional Court to interpret laws are excluded, the jurisdiction of the courts is narrowed to a legal dispute and a criminal charge. For the time being, legal facts or irrefutable rights have already been upheld or denied in court. Our faction is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u42	Ten seconds – finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u43	advocates judicial reform. However, all the above observations are not considered very principled. We understand that the law enforcement system has not justified confidence, we understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u44	Ten seconds – finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u45	All the possible illustrative laws, you couldn't fail to clean up, not improve the judicial system. Maybe that's why it's happening. Maybe that's why it's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u46	Come on. Let's say hello to our colleagues again. [[Applause]] Please, the People's Front, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u47	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian people are entitled to a fair trial. We promised him that. It was promised that professional lawyers would come instead of corrupts in mantiacs. And that's what must be the backbone of any fair, real constitutional reform. And that's what we suggested in our text of changes to the Constitution, which we worked with the radical party specialists, civil society specialists. This bill envisions the total release of prosecutors, the total release of judges, and the election of new ones for open, transparent lists. Today, this bill is in Parliament's Hall, and once we get 150 signatures, it will become constitutional, and we will be able to bring it to Parliament. And I'm sure then he'll be the main piece of legislation to decide the issue of fair and fair trial through judicial reform. But, you know, we realize that as long as we're here in the competition between the two concepts of constitutional reform, there are people in this Parliament and outside of it who want everything to stay the way it is. The judges, appointed by Portnow and Kiwalov, continue to create corruption in Ukraine with the name of justice, and the corrupters look forward to it because they dream that their wallet will be the primary guarantee of their integrity and independence. That's why, on the basis of the responsibility of this issue, the People's Front faction decided yesterday at its meeting to vote on the basis of Bill 3524. But the People's Front faction will not vote on this bill as a whole unless three of our basic requirements are met. First principle of requirement: Parliament must remain entitled to recall the Attorney General. And the president put in this option, and it has to stay definitive. The second principle is our position as a trilantic court system. There has to be an extermination of the Super-Corruptional Mastership and the Higher Specialized Courts. Our third principle is that all the judges in our country have to be reinstated. Call it whatever you want, the reagent procedure, etc. But we demand that such a procedure be prescribed by law, such a mechanism that every judge in our country will go through this procedure. And it's going to be a procedure that's actually called transparent and open competitions. That is why we demand that all these issues be prescribed in the laws, above all, in the Law on the Status of Judges and adopted by Parliament before we vote on a bill of amendments to the Constitution as a whole. There won't be 300.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u48	Ten seconds to complete, Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u49	There won't be 300 votes unless this matter is resolved. And we also insist that the system. The question of changes to the Constitution is a systemic issue, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u50	Ten seconds – finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u51	This is a complex decision, so it must be the only comprehensive bill adopted and approved by the all-U.S. referendum and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Members, we are now considering one of the most important issues of post-mystery Ukraine. The whole society has supported Midan, particularly because there is no justice in Ukraine, there is no legal protection in the courts. Today, we hear speeches by various political parties that tend to make it impossible to vote. Some say that the President’s dictatorship, despite the fact that the President can, without any help today, remove and appoint judges, unite and dismiss courts, and now he will have no such right. But they don't read it, they don't see it, they say it's the President's dictatorship. What kind of dictatorship is it if he's doing it on his own today, and he's making a law by which the High Council of Justice will do it through transparent procedures? Others refer to the political cleansing of the courts. Gentlemen, what are the cleaning points if clear professional criteria for re-testing judges are offered? Even in the Soviet Union, more than two higher-ranking judges were called off. We have a judge who can print corrupt decisions dozens of times, which will then be annulled, but continue to make money in a black robe named Ukraine. "The road to hell is paved with good intentions," says the Holy Scriptures. That's why I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens right now. Every time you don't vote on these constitutional changes today, every time you get an illegal residence, business or freedom, you know: a corrupt judge from the Portnova-Kivalova team does so not by the name of Ukraine, but by the name of those deputies of the Supreme Council who today will find any excuse not to take these judges off. Their position will allow them to remain corrupt and abuse the people of Ukraine. On behalf of the BPT faction, I strongly insist on voting for changes to the Constitution and now, and in the spring, in the final version, to finally clean up corruption from the Ukrainian courts and give justice to that country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u54	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Court reform, indeed, appears to be the most difficult reform we need to carry out. And that's exactly what we need to come up with when we analyze the bill that's been introduced. I don't think it's a secret that corporate, incarceration, corruption of the system depends not only on what will be defined in the constitutional basis of the judiciary. It will also depend on whether it will have the power of will, the conscience of the judge who has been summoned from Parliament, from the President's Administration or from the local administration, to go to a press conference and declare it, as judges do in countries whose parliamentary leaders have just been in our session room. This will be a turning point, but can it be done by a judge who is now being ruled and who today can be deprived of judicial status on political, economic, but not legal grounds. And I think that's how this bill needs to be considered. I think that any exceptions and references to laws on selection, transfer, integration are impossible. Any judge and any judge's office should be open. That doesn't mean that if you're in a judicial corporation, you can be transferred without a competition for any position to any other court. I think that these exclusions are impossible, and I think that's crucial and principled. The second thing that's most important to us and our faction is to simplify the citizens' appeal to the courts. Well, how can a judge deal with 100, 200, 300, 1000 cases a month, well, what quality can such cases be? That is what judicial reform should be aimed at. Third. The more double cassation, appeals, the more money will go into the judicial system. That's why the only clear-cut vertical of a court decision should be able to rely, if not on a direct case law, on the right to a higher court decision, it's confirmed by international courts, and any judge who approves another decision is aware of corruption. As a result, we believe that the first reading of this bill can be passed and that our faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u56	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. The reform of the judicial system, as we all understand, is a key reform for the country. Because if there's no independent justice, there's no investor, there's no jobs, there's no money, there's no justice. Every person who goes to court is seeking justice. She doesn't go to court to go out or because she doesn't have anything to do with it. And she goes to court in the last case where she has nowhere else to go. And the key thing is that she wants to find out in court whether she has money or not, whether she has a hairy hand or she has connections, whether it's a simple colporteur or a worker or a deputy or a president or a pensioner. Everyone wants to find the truth in court. Can we today find the truth in our judgments? I don't think there's anyone in the country who'll say we can find this truth. The aim of judicial reform is to restore justice so that everyone who comes to justice gets the truth. Does the Presidential Draft Amendments to the Constitution solve these problems? For our firm conviction, it doesn't matter. The Presidential draft changes to the Constitution actually preserves the judicial system today. The so - called reagent will pass through those in need of authority and will not pass through those who do not serve the authorities. So in fact, today's judicial system remains the same as it was for Yanukovich. And we have a lot of examples when judges are already ordering today’s authorities just as carefully as they were doing these orders in Yanukovich’s day. That's why the Radical Party faction does not support the draft amendments to the Constitution in part of the judiciary introduced by the President. But the Radical Party is a constructive political force, we are opposed to power, but we are not opposed to the country and to the citizens. We understand the urgent need to reform the judicial system. That's why we worked from the Radical Party with colleagues from the People's Front, from others we worked on our draft changes to the Constitution, alternative to the President's. It's distinguished by a few key points. First. We propose to release all the judges and prosecutors. It's a social requirement. This is the only way to overcome corruption in the judicial system is to release all the judges and prosecutors. We propose to select the Attorney General in a transparent competition, not to appoint a political appointee who is appointed by the President and the Attorney General, to follow the President's orders. That's why we're addressing all of our fellow Members of Parliament, and we've already started collecting signatures for an alternative draft amendment to the Constitution. They've collected 37 signatures. Let's collect 150 signatures, register an alternative draft of amendments to the Constitution and continue the discussion, and find compromise with the President, together with the majority of parliaments, and adopt a law that will allow us to establish in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u58	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u59	Dear Head, dear colleagues, there is a well-known truth: "The mind is the guard of the heart." Here, to a greater extent, when we discuss the subject, we express our emotions, say that the court has no confidence in society. Yes, the Supreme Council doesn't have the same confidence in society, it doesn't have a government, and we're going to judge and evaluate. But we obviously need to answer a few basic questions: What is the Constitution under which Ukraine lives? What Constitution is legitimate in 1996 or 2004? The answer will be mixed, and you all understand that. The second question. Does the Constitution work even if it is not fully legitimate? It's not working. In accordance with the Constitution, 106 laws were required to implement all relevant standards. Less than half accepted. There are no laws such as peace congregations, a local referendum, an territorial administration, and we are undergoing total reforms. This is, according to a large estimate, called propionation. The other one. Or do we have standards that have direct effect on education, health care. Why aren't we talking to them? Why we don't have a fundamental report on how the Constitution of Ukraine works. Then it will become clear what changes need to be made. Our group proposes to do so. First. In order not to stop the process, we are now receiving at least 226. Next. Next, I stress, we need to look at all the amendments and come up with a single document to ensure that the actual new constitution is adopted. Keep moving, it'll be ridiculous. And one more moment. We need to hear a report, maybe our committee, maybe the Ministry of Justice: why the Constitution doesn't work and why laws actually replace the Constitution. I can say that in the example of the education law, I'm not talking about medicine anymore -- it's a complete collapse. And the last. We suggest that the Supreme Council "clear the field" and we do not complain that the Supreme Council does not appoint or release judges. "Clean off the field": everyone who is asked to consider the issue of dismissal and appoint judges. This is the irresponsible action of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: there is no prosecution, there is no trial, and here we shake and talk about people not being able to find protection! Where it will be found if we do not perform our functions! I think we need to keep moving in this sequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three speakers from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please prepare for the three-minute performances. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Andrew George. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u61	Today there are one and a half thousand vacancies of judges in the country, today there is a High Council of Justice and so-called WCCS, which are totally legitimate and can work. Because of their high-quality activities, 10-15 percent of the judges can lose their jobs completely legitimately, absolutely fair. Are these opportunities used by Ukrainian authorities? No, because there is no internal political and socio-psychological desire to change the judicial system. Will these changes help? They may or may not help, and we will thus underestimate the basic law of the country, the Constitution. For we have not voted more faithfully with you, we have voted in favour of the law, for a just judgment. Where is this law? Why isn't it working? We say the law didn't work. We guarantee that in three months we say the Constitution didn't work, but we can't afford it. Serious problems with the supremacy of the judiciary, with the President for the next two years. Today we have a good president, we don't know who tomorrow will be, it's life. Second question to the D.A., are we returning her custody to the D.A.'s office again? Question three. Why did we put legal usurpation there, for what? In order for people to worry about it? And the last. You and I have ruined, like Parliament, the constitutional process, by voting for the Rules last time. This does not give rise to confidence in the Constitution. So today we propose, we don't make this decision, we go back to the committee, we work together, we don't convince each other that it's necessary. It is necessary, but we do so in a transparent, clear, honest way, in the name of Ukraine, not in the name of the name and the name of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u62	Please, National MP Matkovsky. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u63	Thank you to fellow people's deputies from the people's control, who are in the same position as I am in that part that we are also changing the constitutional process, unfortunately we are not taking any lessons. Today, we decided to live south on the first Tuesday, not the first Tuesday of February. Because on the first Tuesday of February, we would have had to sing to Himmn in the morning and open a new session. So now the unique situation is the day of the rally in the Ukrainian Parliament. Now, about the document that we're looking at. Friends, this is where my colleagues came in and said they were. The project is shameful, frankly. It's bad, but we'll approve first, and then we won't approve. I have a question. Are you making fun of everyone? If you approve earlier, who can you not submit to this bill, how will you continue to change it? Are you not reading chapter HS making changes to the Constitution? Now I have a question for the Constitutional Court. I understand that there's a lot of work to do, but did we come to the pen on Saturday weekends to collect, kidnap members of the Constitutional Court, decide to rewrite two sentences? They're like the post office working constitutionally, they're rewriting two sentences, they're writing, we don't have any warnings about "right and human freedom" and we don't have any warnings about territorial integrity. I have a question, let's give 99 million dollars to the Constitutional Court, and I suggest we settle it, take the money into the general budget, there's going to be one representative of the President in the Constitutional Court. Well, what's the point of keeping the Constitutional Court in a hundred million dollars if it's called to collect and rewrote two lines independent of the text that's given to them? And the last position: friends, well, this is going to end badly, to talk about poofous, general things without reading the text, isn't the text clear? Friends, I have a question: why would the basic powers of the High Council of Justice and all other bodies begin in April 2015? But of course, because in April of the 15th year (well, if there are no presidential elections for the next year), there's going to be a second round of the presidential election campaign. Are we writing the Constitution for the next President? The Supreme Council of Justice does not act under this President. So I would like, my friends, to urge you to share the same responsibility for the country when the Ukrainian people summarize and appreciate the activities of the Ukrainian authorities of this time, and Parliament will not forget the unmistakable word. So let's think about how to make decisions. I'm saying once again, colleagues from the People's Control asked and this is my position, we don't have the right to vote on such changes, we have to write with the community and experts a completely different law to be an independent judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u64	Vladimir Ariev, "Peter Prashenko's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, do you know how different an experienced politician is from an inexperienced one? An experienced politician will explain matters in beautiful words, and that is the difference that we see today. All I see is that if we continue to delay judicial reform, it will actually stop any development of the country. Tell me, please, here is a bunch of businessmen sitting in the Council, you would have yourself invested in Ukraine, in a country with such a judicial system, I have a lot of doubts that as a person on the side, you would have looked at this system and decided to invest in Ukraine. But what do we see today? We see a lot of discussions today, so we need them. But the proposal for the release of judges is very good, and everyone has to be expelled. There is one problem, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has been firmly opposed to this approach, and we today have to consider such things. Moreover, today's bill is perfectly clear and clearly endorsed by the same Venice Commission and European structures. Everything else proposed today is constructive proposals, they can be drafted into bills as sub-legislative, sub-constitutional acts. We don't have to put everything in the Constitution, the Constitution is the basic rule, everything else comes out of it. So let's not play games with words, but let's vote and finally take the step that society has been waiting for us to do for years: to make judicial reform rather than to talk about it, and to throw people's hopes into the trash one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. We're going to go to the vote. Three speeches are completed, and the closing statement, please, is completed by the committee head Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please. Please. Take your seats, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make those remarks on the relevance and possibility of introducing alternative bills by individual people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the draft Act amending the Constitution (as far as the judiciary is concerned) has been brought to the attention of the President! - early December. It's been two months since then, and there's plenty of time to make an alternative for the first bill, and now for the second one. In no way does anyone restrict you to these rights. I just don't understand why we're taking so long. We've been waiting for the conclusion to come, and now we're making an alternative. But under no circumstances is this an obstacle to the movement of the bill if 150 MPs are to be signed. And I promise you that our committee will look at it quickly and propose an appropriate conclusion for the Supreme Council. And last of all, the Constitutional Court. Of course, they can be reproached and ridiculed, including their conclusions. But they did what they had to do under the Constitutional Court Act that we had adopted here. Either let the law change, or then let the question not to them, but to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u68	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. You know, I'd like to remind you of the logic of action. The Constitutional Commission, which includes a sufficient number of high-quality professionals, including representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at various levels, worked on the text of amendments to the Constitution, endorsed the Constitutional Commission, resulting in these changes being sent to the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission has reached a positive conclusion. After that, the President of Ukraine, using his constitutional right, brought this change to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today we have to take some first step on the path of genuine judicial reform. So today I call on everyone to support these changes, to start this process. Convinced of the need for the development of the Constitution to adopt quality laws that will allow all mechanisms to be regulated, because Ukraine, society, needs an honest, transparent and fair judicial system of Ukraine, and the right to an alternative is available to everyone and it can be used to the full. But not doing anything about it is even worse, because that's what the old system says, and we can't let that happen. So I now urge everyone to vote and to take the basis for the draft decision. Let's move on, dear fellows, to making a decision. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 8 of article 149 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote a proposal for prior approval of the amended draft Law (registration number 3524) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on justice. Please prepare the national MPs and please vote. Please support the proposal and the bill. Vote, please, Your Honor. [[11:30:48]] For 244 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. This is an absolutely responsible decision. And congratulations on the first step of a genuine judicial reform. Let's move on, dear fellows. In accordance with the agenda and proposals made by the Conciliation Council to the leaders of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, there is a daily proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the decision of the draft Law registration number 3700: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies". Please vote: inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please. [[11:31:58]] For the 220. 220 votes, respectable colleagues. As an exception, my friends, as an exception, this is the last time I'm going to put this motion to a vote. Identify yourself. At the suggestion of faction leaders, the authors of the draft law. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. 3700. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Please vote. [[11:32:40]] For 225 225. [[B in m in s a l in]] Offer. Okay, okay. Again? Okay, okay. Oleg Lazko makes a bid from the faction to put it to the vote again. It's a day's work, you don't have to go back. Colleagues, day-to-day involvement. When you consider the law, you will realize that everything is not as scary as you are. 3700 is the day-to-day inclusion and decision-making. Let's talk about what you're talking about. 3700, day-to-day and decision-making, we vote. Please vote. [[11:33:32]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Easy is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u69	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to restate this law and adopt it. Dear colleagues, there must be responsibility before the electorate, let us not be afraid of responsibility. Promises before elections, let's do it after the elections, and everyone who cheats on voters has to do it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u70	All right, guys, let's do it again. There's a proposal, now we're putting into the agenda for making a decision, we're going to continue to discuss this issue, we're going to express all our positions, preferably based on reading the text. So, you ready? Please, 3,700 for the daytime and decision-making. Please vote. [[11:35:00]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, almost everyone votes by factions. What suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. All of it. One last time. Please, let's vote again. The shoemaker voted in favour. [[B in m in s a l in]] So listen, George Chizmar came up, he hit "holding on," but he voted. So his voice is not counted. Let's do it again if you do it. Well, that's his offer. If he voted for it, it was the 226th vote. And so, please, for the last time. Entry into the agenda for decision 3,700. Please determine by vote. We're voting 3,700. Vote. [[11:36:41]] For the 220. No votes. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 3465, draft law. Attention! This is an important law, and we discussed it on the Conciliation Council. 3465: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine" (as regards the irreversibility of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Now there'll be an offer. Attention! Listen very carefully. This question needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u71	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, we need to make a decision with you, colleagues, from the previous Supreme Council draft Law No. 3465: amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts" (as regards the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). I would like to remind you that the committee, after considering this bill, has decided to return the draft to the subjects of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Most members of the committee feel that the proposed innovations do not solve the existing problem of resorting to the procedure but simply create the basis for corruption and abuse of the organs of pretrial investigation. It has been established that a special judicial investigation or judicial investigation since a person has been declared in combination with a finding of other crimes, not just crimes against the State, corruption and war crimes, will create grounds for ignoring the investigators and the court's need to carry out such a search and for speeding up the sentencing of any person. So you can come home sometime without getting a message to come to the investigator, of which you can. Any reason they changed the address, anything else, and no longer being able to see the apartment or get suspended. The bill in this section contradicts the task of criminal conduct in the matter of prompt and full investigation, as well as the invocation of the responsibility of the accused. But it's a non-working article 281 of the Criminal Procedure Code. about the suspect's search. In addition, proposals for a draft law will have a negative impact on the status of respect for the rights and freedoms of persons, including in the context of the requirements of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms concerning the provision of justice and the principles of criminal conduct, the head of the Second Criminal Procedures Code of Ukraine. As a result, a large number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights may be opened against Ukraine. In view of the defined, colleagues, please support the committee's decision and return the draft to the subject of the right to legislative initiative and to be further elaborated to introduce today's new bill, which will be considered tomorrow at the committee meeting and adopted. and the committee will decide on this new amended bill. Thank you for your attention. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is Andrew Anatoliyovich's proposal that we return him to work on preparing for his first reading to the committee. This is a question, it needs to be settled, but it needs to be addressed in a qualitative way. There is an offer, colleagues, to send him to the committee now is an important law. In the committee, he's being worked well and brought to our attention to correct him so that he's not the way he is today, and we could be responsible for bringing those who are sorry to be concealed for serious crimes. So I'd like everyone to support, colleagues, 3,465 return to the First Committee of the Supreme Council for a second time. Cosmiakin. All right, subject, we got a deal. Subject, we're returning the subject to reprocessing for the first time. Do you accept that offer, colleagues? I would ask all the deputies to take their seats and vote for this proposal. Come on, I'll put in a signal vote so we don't lose. Colleagues, I ask you all to uphold this law - the irresistibility of punishment. Returning the subject to the first reading and preparing a quality law in conjunction with the committee. We're voting for an emergency, a return to the committee. Ready? Please be supportive. Please take your seats. Take your seats, dear fellows. The subject for preparation, for once again, is the irreparability of punishment. Please support everyone. Vote? Signal vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:41.]] For 222 Colleagues, 222 votes. Please, take your seats. We need to get him back to the committee, to the subject. Invite MPs. So, do we vote or do we vote again? Ready, colleagues? Please, for the first time in the legislative initiative, vote. Please be supportive. Subject, yes. Please support, we vote. Let's support it. [[11:43:46]] For 227 Please. It's a done deal, it's a go. Please prepare and we will take him to the next meeting. 3025, reverend, the draft Law on Special Seizure of Property. There are suggestions to consider it by a reduced procedure, this is the first reading. If you'd like to vote in favour of the hearing, with a reduced procedure, please support the confiscation. Vote. [[11:44:37]] For-141 Dear colleagues, I would like your attention. Under the reduced procedure, the draft Law 3025 should be considered. Please support this proposal. Please, for short. [[11:45:15.]] For-129 None. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal by the author of the bill to postpone his consideration. Further consultations will be held, and we may find understanding in this regard. See, colleagues, one more question: 131 articles on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of public-private partnerships in Ukraine and to stimulate investment)." Listen carefully, we need to correct this question. On 24 November 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of State-private partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment), 1058. In accordance with article 1 of the Rules, you will be given a proposal to correct disagreements. If there's no objection, I'll put this document to the vote for all proposals. That's exactly what I'm You see in paragraph 1 you have to add "according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" and part 3 put it in such an order and add it where it is."which is owned and acquired by the concessionaire in accordance with the terms of the concession contract." In fact, these are technical remedies for 131 articles. Colleagues, 131 article, please give a signal vote on correcting the inaccuracies of the law. Colleagues, please take your seats. We need to correct technical inaccuracies in the law that we passed with you, that prior to the development of public-private partnerships and the promotion of investment. In accordance with the Rules, these differences are also presented to you with suggestions for correcting them. Ready to vote, signal. Ready, give me a signal vote on 13th, please. These are technical inaccuracies. [[11:47:57]] For 169 Okay. We'll hold consultations and we'll agree on that. And just as under the State Procurement Act 3559, you also have to remove the inaccuracies. They are given to you according to the Rules. You remember, we need to unlock and allow me to sign the State Procurement Act. I talked about it on the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. That's right. Colleagues, you and I have passed the Public Procurement Act, the anti-corruption law in public procurement. There are technical inaccuracies that need to be corrected – ambiguous treatment of articles. According to 131 articles, the committee made these proposals, and I submit them. So once you've adopted these changes, you'll give me the right to sign the Public Procurement Act. Colleagues, he has to act and save the budget and not make it impossible to break them up. Ready, colleagues. Ready, give me the signal. The 131st signal vote. 3559 is public procurement. They're all handed out by the committee and filed. Andrew Ivanchuk, please read the suggestions you made on the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your consideration is covered by article 131 of the Rules, amendments, clarifications of inaccuracies and reconciliations to Bill 3559. You remember, we accepted it on the last plenary day of last year -- that's the transparency of purchasing. This project is being done by electronic purchases that are already under way. worked in the Ministry of Defence, in other central executive bodies. Last year we held a round table, the economy in public procurement was almost half a billion dollars at the time. It's a very progressive bill that practically lashes out and destroys corruption in government purchases. But when we accepted him, a national MP was introduced. Then, when we were preparing him for the signature of the legal office, we saw that there were some problems in the government, legal problems. And we voted on the committee for the table that was given to you, where we're cleaning up all these inconsistencies and inaccuracies. So it's a very big request for the bill to be signed by the head of Parliament and the President, it's coming from April 1st, all factions and groups of parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u74	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I ask once again all national deputies to take their seats. You and I have approved the draft Law 3559 on Public Procurement. Because there are disagreements between articles, legal ones, I cannot sign them. I ask you now to support these amendments in the 131st article and give me the opportunity as the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this law, to send it to the President for signature so that he can enter into force in time and regulate public procurement. So please, colleagues, take your seats. One-hundred-and-thirty-first, ready to vote? Ready? Ready? Signal vote, article 131 of the Public Procurement Act. Signal vote, please. Vote. [[11:52:55]] For 202 Okay. Let's do that, I'm asking everyone to re-examine these changes and let's vote after the break at 12:30, but I'm asking you to support and allow me to sign this law. Is it accepted? And we also have disagreements about private-public partnerships. Victor Halasyuk, please, this is what we just voted on, please inform again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u75	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, honourable fellow members of the people's deputies, we propose, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules, that two clarifications be made in the Bill 1058, which clear the legal coalitions, allow this law that we have adopted with you to be signed, started working and started investing in large infrastructure projects, in projects of public private partnership in Ukraine, this is extremely important. Just two corrections, two honourable colleagues: the words "created, built" replace the words "prohibited," the snags created and built and so belongs to the concessionaire, it's already, by law, we're just cleaning up the colossal. And secondly, it's to clear up in a position concerning exclusive jurisdiction in the courts of Ukraine, the term "according to a decision of the Supreme Council," because there are no contracts that can be entered into by the Cabinet of Ministers as decided by the Supreme Council. This amendment was made when a vote was applied. That's why we're cleaning it up, because it's an inadequacy of the Constitution. At the same time, I would like to point out that the amendment that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik made: that the State may refuse judicial immunity solely by decision of the Supreme Council, it is preserved. Therefore, I ask you to support that text, which has been made clear under article 131 of the Rules, in order for this law to be adopted and worked. The State's private partnership is one of the key, priority instruments for investing in a state that foreign investors are waiting for and that will allow for a change in the country's economic situation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm also asking you to support this amendment, and it will allow you to sign this law. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The amendment that I announced on the 131st Victor Halasyuk. Please. Ready to vote? Let's support it. Please all support the amendment. Please vote. Please support everyone: public private partnership, investment. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:56:21]] For 222 Colleagues, the proposal for 131 articles, please support. Vote. Back at 131, please. Vote, Vita. Suitable for submission, yes. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:56:50]] For 223 Colleagues, let's vote. Dear colleagues, once again, I stress that this is about the inaccuracies that we have to reconcile with the decision, the committee that is signed and handed down. The point is, I ask everyone to support me, 131 articles. Ready to vote? Please support, please vote. [[11:57:51]] For 215 Thank you. We'll come back to that. All right, thank you, Your Honor, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, before I announce my recess, I want to read out the application. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Tomenka Mikli Volodymyrovic from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko" according to his application. Thank you, Your Honor, for your recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall so we can start our work. We're going to need at least 150 votes to consider a reduced procedure. Please come into the hall, take your jobs, please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the factions to call the deputies into the hall in two minutes. Please come into the hall, colleagues, take your seats. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote, and the time allocated for recess is over. Colleagues, can we start our work? Please take your seats. Who hasn't come in from the towers, please come into the hall, we're starting work now. Dear colleagues, we have the following bill on a daily basis, this is the first reading, this is the draft of the Law on the State Flag of Ukraine and there is a request, a proposal from authors and developers that we consider it as a reduced procedure. So I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm asking you to take the job and support this proposal. Please, colleagues, come in, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! So I would like everyone to support the proposal for a simplified procedure for the Ukrainian State Flag Bill 3334. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[12:44:20]] For-95 Not everyone's in the hall yet, I understand. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come in. I'll re-suppose a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, we'll follow the full procedure of the bill. So I'm re-voting the motion for a brief motion for a draft law on the State Flag of Ukraine number 3334. Please vote, please support the review of the summary procedure on the State Flag of Ukraine. The National Flag of Ukraine, back up! [[12:46:00]] For 118 It's very simple, I'm going to put it again, if it doesn't work, we're going to go through the full procedure and many of the bills that are on the table today, we're just not going to get to them. If there is no political will, we will follow full procedure. I'm going to put again now who's in the room, please take part in the vote, no votes, let's go after the full procedure. So once again, I am proposing a simplified procedure for the draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine (number 3334). Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[12:46:57]] For-138 Thank you. Again? Did anyone miss it? Then come in, call a colleague, I'll put it again. Please come into the hall. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, from the towers. At the request of the MPs who have not arrived, I'll put it again. Please come in. Call a colleague. Please, colleagues, we're leaving the briefings, we're going back to work. We're back, aren't we? Now, colleagues, focus! I'll put the vote back on the reduced procedure. Please support the simplified procedure. You're ready, aren't you? Once again, I am voting on the draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine (number 3334) to review the reduced procedure. Please prepare, vote. Can I have your back, please? [[12:48:46]] For-149 Colleagues, well, these are basic things of discipline in the workplace. Well, somewhere, someone would afford it for teaching or any other activity -- not to be at work. Colleagues, let's save time, I'll re-set, short-term procedure, draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine" (3334). Please vote. Please support, 3334, summary procedure. Please. [[12:49:43]] For a hundred and Decision taken. But we lost 15 minutes just to get together in the hall. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Sewastian Natalia Ilarionovna. Please. May I have everyone's attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u78	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Flag of Ukraine, which was developed by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with section 6 of article 20 and section 4 of section 2 of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that the description of State symbols, the order of their use and protection shall be established solely by the laws of Ukraine. Thus, the project contains provisions on the description of the State Flag, identifies the cases of the establishment of the State Flag, the characteristics of its establishment at the same time as flags of foreign states, as well as the characteristics of the use of the State Flag by a peacekeeping contingent, peacekeeping personnel, and foreign diplomatic institutions. In addition, the draft Law establishes the general order of use of the State Flag of Ukraine and its image, in particular that the State Flag of Ukraine may be used with respect to this Law by Ukrainian citizens, foreigners and citizens. and non-citizens in Ukraine, as well as enterprises, institutions and organizations, regardless of the form of ownership, political parties, trade unions and social associations. In addition, the draft Law proposes that images of the State Flag may be used as the basis and element of the national awards of Ukraine, the emblems, the passport forms of a Ukrainian citizen, the passport of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad, diplomatic and service documents. The bill proposes to establish the State Flag Day of Ukraine – August 23rd, as well as an oath of allegiance to Ukraine and the State Flag of Ukraine. Guarantees for the legal protection of the State Flag are also established. The adoption of the draft State Flag Act will facilitate the establishment, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, of a description of the State Flag and the definition of its use and protection. Please support in the first reading and, if necessary, work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u79	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Dechtirczuk, yes, yes. Dekhtarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u80	Dear Society, you will be mindful of the draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee considered the above-mentioned bill at its meeting on December 9, 2015. The bill proposes to address the issue of the use and legal protection of the State Flag of Ukraine. Olena Volkova, the expert board, in its conclusion, expressed doubts about the appropriateness of adopting a special law that would establish the description and order of the use of only one of the state symbols of Ukraine, the State Flag of Ukraine, instead of the adoption of a single law on all the national symbols of Ukraine. In this regard, the Chief Expert Office proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development for the first reading. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice concludes that the bill does not conflict with the Constitution. The European Integration Committee concludes that the bill does not belong to the priority areas of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation or is regulated. or regulated by national legislation of EU member states. It should be borne in mind that the committee is constantly approached by the citizens of Ukraine in the description of the State Flag of Ukraine and the need for the adoption of the Law on the State Flag. The need to adopt such a law stems from the text of the Constitution of Ukraine part 6 of article 20, which defines that the description of the State symbols of the country, the order of their use, is established by law, which is adopted at least as two thirds of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. Over the past 15 years, Ukrainian State Flag Bills have been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council. For various reasons, however, these bills did not become laws. My colleagues and I have come to the conclusion that we should finally close this gap in legal regulation. On the basis of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend Bill 3334 to the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading review. The bill, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u82	The bill proposes to establish administrative responsibility for the abuse of the national symbol of Ukraine, the State flag of Ukraine. So there are gaps, but they can be worked out between the first and the second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please sign up for the performance. Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u84	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u85	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I fully support the idea that we need to establish a clear order of use of the State Flag. But I would like to remind you that in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, we have approved state symbols. State symbols, apart from the State Flag, are also the State Hymn, as well as the State Herb. So I have a proposal: let's work out with the government, with the deputy corps, one comprehensive bill that will apply to the order of use of all the national symbols of Ukraine, as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, and we will not choose one of the state symbols and adopt a special law on it. Of course, I say once again, the initiative is right, but this problem needs to be solved in a complex, deciding on all the national symbols of Ukraine. And that's exactly how I would suggest that we move both to the government and to the deputy corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u87	Thank you. The distinguished Ukrainian national MPs, a respected Ukrainian community, are a very important bill that has now been tabled for consideration. Because the Constitution of Ukraine clearly and clearly provides for a settlement of the issue of the establishment of State symbols and, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, these issues are governed by the laws of Ukraine, which are to be adopted by two-thirds of Parliament's votes. So let's isolate the issue now and settle the issue of the State Flag, in my opinion, it's not valid. It would be right now to work on a serious Ukrainian Law on State Symbols, because when you read this bill, I have questions. What difference does it make that the State Flag may be installed or raised in the positions of buildings? The second question is making an oath when the students, the students, make an oath of allegiance to Ukraine and the State Flag, and the state symbols of Ukraine. These issues must be settled because, for example, if you look at the Constitution of Ukraine, there is the word "fatherland" in the texts. Why is it that the word "fatherland" and the interpretation of this term are not in the Constitution of Ukraine or in other laws? Let's think about it and settle these issues. Dear colleagues, and most important. See, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of January 28, 1992 is in force. Please take a look at the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the symbol that seems to be the flag of Ukraine, which is above the presidency. So I'm reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree that the National Flag is a rectangular canvas, which consists of two straight across the width of horizontal strips, the upper blue, the lower yellow. So let the Supreme Council of Ukraine show us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u88	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u89	May the Supreme Council of Ukraine set an example and bring the Ukrainian State Flag into line with the Ukrainian legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u90	Novak Natalia Vasilovna, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u91	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, I support my colleagues' previous speeches. Why? Because Ukraine has independence, but unfortunately we have not yet passed laws on the national symbols of Ukraine. Instead, today we're breaking the notion of "the state symbols of Ukraine" by separately breaking the Law on the State Flag of Ukraine. Although the Constitution clearly states that the use of State symbols is regulated by law. We still have a lot of laws. which regulates the different directions. And we need to cut down laws so that one problem is settled in the same law. So I think today we have to return this law and pass the law, where all the state symbols of the flag, the anthem and the coat of arms will be clearly regulated. So that's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, all who wanted to speak on the bill. Unfortunately, I see there is no common position in the voting room in the first reading. So we have two proposals: one is a signal vote to see how many supporters of this bill are there. If supporters are not enough, leave them in the "earlier discussed" section. And the second possible proposal is to vote to return the committee or the subject of the legislative initiative to work. I would like the committee to take a position on how it proposes to proceed in this situation to the Supreme Council. So turn on Dechtirczuk Alexander, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u93	Dear Society, with regard to all the comments that have been made today, yes, indeed, there is a question of the complexity of the adoption of such a bill. The committee now registers a comprehensive bill for all symbols, including the use of the State Hymn, its order and other symbols of Ukraine, using a small coat of arms. But in this case, you can combine the first reading between the second and the second, or, if it's rejected now, it's for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u94	Thank you. So the committee is looking at both the first reading and the second reading. Let's put both one and the other proposals to the vote, and then the one that raises the required number of votes, we vote. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Is there any backup? It's a sensitive subject when we can't accept a consolidated position on the State Flag, it's gonna be rude and wrong. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please, colleagues, we're going into the hall, we're going to have a vote, we're taking jobs. Ready to vote, right? So I'm voting first on the proposal to vote in the first reading on the draft of the Law on the State Flag of Ukraine (number 3334). Whoever supports this proposal and votes in the first reading, please vote. Signal vote. 3334 first reading, please vote. [[13:02:43]] For 213 Thank you. The other one. We can base, I see, we do. Please. Can we base it? Then please come into the hall, colleagues. The committee's proposal on the basis and they have the ability to work it out and make it complex so that it applies to all the symbols, so that one law regulates the general regulation of the use of state symbols, they can do it between the first and the second reading. So, colleagues, let's mobilize, come into the hall, colleagues, take jobs. Please. We're getting ready to vote. Friends! We enter the hall, which is in the towers and I put the bill of the State Flag of Ukraine (number 3334) to the vote again. Signal vote. Please vote, signal vote. Support me. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:04:12]] For 224 Please concentrate, there are voices. We go into the hall, we take jobs. And I'm putting the bill on the State Flag of Ukraine (number 3334) on the basis, on the proposal and the recommendation of the committee, on the basis. Colleagues, they've taken up jobs and we're voting on the basis of a committee proposal. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:04:58]] For 228 Decision taken. And all we have is a recommendation to the committee: to hear all the comments that were made here in the hall and to prepare for the second reading a comprehensive and quality bill so that on a topic like the symbols of Ukraine, we don't get into a discussion. A big request and a big recommendation. Next. Yes, it's the first reading. The next draft of the law is number 3206, which is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning guarantees of social protection for certain categories of persons participating in the ATO. There is also an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support the review of the reduced procedure 3206. Please vote. [[13:05:56]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nevada, Oleg Anatoliyovich, please. Sorry, sorry, sorry. She's not. Oleg Anatolyovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u95	Honourable Ukrainian citizens, Mr. Golovo (no one), fellow members of the national MPs, today, alongside military and law enforcement officials, are directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation to protect the independence of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial unity, carrying out a division of operational security for zones to conduct an anti-terrorist operation called the Phantom of Ukraine's State Fiscal Service. By the way, this unit on Saturday was a year as it was created. Not only are employees serving at official crossings and checkpoints, but they patrol mobile groups, the collision line, including in areas where fighting is the most violent. And unfortunately, for today, this unit is dead. With a view to the social protection of co-workers in the area of operational security of the Phantom anti-terrorist operation and their family members, a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on guarantees of social protection for certain categories of persons involved in an anti-terrorist operation (registration No. 3206) is therefore being submitted for consideration. The bill proposes that the members of this unit be given the status of a participant in hostilities, which protects the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, while staying directly in the areas of the anti-terrorist operation during the course of its conduct. It is also proposed to extend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection and family members, co-workers of this unit protecting Ukraine's sovereignty, and to take direct—I stress—participation in an anti-terrorist operation, ensuring that it is carried out directly in the areas of the anti-terrorist operation during the period of its conduct, and to die or perish as a result of an injury.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u96	Please finish, how many seconds? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u97	First of all, for the needs of those who protect our country from Russian aggression and their families. So please support this bill. There were only 500 of them, 521, 522, and one were injured. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u98	Thank you. A report by the head of the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATOs and People with Disabilities by Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The draft bill submitted to us by Law 3206 is aimed at a legislative settlement of two issues. The first is to clarify the powers of the State fiscal service during the ATO. To date, the State Fiscal Service is assigned to those bodies that are engaged in ATO only if necessary. But in fact, they are now directly parties to the ATO, and it is proposed to legislate the bills. Second. A year ago, an ATO operational security unit called the Phantom was established in the fiscal service. This unit participates directly in the ATO, but does not have the right to be a participant in hostilities or persons with disabilities of war. The bill proposes to remedy this omission and to grant Phantom to members of the military and persons with disabilities of war. The Committee on Veterans and Fighters, members of the ATO, considered Bill 3206 on 4 November. But given the comments made to the bill in time for its inclusion in the agenda of the session, the Committee reviewed the bill on 7 December and recommended that the Supreme Council should adopt it as a law as a whole. But with such an amendment, in paragraphs 2 and 3 of section 1 of section 1 of the First Bill, the words “tax police” are replaced by the words “Deployment of the operational security of the anti-terrorist operation zones”. Thus, we are moving away from the fact that all taxpayers will receive ATO certificates, and only those directly in the conflict zone. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office is to be taken as a basis. Please support the bill and adopt it as a law as a whole. In general, it's like the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard from this bill of clarification, both the authors and the committee. There's a question. There are problems. The need for discussion, please tell me. There is a need to discuss. Please sign two for, two against. Please record two for, two for against. Please. Bakulin Eugene, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u101	I give the floor to Royal Natale.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! The drafters propose that decisions are indeed very important today. And assign status to participants in hostilities: tax police officers, fiscal officials who serve directly in the ATO zone. But in our view, the most important thing for the human being is not when he is assigned a status, the most important for the human being — when this status is guaranteed, indeed, by a social guarantee, both financial and, where necessary, by a normative protection and support pact. What's going on today? Our Government has systematically violated those laws that Parliament has adopted. When Parliament decides on the need to support veterans, persons with disabilities, participants in an anti-terror operation, the Government then decides, and the Parliament has unfortunately voted in favour of such a decision in the 2016 budget, that all payments will be managed manually as a result of how much money will be in the State budget. And you and I understand very well whatever decisions we make here today, and whatever promises we make to the participants of today's anti-terrorist operation, then the Government will hand-in-hand deprive them of those payments, and people will remain with nothing. The second decision, which was also adopted in the 2016 budget, that a number of social welfare programmes, through local councils, have been reduced through budget funding, with an increase in the number of ATO participants today. The Opposition Unit therefore insists that we first review the budget for 2016 and ensure full implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u103	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u104	We have fully secured all the necessary social guarantees that we have already promised and that have already been adopted by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u105	Olena Shkrum, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u106	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is a really important bill that regulates. corrects the situation when we have people in the Anti-Terrorism Operation, who are involved in the Anti-Terrorism Operation, who have people dying in their units, and they're not one, not two, not three people, but they don't have ATO status. So this bill really provides for the possibility of such corresponding statuses under the special assignment of the State Fiscal Service, which has been active in the ATO area. So I'm asking this bill to support, it's extremely small, very small costs from the state budget, but it means a lot to us to protect those people who are protecting our state. But I would also like to go to Mr. Tretyakov's Committee on veterans and participants in the ATO and say that the committee has to perform a control function and look very seriously and make sure that really all ATO participants are not paid in full. No delays and full volumes. And this bill vote, it corrects our mistakes with you. And we need to move on and carefully correct other mistakes. Well, for example, we need to talk about expanding the number of people who claim to be a member of the ATO. And what I'm talking about here is, first of all, volunteers from search and exhumation organizations, for example, the Black Tulip public organization, which has no official status at all today, even though it has also lost people in the ATO, has taken part in it, and has been taking our heroes out of there who have died there. So I'd like the committee to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u107	Thank you. Lapin Igor, People's Front. To the rostrum, please. A member of the ATO, who will tell the truth about this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this law. And in principle, it's pretty good in itself if it applies only to those people who are directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation and can become involved in combat. But I warn you, we've already got more bad guys in the state than they deserve. And what assurance do we see in this law? I think this bill, if we're already talking about adopting it, well, at least on the first reading, why? Because I didn't see a fuse in it. A person can be given an order, a command, and we have tomorrow, including the illustration, half of the DFS will go there to get rid of the illustration and become a participant in combat. I'm pointing out that this bill is good for the Phantom Unit, which we're talking about here, who are really struggling with smuggling. But I remind everyone how our brothers died fighting smuggling, and I didn't see any results and reports from this unit. If we're fighting smuggling, I want to see what's done. And to go in, to command, to gain status, to get away from the illustration -- we've already got a lot of these wells for the commission. And unfortunately, 90 percent of the bad guys who got away from the illustration are due to the status of a fighter. So what I'm saying is that the bill is good, but it's really good for real fighters. But I couldn't find a fuse in it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u109	Chicken Maxime, Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u110	I ask you to pass the word from the rostrum to the national MP Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u111	Please, Andrew Antonishtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I don't think there's gonna be a person in that room who'd give me the love of taxpayers. But I'm asking you to support this bill now. There's a special division called Phantom that's actually dealing with smuggling on the line of delimitation. I've bumped into these guys a lot. We went from Stanica Lugansk to Happiness to the Zeros, and we showed a lot of things. There are fuses. Here, in particular, it says, as my friend Igor Lapin said there are no fuses, there's-- here's a reference to replace the words "allegic militia" with the words "operational security units for anti-terrorist operations." We can't say one structure right now, let's say "The Phantom," because another unit is going to be created tomorrow, and we're going to have to make some changes to the bill again. And the last. Now, in these moments, there's a ceiling to honor our brother Andrew, who died along with the battle of the Phantom Special. So I would like to ask you, who cares, who has a state-owned approach and a state-of-the-art attitude, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u113	Thank you. Merry Christmas, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u114	Self-help supports the adoption of this bill because, at present, the DFS is not a subject of the fight against terrorism, regardless of the fact that the Phantom unit is carrying out its duties directly in the area of combat and in the area of CER, CERP and mobile groups. At the moment, the DFS does not have its own representative on the interdisciplinary commission for the status of a participant in combat, so they are not able to obtain status and benefit from ATO participants. This law will establish justice, for military servicemen who carry out their service on the roadblocks, for example in Kramatorsk, may be granted the status of a participant in hostilities, and those who are directly on the collision line do not have that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u115	Thank you. And Maxim Burbak, the People's Front, and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I once again urge everyone to support this bill, and all critics would like to invite it. Last Saturday was the anniversary of this Phantom team, and we had a conversation with the fighters. Still, let us correct the sad errors that have accumulated, atone for our sins, and let us accept and give them the opportunity to gain the status of participants in combat in the ATO zone. Thank you. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Still head of the committee, give me 30 seconds to head the Committee of Trelyaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u118	Once again, I ask you to support the bill as a basis and as a whole with the Committee's rights. For the transcript, I read out the Committee's agenda. In paragraphs 2 and 3 of section 1 of the draft law, replace the words “tax police” with the words “operational security of anti-terrorist zones”. And with this right, vote on the basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u119	Thank you. I think that's exactly what Alexander Tretlyakov read for the transcript, and she's taking off the warnings that Igor Lapin was talking about. and it regulates that it is those who are directly involved in the collision line that can become participants in the ATO. Friends, the fight against smuggling is one of the most important tasks today on the line of distinction, where the dirty and businessmen and the actors try to use war for their own wealth. We need to strengthen our boys, strengthen those people like Andrew, the light of memory, the defense fighter of Maidan, who died in the fight against smuggling. So I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. It's one of those votes that you can't be on the outside, you can't be indifferent, because it depends on how much we can overcome smuggling and corruption where our best guys give their lives for Ukraine. Ready? Is everyone in the hall? Please come in, have a seat. They took up jobs. I'm still going to put up a vote. Come in, company, come in, sit down. And I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on guarantees of social protection for certain categories of ATO participants (No. 3206) for a signal vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. 3206, signal vote. Please. [[13:24:36]] For 227 Colleagues, we come in, we take jobs. And I would like to propose to the voting committee a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning guarantees of social protection for certain categories of ATO participants (number 3206) on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the amendment that the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Tretlyakow, has made for the transcript in the hall. Please be supportive. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[13:25:25]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you to the developers, the committee, for the quality of your work. Our next bill is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the provision of proper medical services for military personnel. And there is also an offer from the committee to consider it in a simplified procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. It is also a law that supports our military personnel. Please vote and please support the 3137, summary procedure. Vote. [[13:26:14]] For 172 Decision taken. Again, I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Nedav Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u120	Dear friends, this law also touches what we just voted on, it's a Phantom unit. I'm going to say very briefly that during the fighting and in the service of eight employees of this unit, they were injured. And they, like all those who carry out the service, defend our country, should have the right to provide proper medical care. And we propose in this law. Sounds like the Supreme Council Order of 29. Act (No.1286) "To provide adequate medical care to military personnel and members of the military and superior forces who have suffered injuries, injuries or other health injuries during an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine." The bill proposes to include a list of persons who are entitled to free medical care, treatment, medical rehabilitation and others in the Feofania Hospital of State administration of the affairs of those who carried out their duties in the conflict zone and in the area of anti-terrorist operation. So I'm asking you to support this bill, because all those people have the right to proper medical care, they're also injured, and they have the same injuries as the WSU fighters in Ukraine, and the troops, and the battalions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u121	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Alexander Yuriovich, is invited to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! First, I want to correct my colleague, not a bill, but a Supreme Council ruling. The substance of the decree and the bill suggests that we allow the participants to fight, who will already be, the “Fantome” that we voted on the previous bill, to be treated in “Feofania”. And according to the ruling in force, number 1286, of 20. In the 14th year, this decree already describes all units that can be treated in Feofania. Since we have just passed the Phantom Act, we are making an addition to this order to the Phantom Unit. This Order of the Supreme Council is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, both Minust and Minust, and the State Fiscal Service, and the State Administration of the Office of the President. I ask him to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u123	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this bill is actually a continuation and complement to the previous one that introduces workers. And that's why there's a proposal that compares it to other categories of ATO participants. So is the proposal accepted without discussion to vote? Roger that. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, who is in the towers, please take your jobs. There's a need for discussion, isn't there? Head of the committee, I would like to emphasise that there should be a discussion. I think we're going to give it eight minutes painlessly and we're going to drag down other bills in their adoption. Please sign in, two for, two against, please. This, colleagues, is a precious time that we spend questioning the adoption of such bills. You know, it's just for understanding each other. Scissor, please. A radical party. He's handing Oleg the can, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support this bill. Everything about strengthening the security of the country, increasing the military's resilience, social protection of military personnel, volunteers, representatives of other law-abiding military formations involved in the free war against the Russian occupation on our Donbassy is supported by both hands. But I would like to draw attention to two facts that draw the attention of all the patriots of Ukraine and of the concerned citizens. Today, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Anatoly Matios, made a statement stating that the Right Sector was an illegal military formation. I would ask the Deputy Attorney General and any official before making any loud statements to think first about what statements they make. When the Russian plague came to Donbas two years ago, when the mints, prosecutors and judges, in the vast majority, betrayed the country, betrayed the country, moved to the side of the enemy, in the back, handed over our patriots, then both the Right Sector, and the volunteers, and the Oz, and the Donbas, and all the others, then they were needed to protect the country: and the battalion of the Holy Virgin Mary, and the Tornado Battalion, and all the other units. Today, when these volunteers at the cost of their lives, at the cost of slaughtering their own country, we now call them illegal military formations. Semenchenka is denied the title of captain because you see he got it wrong. Yeah, because those guys were there and they were fighting them, not the captains, but the generals. And for those generals who grew up on the floor, take them to the ranks to complain to the soldiers and to dig the trenches to the front. So I demand that I respect the volunteers, the people who, at the call of the heart, went out to protect the country, not to hide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Jurik Taras Zinovyovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u126	Please pass the word to the national MP Barney Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! After all, each one of us who was in the ATO and now, when I'm monitoring what's going on in the country, especially with regard to veterans of the Anti-Terrorism Operation, has found that a lot of officials who had nothing to do with the fighting have nothing to do with the Anti-Terrorism Operation of the so-called gastrolers, or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the ministries, or other executive authorities. Those who did not have weapons and were not secured by the fighting squad were granted the status of a participant in the fighting. And this is now a serious issue that we need to solve and we are witnessing that many people who went voluntarily in the early days to protect a country that wasn't related to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, whether to the IMF, or to the BSS, the military units couldn't get this status because of the inadequacy of legislation. And that's why these units of the fiscal service that are in the first line of defense, the direct collisions that this Phantom unit is actually fighting on two fronts: they're directly defending our country from the separatist plague, the Moscow mercenaries, and by the way, they're being shot in the back. A contra that makes money in war by smuggling. So these guys, as no one deserves to be, not only get into martial law, but they also need to receive proper treatment in order to carry on properly the task of fighting. And on this point, what I want to say is that regardless of whether you belong to a military unit -- the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the BSS, or the National Guard or the fiscal service, all those who carried out a military task with weapons in the first line of direct collision defence should be given the status of a participant in combat or a voluntary battalion. And it's going to be a bill that you all have to support, and who's wrongly received, who's been hiding and in tourists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u128	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u129	And those who entered the ATO zone for their tourist gastrolers, for their gastropods, should be deprived of that status. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u130	Ivan Kirilenko, the Motherland Union. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, you must take the floor and pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u131	I give the word to Rybczyn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u132	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u133	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. "Paternality" will support this bill in an unanimity manner, just as we have supported the past. The Fatherland has individuals who know these soldiers at Phantom, and we know about their feats. So, personally, thank you for protecting the borders of my own daughter. But there is one observation of such a technical, general order, as in this bill, and in the past there is no information on financial and economic accounting, to confirm the need for additional expenditure from the state budget. And it was in order to increase the institutional capacity of parliament yesterday through the German government, the British government of the respective GAZ funds and. and Westminster Foundation for Democracy was opened by the Financial and Economic Analysis Office of the Supreme Council. There are experts who have broken down the office of analysis, as is the German Parliament, at the British Parliament, in order to help parliamentarians make calculations, to make analytical reports, in order to improve the quality of parliamentaryism. That's why I'm proposing that we go to this office to make our bills much better. And I support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u134	Thank you. Royal, Opposition Block. Then Oleg Long. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Both myself and the Opposition Unit, we always support the strengthening of the social protection of Ukrainian citizens. But I would like to reiterate your concern that we cannot in any way maintain social security solely on paper. We need to set up a working group in Parliament today and prepare changes to the State budget so that all those promises made by Parliament, all those adopted social protection laws, are included in the budget. And people did not hear our love and care for them in words, but so that those who returned today from hostilities would know that they would be guaranteed a social protection package by turning to social services. So far, that's all talk. We therefore insist that all the social guarantees that have been issued be audited and that all laws be fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u136	Thank you. Olesi Long, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u137	People's Deputies, The Will of the People. Dear colleagues, we certainly support this and previous bill, but we are paying attention to this: in order for these bills, important social bills, not just to remain on paper, but to be implemented, we need to find not only the expense but also the income part of the budget. And in order for it to be found, we need to look at how we just failed the Law 1058 on State Private Partnership, by our colleague Halasyuk, and 3559 on technical changes in public procurement. Both one and the other laws, if adopted, will provide billions of additional savings for our budget, which can be adjusted according to the laws that we have just voted on. So please, fellow believers, let us vote not only on the laws that, you know, unite the hall around what we promise others, but also on those who will be able to find money for it. Therefore, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u138	Ten seconds – finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u139	So, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to find an opportunity to reinstate the two laws 3559 and 1058 during our meeting today in order for them to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u140	Thank you. Thus, a discussion law was discussed. We can vote now, right? Please, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Once again, this bill is actually an extension of the previous one and it only introduces a new category to those who have the right to benefit from treatment in Feofania. I'm asking you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm voting on draft regulation 3137, and I'm voting on it as a whole. Please vote, vote. [[13:40:42]] For 238. Thank you. And I'm already putting a full vote on the draft Ordinance amending Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1286-VII on ensuring proper medical care for military and military personnel and personnel of the military and superior ranks who have suffered injuries, injuries or other health injuries during the conduct of the ATO in eastern Ukraine (number 3137) on the basis of and in general. Colleagues, we vote, please, on the basis of a total of 3137. [[13:41:28]] For 237 Decision taken. And let's move on to the next bill. We do not have much time, but there are two important bills to support our soldiers. And I also have a request for the next bill: to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. This is a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, 3150. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Review of the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:42:18]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee to report on the issues of veterans, participants in combat, ATO participants and people with disabilities from Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u141	Respectable People's Deputies, the main objective of the consideration of Law 3150, is to strengthen the social protection of members of the families of the dead ATO and Heroev Celestial Sotna. To this end, it is proposed to amend the Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees for their Social Protection and to grant members of the families of the dead ATO and the Heroes of the Sky Saturday the right to benefits in the payment of housing and utilities, without taking into account the income of the family. At the current rate in 2015, this amount did not exceed 1 000 710 bracelets, the minimum income. Since 2016, a standard of 4,000 130 bracelets has been introduced. But the majority of families who have died have the issue of housing and utilities through the subsidy system. But the many appeals that come to the committee give rise to the conclusion that it is important for these people to understand that the State appreciates the promotion of their dead husbands and sons in protecting Ukraine, including through the granting of this benefit. The implementation of this bill does not impose significant financial burdens on the budget, but is of great moral importance. To date, we know that some 3,000 of our fighters have died in the ATO zone. Therefore, for the budget, once again, this is not burdensome. The Committee therefore requests the adoption of a bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Ukrainian National Deputy Royal Natalia Juryevna, an alternative bill will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, you know, I am absolutely sure that the person who protects his homeland must be sure that, despite the Prime Minister's name and surname, despite who today's Deputy High Council, he must be sure that his country, his country, his country, his country will not abandon, give up and change. What have we seen with you over the last few years? On the one hand, packages of benefits are taken, on the other hand, people who protected our homeland during the Great Fatherland, during Chernobyl, are now depriving internationalist soldiers of everything. And perhaps the most humiliating norm that has been adopted is when veterans, participants in the ATOs, families of the dead were forced to go to the register of incomes and walk shamefully in the offices, proving that your family, your loved ones, that you were protecting and protecting your family. Therefore, the Opposition Unit believes that we are simply obliged to correct those mistakes that have been made, and today we are simply obliged, not only for the ATO participants, but for all veterans, to abolish this shameful norm of limiting social security according to the income of the family. Similarly, we insist that those in the rear who have protected their Family, those in the war, those who have special merit before the Family must also have the right to full and full social security. Colleagues, no other country has become rich and prosperous as a result of taking and paying off its heroes. Therefore, we ask you to support our bill and return all guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, there has been a performance. And from the committee now, right? Maybe two for me, two for me.? Okay, from the committee, Trelyakow. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u145	You know, I've listened to a heated speech by the former Party of Regions and the Opposition Block, which wants to significantly increase the benefits. But I want to say that what is happening today in the East of Ukraine is thanks to you. As a result, veterans and disabled persons had to be cared for, and veterans and disabled persons had to be cared for before these dictatorships began. And what you set on fire was set on fire in the East. Therefore, the Committee's decision to support the following. To adopt Bill 3150 as a basis and as a whole, the bill that I have reported as co-sponsor and to reject the bill proposed by the Queen (3151). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we talking? There is a need to discuss, I see. Please sign up for two, two for the other. Please record two for, two against. Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u147	Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front, 119 constituency. The entire People's Front will support this Bill No. 3150. And I urge everyone to vote, support, and have repeatedly faced this problem, because, as they said, this rule, that 1,700 dollars of total income and all those guys died on the front that now parents, wives can't use those benefits as a participant in combat, dead. So I ask you to back everyone up and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u148	Thank you. This was said by an ATO participant who knows the problem from the inside, Mikhailo Bondar, the National Guard. And please listen to his position. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, Petra Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u149	Please give the floor to Deputy Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u150	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Well, honourable colleagues, it is clear that all the bills are aimed at social protection for ATO participants, war veterans. There is a clear need for support. But at the same time, I want to focus on one issue that is not being systematically addressed within the entire state. We have adopted legislation that obliges local self - government authorities to allocate land to ATO participants. And in particular, in my district, it's practically none of them. No human can separate such land from one another. This is a serious problem, and if they do, they stand out in places that are not fit for living. And I think we need to settle other issues along with this law, because they're addressing individuals, and they're addressing ATOs in a mass way with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u151	Thank you. Dudenkov Alexander, "The Opposition Block", tells the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I call on the men in our hall, and we have most of them in the hall, remain men, remain advocates, and do not occasionally fall into such a low and cheap controversy. We are now considering a very important law -- the law behind which are tens of thousands of veterans, heroes, really winners. And in order for us to find a compromise solution today, we must not share parties and not share veterans today after years of war. And we must unite in order to correct the mistakes that you have made, the coalition, in this room. Therefore, the Opposition Block, unlike many diletters in this room, will vote in favour of both the first and the second bills in order to reach a solution. And it's not emotion that's important here, it's results. And it is important for all of us today: to protect not only veterans, not only participants, but also the families of those who have died, to protect those who have worked in the rear of those who are now in their 90 ’ s! And we're driving them to get their credentials and papers. This bill is not worth billions or even hundreds of millions. This bill stands for our conscience, as grandchildren, children and grandchildren of those who have protected our homeland. Therefore, I appeal to you: let us vote in the first reading both for the first and for the second law, and for the second reading we will draw up a comprehensive bill that will correct those mistakes that have been made. And that our grandfathers, our fathers, make our veterans feel calm and confident in our country with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I'm just, you know, we've got eight more minutes and we can discuss bills for another 20 minutes, and that just puts the following bills at risk and doubt. Okay? It's important that we do. Vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. And I'm making a proposal to the committee, according to the Rules First Committee. I remind you, the 3,150 committee is offering to take as a basis and in general, this is the position of the Consolidated Committee, and I'm going to put it to the vote first. So I'm voting for a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Signal vote, please vote, vote, colleagues. [[13:53:53]] For 222 There's support for the committee's position. I ask you to be more careful, come into the hall, take your jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, come in, take jobs, vote. I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to increase the social protection of family members by 3150 on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please support, please vote, colleagues, vote. Careful, my friends, careful. [[13:54:46]] For 231 Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors. Welcome to the committee for its quality work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u154	Dear fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, in connection with the removal of disagreements under Law 1058, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules, I invite you to the words of Victor Halasyuk, in effect, please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to support you, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules, the two amendments that remove the conflict in Bill 1058, which you and I have already adopted as a whole. One: in the amendments to article 12, part 3, of the Act on Concessions, replace the words “created within” with the words “produced according to conditions”. And secondly, in the amendment to article 77, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Law on International Private Law, the words "in the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" should be deleted. These rights will allow the President of the Supreme Council to sign this bill and so that the President does not have to impose a veto on him because of such a simple conflict. So, dear colleagues, these amendments are consistent with the Ministry of Economics, with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. They're also, we've consulted with the authors of the amendments, in fact, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic is fully supported by the editor. Let the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship issue this bill for it to work. 1058 state private partnership, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Was Victor Halasyuk's proposal for an amendment, shall we vote? Let's vote. Take your seats, this will allow you to sign the law. Are you guys ready? I ask you to support this amendment for 131 articles, we vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:57:48]] For 219 Colleagues, 219 votes. Please concentrate, please, I can see. Please concentrate, we'll make this technical correction. It's about privacy. State-private partnership and investment. I'm asking everyone to back me up, and this will allow me to sign this Act and send it to the President. Ready? Please support me. If you'll excuse me, Your Honor, let's vote. Vote, Your Honor, please. Please be supportive. [[13:58:41]] For 225 Colleagues! Logwinsky! I see, I see. These proposals are not discussed. 131 article, we made a proposal, disagreed with the committee's decision, and signed the law. Please vote, please support everyone, this is an important question. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:59:18]] For 227 And on. Honorable colleagues, and this one. On this one. I want to announce the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare it closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-02-m0.u157	Heroim Slava! Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth session will be opened at 4:00 p.m. So I invite everyone to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, and we will continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor.
