ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats, prepare for the vote. Before we get started, I'm sorry. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of our work. Please come in, we're busy. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration, colleagues? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:05:44]] 329 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We welcome the Prime Minister and our government. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, our colleague, Lilia Mikhailovna Greenevich. Mrs. Lilia, welcome to your birthday. Success, firmness, and the same energy on your hard work. [[Applause]] And today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Vladislav Volodymyrovich Sevrukov. Welcome to our fellow national MP. [[Applause]] Friends, this night in Stockholm, our countrymate Jamala went to the final of the European Song Contest. Congratulations to Jamal. We want her to win the final. The suffering of the Crimean Tatar people, which Jamal sings, is close to all the Ukrainians who, like the Crimean Tatars of the 44th year, suffered from eviction and political repression. And I hope that Eurovision 2017 will take place in Kiev. Let me remind you that the final will be May 14th. I call upon all of us to be in pain for our singer, and all of our foreign country, all of the world's Ukraine, to vote for Jamal. Colleagues, today, according to the Rules, we will start working from hours of questions to the government. But traditionally, the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a statement from two MP factions: "Radical Party" and "self-help" requiring a recess. But they made a responsible decision to replace the break from the rostrum. That's why I'm giving the floor to Oleg Lazka's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to inform Ukrainian citizens how our authorities are fighting corruption. This morning, a letter of inquiry came to our fellow national MP, Andrew Artemenko, about some of the other fictions on quick criminal cases. He is being questioned for 11 hours today, although he has to work as a national MP on this day in parliament. Yesterday, Mother received an interview with our national deputy, Sergio Rybalka, in Ukraine. According to my information, there are several other criminal cases against the people's deputies of the Radical Party, about which our newly elected Attorney General will report loudly here, which are the corrupters of the Radical Party. I have a question for you, fellow MPs, especially for those who have fun, do we really believe that all corruption in the Radical Party, that the fight against corruption in Ukraine begins and ends with the Radical Party and our deputies? I want to answer you. I address the Head of Parliament, I address those who fake criminal cases. If you think that way you can scare us, you can demoralize us or break the team, in vain of hope, pour salt in one place. We will fight for every Ukrainian. We understand why our deputies are being questioned today. Because the President doesn't like us blocking the rostrum for the fourth day, demanding the establishment of a commission of inquiry in the Offshore Parliament. Because Groissman doesn't like that we're asking him to stop robbing people and pay the price for gas. We realize that not everyone likes us, but it does not scare us. Because we know that the power that robs millions of Ukrainians has to be resisted. Resisting this plundering corrupt power of the Radical Party. I'm sorry that neither the Anti-Corruption Office nor the Attorney General sees corruption in the actions of the President, nor in the actions of his environment, nor in the actions of the Minister of Finance, the director of three offshore companies, nor in the actions of the head of the National Bank, who steals billions of dollars in bills and hides these billions in offshores with Russian bankers. But they see corruption in our deputies. That's not where you guys are looking! Corruption is power. Abuse is power, not opposition. That's why we're not afraid. We keep blocking the rostrum. I demand that the Head of Parliament give us, as opposition, an opportunity to exercise our right: put to the vote the question of creating an inquiry committee, which requires 150 votes. Have respect for the deputies who block the parliamentary rostrum on the fourth day. Have respect for the Ukrainians who are being robbed by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u3	Thank you. I just want to remind you that on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that factions' heads would give a consistent text to the TSC, and I'll put it to the vote. Unfortunately, I didn't get it until today, so I'm going to have to do something to make this text appear and be signed by the factions' heads. Now, according to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday. The procedure for conducting the "hour of questions to the Government" as defined in section 4 of Rule 229 of the Rules. And I remind you, first 30 minutes for performances and then 30 minutes for questions from MPs. And I invite you to a speech by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, Gennady Grigorovitch Zubka. In 15 minutes, you can report from the scene, Mr. Hennaday. Mr. Oleg! Mr. Gennady, if it's not hard to get out of the place because we've got a stand locked down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u4	I'm sorry about the people's deputies, but we're on our way, so I'm asking you to split up a little bit so that we can have a little chat. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief presentation right now, because there are a lot of questions about how reforms are being implemented and how to protect our citizens, not from the market price of gas, but from the excessive consumption of gas, in order to reduce these accounts and to get a completely different quality of life and services. So I suggest you run a very short reel and then go to the discussion of what we should do together. Because there are questions and responsibilities in this regard for the government, and for the assistance of Parliament, and for the involvement of Parliament also in the implementation of reforms, please. [[Video recording broadcast]] Once again, honourable national MPs, right now I would just like to draw your attention to a presentation that we have prepared so that we can clearly understand where we are right now, what we need to do together, and how we can see the way out of the situation that today is in a state with more than a moderate consumption of heat with large accounts of citizens and how everyone should do their job. You know, yesterday there was an energy efficiency forum where there were a lot of international experts speaking, and one of our experts who worked for a very long time in Ukraine, Hrzegoż Hyda said that, you know, in Ukraine they always offered to solve our issue of happiness all the time, but without our participation. And here I want to understand that no one will do anything for us, we need to move on our own, and we need to solve the issues that have accumulated over 25 years of an independent state. And the cost of cheap gas, which was from the Russian Federation, is very and very difficult now with us, so to speak, from. protects our boys in eastern Ukraine. To stand up for Ukraine, to reform and to be energy independent not only of the goodwill of a neighbor but also of our own position. Now, first slide, please turn on. Today, there is a perfectly normal concept for Ukrainian gas companies to increase their production, and the market price for gas will allow them to develop these enterprises and achieve them in the near future by 2020 an increase of production to 20 billion cubic metres. We can also talk about additional production, Ukraine's additional capacity to move into a gas-importing state into a country that can export it. But on account of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u5	Mr. Hennaday, if you'll excuse me, I'll stop you for a moment. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today, Mr. Pedro Agramunt, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, is in Ukraine with an official visit. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. President is now in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome him, friends. [[Applause]] Mr. President is a great friend of Ukraine. We met with him today, discussed the continuation of reforms against the Russian aggressor. And I am convinced that our cooperation and our alliance, and our understanding of the security of all European space, will continue to be under caution, and our cooperation will continue to be as honest and fruitful in the face of the Russian aggressor. Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Hennaday, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u6	Thank you, sir! In general, I would like all the deputies present in this room to reinstate the European Union, which has actively contributed to the development of the Energy Efficiency Fund concept, which today specifically proposes real steps towards Ukraine's material support for energy dependency, and which, together with us, deals with issues related to energy efficiency. I want to show you once again, 18 billion today consumes Ukrainian gas in multiple floors, in individual homes. Today, the losses that are in the systems that are in the buildings are over 11.5 billion cubic meters, that's the pay that we pay each year for the idleness that was 25 years old. We can see that today, not only by increasing gas production, but also by carrying out energy efficiency measures, we can reduce consumption by almost double. Next slide, please. That's what it costs us to be idle every year. Practically extra pressure on the monetary balance of payments -- about 2 billion euros -- is almost more than 30 billion dollars of annual payments to Ukrainians directly to help them overcome their poverty issues and help them pay for municipal services. And that's the cost of the government budget, which we lose every year without investing in energy efficiency, we're going to have to lose for many years, but we have to break this situation with you. Give me the next slide. I'd like to show you why these issues were not concerned earlier, how difficult it was to get in general to introduce both energy efficiency laws and the Energy Efficiency Fund. Because practically the payments they made, they were not large enough. And the money that Ukraine actually paid, and in the past, in 2015, Ukraine paid 153 billion dollars for energy subsidies, they were constantly in the shadows. It's the money that didn't go directly to the citizens, it's the money that went practically into the gas sector and disappeared where it didn't go. So today, energy efficiency is the exact path that will help a particular Ukrainian pay less for the service he is given. Next slide, please. Next. What we need to do in order to go directly to these steps. You know, last year, the government introduced a system of "hot" loans, and more than 100,000 families were able to take advantage of this program and get 20, 30 and 40 percent of the body's compensation from the state. This is a very important factor, but we need to understand that as of today, the amount of investment that this particular sector needs does not allow it to move fast. So first of all, we need to build a foundation in the form of a legislative base, we need to create an energy efficiency fund that will stimulate not only those citizens who are able today to get credit and pay for it, but also encourage those people who are now receiving subsidies and who today should also join these processes. Once again, the issue of the monetaryization of subsidies is relevant. The only thing that we give ourselves and the answer in general is that we have to first move towards the monetaryization of the remainders of subsidies that will be saved by our citizens, and in the future we have to go to full monetaryisation, but we need to prepare not only from the point of view of the system, not only in terms of legislation, but also in terms of financial stability and financial discipline of our citizens. We need to train, train, and prepare together for this process. What I'd like to talk to you, dear colleagues. Now we need to take a few very important things that are specifically designed to protect our citizens from the point of view of energy efficiency. This is the first thing I encourage everyone to support in the second reading of the Housing Services Act, which has a part of it, except that the relationship between the consumer and the service provider's responsibility is determined by the question of commercial accounting. Unable to manage what is not accounted for. We need first of all in this, and next year we need to end the issue of the calculation by the warm building counters of those people who are eating by standard today, and we want people to be able to know clearly how much they consume and how they can save. The second issue is the issue of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. Why? Because it's this law that determines how to do an audit, how to certify a housing, how to define the energy efficiency class of buildings, and what this building can do is that it can be once about being invested, but in the future it will save heat consumption. These are the things that Europe has been using for many decades, those are the things that make it possible to reduce consumption. And that's why I think we're going to take a consensus position and we're going to adopt this law. And that's what's important. This technical framework with the definition of a standard class of buildings will allow for an effective energy efficiency measure, a reduction in consumption (by either 10 or 30 or 40 percent) of a particular building, to be compensated for precisely these measures by the State. That's what the energy efficiency fund is all about. A very important issue is Act 417, which went into effect. will enter into force on 1 July 2017. I reiterate that there will be no postponement, no postponement of such reform, and it is very important for us today that Parliament support and amend the 417 law in order to bring it into line with the Housing and Social Services Act in view of the fact that we need to launch a typical contract for the manager and to hold a competition today and to make sure that our citizens don't have to worry about how we're going to provide services, how we're demonizing today only those services that are provided by housing and maintenance offices. This is also the task that lies ahead. What do we need to do more clearly? We will need to adopt the Commercial Account Act. Now I know that we are working with a working group of people's deputies to speed up the introduction of it to the Supreme Council and to accept it in the Supreme Council, and to finish the settlement issue. We did a lot in 2015. They went from 32 percent to 51 percent last year when the counters were installed. This year we're doing 81-82 percent. In the 17th year, in the first quarter, we have to put a dot on this issue and specifically allow for the calculation of heat energy. Give me the next slide, please. To do that, we need to move not only in the direction of energy efficiency, but also in the direction of the gas market, where there is now the relationship between many participants and liars, the oilgas, the Cruttransgas, the heatcommunergo. And that's why we're going to propose to Parliament the Law on the Restructuring of the Heatcommunerge Debt, on the possibility of bringing the work of these enterprises to a practical level of transparency and in order to create a normal system of investment in these enterprises. To do that, we need to make some changes to the government's regulations in order to make the accounting system completely transparent, to make payments, to make subsidies, and not to delay these financial possibilities in general, a state that today is channeling huge amounts of funds monthly towards subsidies. So this work, it's going to be directed both towards energy efficiency and towards the modernization of the HeatCommunergo and towards order of interaction between all market participants in order to make it transparent, market-oriented and allowing for competition in this market, and it's able to reduce the cost of our citizens. Next slide, please. Next slide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u8	I'd like a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u9	Allow me to finish Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u10	What exactly do we see under the introduction of the Energy Efficiency Fund? This is the fund that must be created by our international partners, the government of Ukraine, with a transparent supervisory board that will determine the policy and technical framework for the implementation of energy efficiency measures and clearly determine what measures are energy-efficient, which they provide to the citizen and which they provide for the benefit and reduction of gas consumption for the state. And it is these frameworks that will enable the implementation of this project, by identifying a specific number of funds that the State can use to compensate our citizens for the money they have invested, that will help us to work in Ukraine. This fund is practically like those funds that work today in Lithuania, in the Czech Republic, in Poland, in other countries. And I'll be honest: every country that respects itself, every country that thinks it's independent, every year invests in its energy efficiency, thus increasing its energy dependency. Let me give you an example. Such an energy-dependent state as the United States last year has practically targeted more than $12 billion in energy efficiency measures. And each country practically increases this cost annually by 10 percent each year. So we need to review our attitude at all, both as states and as every Ukrainian, and as every local self - government toward this direction. What is it that makes it possible to create a fund that makes it possible to take energy-efficient measures? Please give me the next slide. It's a huge market, it's a huge investment market that could be involved in a country. And what's important is the market, which, by involving investments, by creating new jobs, by developing a construction direction, provides an opportunity to save money for the public budget in the future each year, allowing it to go to a completely different quality of service. And most of all, we clearly understand that the energy dependency of the state is only due to energy-efficient measures. For today, I would like to show the situation that is from the point of view of the investments already made today. Next slide, please. And what we expect in the future. There are today programs of the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, today the IFP, KfW, NEFCO programme. It's practically those programs that are already operating in Ukraine, modernizing specific businesses. But businesses that provide services need to be modernised to reduce their losses and reduce their tariffs. We need to direct and create a fund today that will specifically invest in the housing sector: specifically in individual homes, in specific OSBBs, into a specific common property that is being created by our citizens today. So once again, I urge our people's deputies to join the reform process, to stress once again that our happiness for us and without our participation no one will do. And once again, I urge you to move from population to simple and decisive steps that will lead our country to energy dependency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u11	Thank you very much. Minister of Social Policy Andry Alexiyovich Reva is invited to the floor. In 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u12	Honorable National Deputies to Ukraine! First of all, I want to thank those of you who listened carefully to Gennady Georgievich. And I hope that you will listen to me carefully, too, because the information I present to you today is very interesting to both you and your voters. As the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine continues to speak, I would like to point out that the difficult decision to establish a single price for natural gas, which has been adopted and reported by Hennady Grigorovitch, is complex. The government has set a single price for all categories of consumers, but at the same time social measures have been taken to ensure targeted support for low-income households. First. During 2016, a phased double increase in social standards was foreseen, with the first phase taking place since May 1, 2016, an average of 6 percent. As a result of the increase in the subsistence minimum, there have also been increases in the size of minimum government social security, minimum wage, minimum pension, the size of assistance to disabled persons, families with children, and low - income families, insurance payments, and so forth. The next increase in the subsistence minimum is expected at the end of this year in December. On 27 April 2016, the government decided on the need to increase living minimum and minimum wage from December 2016 by 10 per cent against the previous decision, which was projected to increase by only 6 per cent. By the end of the year, the overall increase in social standards in the adoption of the bill, which has already been submitted to the Supreme Council and is even included in the agenda, will be 16.1 percent, which is more than the projected inflation rate for 2016. The other one. The bill also provides for an increase of 5 billion, 269 million dollars, in the amount of housing subsidies to the population, as the increase in gas prices according to our calculations will lead to an increase of 50 percent in subsidy recipients. Third. With a view to increasing real income, nearly 291,000 Ukrainian pensioners have been initiated by the government to abolish the 2014 pension tax. The relevant bill for amending the Tax Code is also submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council at registration number 4542. And we hope he is too. For your support in his acceptance. Four. The government has improved the housing grant program. During the heating period 2015-2016, the program allowed for reliable social support for about 6 million of our citizens' households. However, the actual data showed the need to correct the mechanisms for granting subsidies in important respects. First of all, we had to put in place a mechanism for economic consumption of energy resources. The monitoring of the actual consumption of energy by the recipients of subsidies and benefits showed that the standard of natural gas set for heating at 7 cubic meters per square metre of heating area per month during the heating period was overstated because the average actual consumption during this heating period was 5.3 cubic metres per square metre of heated area. In connection with this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, amendments were made to Decree No. 409, where the standard of natural gas for heating is set at a rate of 2.5 cubic meters per square metre of heated area, that is to say, to actual consumption. In addition, according to the heating season, unused amounts of subsidies as a result of excessive social standards will now be returned to the state budget. At the same time, with the aim of encouraging citizens to consume the services of part of the unused amount of the subsidy in the equivalent of 100 cubic metres of natural gas or 150 kilowatt-hours of electricity when using data sources for individual heating, the citizen will be able to count as payment of services, including the mandatory share of the household payment for the subsequent accounting periods. A key decision taken by the government is also to address the issue of the cost of the natural gas consumed to consumers in the absence of gas counters. Unfortunately, this topic has not been properly publicized in the media, and I would like to focus your attention on this very important aspect. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since March 23, 2016, introduced new standards for the consumption of natural gas: 4.4 cubic metres of gas per person per month if only a gas plate is used and there is hot water supply in the apartment; 7.1 cubic metres of gas per person per month if there is a gas plate but no hot water supply; and finally, 14 cubic meters per person per month if there is a gas stove with a water heater. By its decision of April 27, the government determined that these new standards of natural gas consumption would be in effect as of February 1, this year, Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 316. This will enable the resolution of the problematic issues raised by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine's decision of 28 January 2016 to repeal Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 237 of 29 April 2015 on the reduction of gas consumption standards for non-counter households. As a result of this decision, gas services, gas distribution services were held up to the count from May, and think about it, almost 4 million households worth between 500 and 1 thousand 500 without any legal basis. This decision has settled this problem, overcompensation is illegal and should not take place. If someone feels that he has been harmed by the government, he should present claims to the government, not to the citizens. Citizens should not pay for decisions made by government officials. The government has also changed the procedure for calculating citizens’ total income for housing subsidies, Decree No. 319. In particular, citizens with housing benefits and subsidies are not eligible for subsidies. This will not reduce the level of social protection of the population, since subsidies are calculated by taking into account the benefits and the amount of compulsory payment of services depends solely on the income of the family. And those households that don't have the right to a subsidy, but they have the right to a benefit, they're going to get the benefit. Those who are entitled to a grant will receive a grant, to those who are more comfortable with it. In order to encourage citizens to work, the type and size of income used in granting subsidies to individual categories of unemployed citizens has been clarified. There is an increase in social support for individual population categories, such as family - type children’s homes, foster families, and internally displaced persons. Since the allocation of subsidies to their total income will not take into account the social benefits they receive, respectively, State social assistance for orphans and children deprived of parental care, every month targeted assistance to internally displaced persons to cover the cost of living. This simplifies the previous arrangements for the provision of subsidies to all established homes of family type and foster families. In general, the above-mentioned decisions have taken into account the expected increase in households that will be eligible to receive subsidies up to 8-9 million households of almost 15 million households that are in our country today. In this connection, it is important to introduce clear simplified grant procedures that would make it impossible to have queues and delays in making decisions. To this end, a number of changes have also been approved regarding the introduction of new grant procedures, such as the possibility of filing applications and the electronic grant declaration. It is possible to recalculate the assigned housing grant automatically without reapplying to the recipient. The Ministry has actually begun implementing the decisions taken by the government to effectively implement the changes made. Together with the World Bank, training is provided to all local social protection agencies in every area. It is being developed and implemented since 1 October of this year, the only unified software for the calculation of subsidies that will be implemented in the work of all social protection bodies before the start of the next heating season, which will significantly improve the operationality of decision-making and the effectiveness of the implementation of the programme as a whole. Also with the World Bank, pilot projects are planned to create transparent offices to provide social welfare services to citizens following the example of those operating in Vinnice and demonstrate their effectiveness in providing quality services to citizens. The development of such a network of modern centres will allow for the adoption of applications and documents to provide social support under well-organized conditions, and decisions on their assignment will be made within a legal deadline, including housing subsidies, for 10 days. Regrettably, this rule is not being followed in Ukraine today, and we will do everything we can to ensure that people receive housing subsidies and targeted state aid within the prescribed legal time limit. The government is also planning to conduct a broad information company to explain to the population the decision taken to support low - income families. Ladies and gentlemen, as I conclude my statement, I look forward to your support for the legislative initiatives that have been taken by the Government to the Supreme Council, which I have mentioned today, and we count on your support for these initiatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, we will now have time for questions to the government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to all government officials present. Please prepare for the recording and report to the government. Let's sign up, please. Thank you. Mrs. Oksana, we'll give you an opportunity to ask questions anyway. And first question, please, Deputy Katsuba of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u14	. Kisses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u15	Passes the word to Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u16	Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers, distinguished colleagues, in these battalions we sometimes forget many of the important questions that today require consideration or require an answer. Two weeks later, the school year is literally ending. I would like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers about the rehabilitation of children. You know that the state programme has been postponed today, and funding from the Social Insurance Fund has not been funded since 2014. I understand there's some work going on. First of all, our electorate, local councils and me, as the people's deputy, the Co-Chair of Our End, is interested: will it not be possible that all funding will be at the expense of a local budget with very large funding problems? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u17	Dear People's Deputy Kisse! The question you raised is very important, and it is very important for our children. We have a serious problem with financing the recovery of children from social insurance funds. For almost a long time, there is a process of pooling the two funds, resulting in the creation of a third, which also does not work. And yesterday we met with the head of the Federation of Trades of Ukraine by Osov Grigory Vasilovich and discussed this issue. The Ministry intends to gather the entire management of our funds in the coming days in order to unlock the process of financing recovery in general, and children in particular. In terms of funding, co-financing from the local budget. As a former employee of local self-government, I want to tell you that not everything is as bad in local budgets as we sometimes think. Costs are there, and for co-financing, in principle, they can be used. But I fully agree with you that you cannot translate this problem fully into local self-government. For our part, we will do everything we can to make it a co-financing program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, the question of the National Deputy Illenka is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u19	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because I think it's a very principled political issue. must be given a clear answer to the Ukrainian society. Literally a few days ago, the minister of temporary occupation declared publicly that, yes, Ukraine is buying coal from territories temporarily occupied by Russia and that, he said, in principle, it is absolutely normal. Which, I said, gives us electricity and all that. And even the military is paying for those businesses that are allegedly selling this coal to Ukraine. I think, and I think it's not just me, it's our position, that it's absolute propaganda and it's impossible to explain how some people are on the front and they're being shot at there, and unfortunately, they're always losing there, and at the same time, someone's trading in occupied areas. Someone's making money on it. At the same time, these things cannot be combined with both moral and political, and even economic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u20	Please turn on the microphone for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. I think you know the real state of affairs. Convinced that we have to work out a common strategy for part of the occupied territories, including Donbas. Now Minpalevenergo and the Ministry of Temporaryly Inoculated Areas and Displaced Persons are dealing with this issue. We will find the right way out of this situation so that we do not have any contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Oksana Korczynska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u23	Good afternoon! Oksana Korczynska, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Volodymyr Borisovich, I'm addressing you now. A month ago, you promised us that the problem of supply of drugs for oncological children would be solved. You already know that now only six of the 167 drugs are in the hospital in Ukraine, and the only one down there is basic. Today I call upon you, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers, all members of the National Deputies, the President's Administration, to become benefactors, to count the money into the Tablets Foundation, to save all the oncological children of OHMATDIT. At this point, we have a 2 million-dollar deficit in drugs to save their lives over a month. If you cannot arrange international purchases and supplies of drugs, become benefactors and rescue the oncible children of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u24	Thank you, thank you for your question. First, we can organize. In fact, the situation was difficult enough and remains complex. To level it up, and you know it, it takes a few months, and I said it. The supply of international organizations that were making purchases has been unlocked, which has been blocked completely apart. In addition, through our areas of government administration, district councils, the city councils have sufficiently quickly formed reserves and reserves for the territory, and we understand the relevance of this problem, and I understand how difficult it is for children today, especially those with cancer, to emphasize, and I think that this situation needs to be corrected once and for all, but it takes some time, and I understand all the importance of this issue. So today all about territories, this availability of drugs and minimum stocks is information from district government administrations, district councils. If we have problems with OHMATDIT, I am now giving a mandate to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Health to identify ourselves and to resolve the lack of drugs by the end of the day, perhaps at the expense of redistribution. And, as you know, the government was dismissed as the first Deputy Minister of Health for the improper work carried out in this area. Please, Victor Viktorovich Saffransky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Next question, please, MP. If you'll excuse me, please turn on Mr. Saffron's microphone to serve as Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u26	The great Oksana Anatoliyevna, the question that you raised, it's really complicated, and the condition of providing drugs for oncological children needs our constant attention. And you know a lot of work meetings, meetings with drug suppliers, with Ukrainian distributors. By the way, tomorrow at 11 a.m., I'm meeting with Ukrainian producers and Ukrainian distributors, where this is going to be one of the questions. And if you have the opportunity, I'd be happy to see you at the Ministry of Health to raise the issue of speeding up supplies. At the same time, look for ways to provide the critical balance of drugs while we finally unlock the process, and the drugs will go into the region. This morning, I had a working meeting with Crown Agents, a drug company. As of today, you're absolutely right, only six drugs are in place. By the end of the month, they promise to supply 20 more drugs. Again, the point is that by the end of July, the vast majority of medicines for oncodite patients will be put in place. Again, we've been working on a series of issues. And tomorrow I invite you to the Ministry of Health for a working meeting on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u27	I'm just going to add one word about charity. I fully support this initiative, and I urge everyone to support it, and to count on a permanent basis the cost of providing medicines and all the needs of sick children. It is just our human duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u28	Victor Ostapchuk, Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u29	Please give my word to my colleague, Jacenk Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u30	Good afternoon. I have a question for Prime Minister Groissman. I have often spoken to the session about cohlear implantation of children. So that's when babies under three have to implant. It's worth 800,000 bracelets to one child today. Unfortunately, Mr. Rosenko had no reaction. And if you don't have an implant like this for up to three years, the situation will be that the child will be a deaf person for life. Prior to the arrival of Mr. Yatsenuk's Government, this money has always been allocated to all governments. Well, the price of something like 100 million grevens plus minus, so today's price is probably. And unfortunately, parents, you know, somewhere to take this money, 800,000 is a lot. I personally have three children like this in the district of Uman district. Therefore, I would very much like them to take this personal control. And the second question. I talked to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u31	I know this problem very well. In my life, I had an attitude toward one such child and helped to make such an implant. And, thank God, the kid's in school today and everything's fine. In fact, this is a serious problem. I will now assign the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Social Policy, to study the matter. I think so. At the time, when I was dealing with this issue as a city head, I did not need State support. I'll identify myself and see what we can do to help. I think we might be able to solve such questions with the help of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u32	Taras Shepherd, please "self-help." He's handing it over to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u33	Mr. Prime Minister, on the second day, entrepreneurs are discussing episodes of illegal activities of Zaporozhye militias, so-called "tax proteins", which are engaged in the search for and removal of blonde nuts, not in Zaporozhye territory, but in other areas, probably for the purpose of replacing them, removing them and obtaining wrong benefits. I'm asking you to give me an assignment and conduct a service investigation into the activities of these Zaporozhye taxpayers. You said this week that you would bring the system into the nutshell. We are all waiting for the government to immediately, immediately, introduce a bill that will order the acquisition of nuts, berries, mushrooms into the population. Businesses now buy them at a low price, people don't pay for VAT. Then the nuts are exported at an underpriced price for nonresidents, and the state does not receive currency. Please urgently submit to the Supreme Council a bill to sort out all these issues. Otherwise we're going to think that the government also wants to get the wrong benefit from entrepreneurs because they're now paying bribes to everyone, to the customs, to the taxpayers, to the controlling authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. I think the problem with the mob is that you call them white. White ones, huh? Tax proteins. Great. Dear colleagues, I now publicly urge all tax whites to stop doing what they are doing today. Personally, and now I'm assigning Billan, the head of the tax police, to recall all his tax whites to the base of the location and put a dot on this issue. It's a scheme, it's a pattern where hundreds of millions of dollars are being parasiteized and made. I think you've seen the government meeting on Wednesday, you're just repeating me. I've given an order for the next government to issue: first, a decision that we can resolve this issue. But you're right about this being regulated by law. So the bill in the next government will be considered and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you to do it very quickly, to approve. The president will sign it and they'll get the whites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u36	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, as a result of the increase in the price of Ukrainian gas, we are redistributing through the state budget 6.3 billion additional resources, including rent, income tax, value added tax, which we are sending to the housing subsidy programme and part to raise social standards. I'd like to hear the rest of the extra resources, and that's about 10 billion dollars left of Crushing, where it's going to go, and what's the mechanism, and when are we going to be able to see the financial plans of these enterprises? Is it because of the investment component mechanism, why we don't include taxes on government revenue in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm probably going to allow myself to answer the question of gas prices comprehensively enough, if you'll excuse me, because those who block the rostrum have asked me this question. I know. What's your name? I can call everyone Oleg Kuprienko, Yuri Chizmar, Oleg Lazko, Andry Artemenko. Colleagues, come on. See what happens to the price of gas. Well, first of all, I think everyone understands that the question of price for gas and gas in general has always been corrupt enough. Including the introduction of so-called different prices, when one category of people was sold at one price, another at another, they always did the so-called range: billions of cubes of gas were written down to the population and then sold as commercial gas. In addition, the excessive standards that were applied to households enabled them to do so in billions of ways. What did they do next? In many years, the system, the national gas extraction system, was destroyed. A steady decline in own production has led to a dependence on gas imports, which meant dependence on the Russian Federation, as we all know. In addition, no energy conservation measures were taken, and the gasification was intense in order to make this needle so serious that it could not be removed. What did the past government do? The past government reduced consumption and moved from a gas pipe to a gas pipe of European partners. Our job with you is to become an independent country. We need two things to do that. First. Maximum increase in own production, reduce consumption by energy efficiency and introduce alternative sources of energy. In addition, I would like to emphasize that the underpriced price of gas, which has always been offered for Crushing, would have destroyed this enterprise in general, no technical modernization, no possibilities. Today, when a single market price for gas is set, this enables us to increase our own production, eliminate corrupt schemes in this area in the range, and we have always been obliged to make an objective calculation because it is impossible to calculate what is not accounted for, and there are huge devices on this. Instead, I want to emphasize, we will support and I want to reassure the citizens of Ukraine, nothing in the accounts will change for you to pay, because there is an effective subsidy system. And those who have low incomes and those who need compensation are all going to be targeted for Ukrainian citizens, so no panic. I understand that the populists are going to tell us that everything is gone, but I want to say that, and some probably have something to do with gas is traditional and historic, but now we've given it to everyone. The only market price will allow honest compensation to those who do not have income, and all will pay in full those who have to pay the full price. Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk about it. I wanted to give you a few examples from the declaration of Ukrainian national MPs, but I think I'll talk about it next time. Now it's about increasing production and overcoming all corruption schemes, and it's all going to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u38	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Guljav Vásil Aleksandrovich. Why didn't he give you his word with a microphone? He's not in the hall, is he? Kisse, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to ask an old question, already beaten, about the Odessa-Reni road. We received information from the media about the meeting of the Governor of Odessa Province, the President of Ukraine, with your participation, which dealt with the financing of the Odessa-Reni road. We would very much like to have a concrete answer to the question of what funding is expected to be sources of funding. Even more so, Vladimir Borisovich, returning to my speech when we elected you, said we should visit the Odessa region and visit the border between Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Yes, such a meeting has indeed taken place, there is the President's commission to speed this work up. I would like to point out that at the last government meeting on Wednesday we allocated 134 million dollars to build this road. Now we're looking at how to adjust the plans of the Odessa Customs because they're there reduced, reduced, reduced, coming down, unfortunately, to compensate, respectively, and to ensure the construction of this road. It is one of the strategic roads, so it will continue to be built, and we will continue and complete it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll continue to tell you an important message. When a person is not in the hall, he has no authority to give his word to anyone. And then we're going to avoid these things because if there's only a card in the room and not a person, obviously this card can't live and pass on the word. I give the floor to "The Will of the People" to Sergey Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u42	I want to speak to the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, give orders to conduct a comprehensive military inspection at B2950, which imitated all the regiments of the Idar battalion. Because there's been an undercover case where the captured separatist is now at battalion headquarters and he's got a fighter. And for example, my daughter asks me when I'm going to give you the information that you're a part of the fighting. And that's more than a hundred of us. People were thrown out of the state, and injured were also expelled from the state. The act of admitting a position, accepting a tech -- there's nothing, there's no weapons, everything's in love. So I'm asking you to include me as commander of this section, because this is my main job, to include me in the commission, and to perform a complex test. Thank you. And count it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u43	Thank you. I've just given the order to the Deputy Secretary of Defense to deal with your request. Please, Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak, take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u44	Miroshenko gives the word to Husaku. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u45	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. Dear Igor Stepanovich, what is the current debt on salary owed to employees of state-owned carbon companies? And can you promise that this shameful problem is a constant debt to government coal miners, this problem will be solved and there will be no more debt, which, by the way, has not been in Ukraine for more than 10 years and which has again emerged under the previous government, I mean, a constant debt to government mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that within 12 hours of my appointment, I immediately met with the heads of the mining union and had a long meeting with them. Today, I do not even want to sound indebted, since some miners did not receive a salary for January. We made, we managed, we concentrated financial resources, and most of them closed almost two months of debt during that period. But I'm also waiting for help from the Supreme Council, in particular the changes to the budget that will cost: (a) for the restructuring of our mines, we have to finally take it to close non-profit mines and give them a system of adaptation to people for another job. I want to give support to government mines, and I believe that joint support, both the ministries and the government, and your support, we will take down the problem of the wages of coal miners and we will provide the State with the coals it needs today, which is a strategic raw material, including for the national security of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u47	Thank you. I'll take that as a speech, not a question. Dear colleagues, so that we don't have any misunderstandings, we've dragged "the hour of questions to the government," there's still two questions left. I'll give it to Two questions, and we'll finish an hour. I'd like to ask you the most concise question-answer. And I give the floor to Shurmi Igor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u48	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have a question for Mr. Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, thesis: enough populism and let's say practical things. First. In 2015, 2 billion 200 million dollars were transferred to specialized international organizations for the purchase of medical supplies. I have a question for you, not for the duty of minister. Did you know that the situation today has entered Ukraine and that only 10 percent have been brought into the region, less than 200 million. People were sick in 2015, there were no drugs. Doctors were to be treated, they had nothing to treat. It's a conflict. Sooner or later, everyone will be responsible. And if you don't set up a state-of-the-art review for today -- and I'm calling on the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the same time -- about the fact that you're being abused and you're not doing drugs, the responsibility will fall on you. Please arrange this inspection.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. The problem with drugs is that it really exists, and I said that in my previous speech. We've unlocked the supply -- and you're telling the truth -- at the cost of 2015. There are huge problems there, and today we're going to have to catch up and form, so that we don't have any problems in 2017. We don't move away from buying from international organizations, and we realize that there are very good things. There's an economy of 10 to 90 percent, my friends. This is when these funds from sick children were placed in the pockets of the sick. There are billions in gas, billions in drugs, billions in customs. This is at a time when people lack the money to give them a normal life. That's why we're going to fight this along with you. And I want to say separately that we have introduced a bill on drug registration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am very much asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be honest. You don't like this law, change it, make it better. But I only ask that in the next plenary week you adopt this law that regulates a few things, First. All medicines registered and used in the U.S., Canada, the European Union, Switzerland, Japan, and Australia were allowed without unnecessary checks on Ukraine’s market. Allowing us to create real competition because it's a pharmacological lobby. It's a crime, I'm underlining it. Because taking good medicine from those who are sick is a crime. He has to lose once, let him market drugs in Ukraine, and do not create artificial monopolies on the border. I would very much ask you to do so from this government. With regard to flight tests, there is someone to discuss, especially with the Ministry of Health. We will certainly do so. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u50	Thank you. And last of all, the ultimate question. Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich, People's Front. And we'll finish "the hour of questions to the government." Please, Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u51	Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Question to the Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, Ukraine has a budget of one billion dollars for the development of the infrastructure of the united communities. According to Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 200, the procedure for allocating funds provides for the agreement of each project: first with the commission under the servitude, then with the commission after the holding of the commission with the Minregionbud. If we're talking about decentralization, maybe we should simplify this procedure, because no one can still use it today, and they're on treasury accounts? Actually, that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u52	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for asking. Here's the address of the site where all Regional Development Fund projects at the age of 15, 16 are today, and can be used in the 17th year. Why is this so important? Because it's a transparent system that allows not only a district competition commission, not only a national MP, but also every Ukrainian citizen who lives in a local area, to see what is being implemented in his area, district or community at the expense of the Regional Development Fund. Why the procedure that is now defined under the Budget Code and we have practically put the decision on a district competitive committee. But it goes through the interdepartmental commission of the Ministry of Regional Development and the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council. So it's the same tool that makes the state shape regional development policy. It's those projects that are part of the strategy that are going through the development of each community that have to be supported by the state through the Regional Development Fund. Therefore, the extent to which local self-government is active in preparing such projects, agreeing and going through a district competition commission, because it includes district deputies and representatives of district administrations and civil society, depends on the duration of their use. Last week, the first tranche went out, and now the next week, almost the second half is going to work, and these costs are going to be available for investment projects that relate to regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u53	Thank you. And Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, if possible, has the final word. I will ask Hannah Hopko to release the Prime Minister of Ukraine and give him the opportunity to speak the closing word of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u54	Thank you, fellow Members of the National Parliament of Ukraine, and I would like to thank you for "the hour of questions to the Government," and I would like to thank you for yesterday's vote on the day-to-day issues related to the government's initiative. I think we need to deepen our interaction now with regard to the drafting of new laws and to do it in a completely shared way. I would like to emphasize once again what we have in the drug law. Here I am told that Japan has already fallen out of the bill. These lobbyists, they just don't understand what they're dealing with right now. Whoever prepared such an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be released by the end of the day. And there can be no other warning. That's what I'm talking about for the Ministry of Health. So we encourage everyone to cooperate, to work together. Thank you again for your question. And by next Friday, before "the hour of questions to the government." Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u55	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "The year asked to the government" is over. We thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government for their participation in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister has received an address. He will deal with this situation, and thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. Now, I'm going to pass the word for the request to Irina Heratchenko. But, dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you that it will be difficult for us to make decisions on a Friday under a regulation like this when we have a question-reading system when we have an hour of questions to the government. So I remind all the national MPs that today you can make your proposals for amendments to the Law on the Regulations for the Joint Work that we have done with the Cox mission. On Monday, the law will be registered, and we will begin its consideration. Dear colleagues, I urge you to take an active part in this bill. And I give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And I remind the factions, today, we're going to give one representative to work in a working group under electoral law. Please, Mrs. Irina, read the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Head. Before proceeding to the announcement of parliamentary requests, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Justice, Law, Honor and Dignity" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich, was elected head of this association. You are in need of work, Mr. Valeria, and of your union. And let's move on to the MP's questions. Dear colleagues, we have two parliamentary questions addressed to the President of Ukraine. They need a vote. Please prepare for the vote. Vladimir Parasuk's request to the President of Ukraine for an end to diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. Let's bet on confirmation, please. We're putting it to a vote. [[11:21:39]] For-61 I didn't get the required number of votes. Jurij-Bogdan Suhević's request to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "Publication is not subject to" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the USSR and the USSR, the former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company's Committees, etc., and the members of their families, who calculate pensions, based on the official salary of the Ministry, the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of pensions for these persons. Please put to the vote to confirm the request to be directed. A radical party might support your colleague's request? [[11:22:35]] For-72 Please, by the factions. "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front", "The Opposition Block", "The Radical Party Lachishka", "The Fatherland", "The Rebirth", "The Will of the People" all gave few votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u58	I'm about to. I'll read the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am moving on to, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on Approval of the formula for the allocation of educational subsidies between local budgets. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of an underwater gas pipeline, which is, excuse me, a pipeline to the village of Velika Kozar Romanovski district, Žitomir district. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the conduct of certification by officials of the National Police Department of Ukraine in Kiev and Kiev, as well as to the Office of the Central Authority of the National Police of Ukraine. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of the necessary medicines. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on citizens' income. Andrija Lozov to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the verification of the existence of grounds for bringing the judge of Shevchenkov district court of Kiev Volodymyr Bugil to justice. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the non-sanctioned production of rural coal in the area of the Land Council of the Kostopil Region and for the pollution of air by emissions of harmful substances that have a negative impact on the health of the inhabitants of the village of Mirne. Sergey Eutuska to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Vladimir Husak to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Provincial Regional Administration of the Donetsk Region for details on the census of projects of the Regional Development Fund in the Volnova region of the Donetsk Region. Alexia Savchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the work of the Competitive Committee for the conduct of district passenger transport competitions on public bus routes. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on privatization of strategic state enterprises in 2016. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for payment to ATO participants of a one-time bailout after the decision to demobilize. Group of National Deputies (Vropeyeva, Dobrenkova and others). A total of 13 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, to prevent a group of radically-arranged persons from exercising the powers of the Opposition Block, unlawfully restricting their rights as citizens of Ukraine, blocking deputies in the Odessa International Airport on 2 May 2016 and improperly fulfilling their duties by law enforcement authorities. Eugene Deja, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the use of measures to respond to the illegal activity of the Public Organization of the Doghunter Journalist Union. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for Reviewing the Appeal of Citizen Billous Roman Orestovic. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of total scarves in the forests of the Carpathian region. Group of National Deputies (Vilkula, Kolesnikova and others). A total of 5 deputies) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the commission of acts of hooliganism by deputies of the city of Marganec. Tetjana Crnoval to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, State Enterprise of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine Information Resources for Information and Documentation. Sergio Larina to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for a review of the appeal for the benefit of the community of the village of Petrostok in the region of Kirovograd. Groups of National Deputies (Chekiti, Melnickenka, Gudzenka) to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for an urgent review of the minimum prices of alcoholic beverages. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 for the repair of Sumi Kharkiv’s road. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the deputies of the Suma District Council on the need to improve specific issues of the normative monetary valuation of land. Groups of National Deputies (Doves, Dedeans, and others) A total of 25 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on discharge in accordance with the provisions of article 19 of the State Service Act of the Head of the National Police Department of the Odessa Region of Giorga Lortkapanidze, as a person who has citizenship of another country. Andrija Nemirowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of purchase of the vaccine from a fairy tale. Alexia Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District State Administration on the need for capital repairs at the Cominternov Institute of Teremok, Odessa District, a town-type village in which births exceed the mortality rate of the population. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the creation of an interdisciplinary bus route for the general use of "Dubrovica-Ternopil". Julius Ljovczany to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release of Vladimir Vátarović from office as Director of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. Julius Lewochkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of falsifying historical documents. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the completion of the reception office of the Ivanichov Central District Hospital (Volinsk Region). Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the detention of the Ukrainian Security Service and the maintenance of 12 hours of transportation with humanitarian assistance from Germany at the border crossing point of Yagodin Customs. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the General Office of the State Service of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Administration for the state of former missile bases, the legacy of the Soviet Union, in the territory of Brodivsky, Radehivsky and the Strysk regions of the Lviv region. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the need to break down, develop, forgive, the property damage compensation mechanism of the agricultural enterprises whose lands are in the zone of anti-terrorist operations and cannot be used to carry out economic activities and the damage caused by the loss of the impression that could not be gathered. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to take measures to provide hospitals with BCG vaccine. Groups of National Deputies (Jurinec, Ionova, Timesa) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Poland on the granting of a loan under the conditions of related assistance. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on compensation for housing subsidies to enterprises – providers of residential and utility services in the city of Korosteny Žitomir district. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the payment of pensions by a military veteran during the period of work in local government. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the definition of the status of persons born after 26 April 1986 and having the status of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster after they reached adulthood. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the certification of parents and children of multi-child families. Mikoli Skorika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the harassment of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs by persons who restricted the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian national deputies at the Odessa International Airport on 2 May 2016. Igor Shurma to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the illegal actions of officials of the Department of Finance of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, which significantly undermines the authority of the authorities of the state. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the damage caused by the State budget of Ukraine in connection with the transfer of the start of the operation of the central dry nuclear fuel depot and the involvement of officials. Taras Shepherd to the head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of mass logging of valuable species of trees by the Monastery Municipal Forestry Company. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the issue of the release of the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Vitarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to provide health care facilities with disability sheets. Irina Suslowy to the Ternopil City Head, acting as head of the head office of the Dergeokadastre in the Ternopil region, temporarily acting as head of the National Police Department in the Ternopil area to prevent the construction of the land on the street Textile in Ternopol. Irina Suslowy, head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration for the Use of Urgent Measures to Fund and Repair Roads in the Turkov region of Lviv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the education sector of the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, for the provision of stable work for the State Enterprise, the Knife Repair Engineering. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for compensation for the payment of benefits for the passage of separate categories of citizens. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the disposal of chemical residues in the village of Ohmatów in the region of Cherkas. Andrea Shipka is responsible for the Ukrainian Minister of Health’s responsibility to take steps to ensure that orphanages and vaccines are provided for the vaccination of children. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to remove barriers to reporting on the production volumes of certain operators. Groups of National Deputies (Galchenka, Vilkula, and others) A total of 37 deputies) to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the corruption of officials of the law enforcement agencies of Zaporozhye. Vasil Janicka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, the head of the Vladimirsky District Administration of the Plains Region, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "Rivneoblanergo" on the implementation of measures to complete the work on the reconstruction of electricity networks in the village of Dubiuk of the Canonic Village Council of the Volodymyrecki Region of the Plains region. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Fiscal Service, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the National Police for the conduct of the illegal investigation of the sanctions of the Public Shareholders' Association Suhimprom, Lazaković Igor Vasilovic, who violates the constitutional guarantees, labour and social rights of employees, avoids paying taxes, bypassing the state budget of Ukraine, cooperates with the Russian Federation to undermine the industrial power of Ukraine and makes separatist statements, apply appropriate measures of reaction and appeal to the results of a review of Ukraine's established legislation, and amends the leader for the cessation of illegal works in public enterprises. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the delay in carrying out the illustrative examination of the Deputy Minister of Interior of Jarov Sergey Aleksandrovitch. Andrija Shinkovič, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the need for a capital repair of roads in the Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk. Andrija Shinkovič to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative arrangement for improving the living conditions of nuclear power plants. Groups of National Deputies (Vicula, Pavlovka, and others) Total 19 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal attempt to destroy the State Enterprise for the Aviation Industry of Ukraine by leading the State concert "Ucrobanprom" and continuously obstructing its activities. Dmitry Timchuk to the head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, head of the Donetsk District Military and Civil Administration in order to prevent an environmental disaster in the area of Torecka Donetsk region. Sergia Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial security for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the quadripartite Memorandum of Cooperation and the blocking of the deployment of civilian volunteer doctors into the ATO zone. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent response to the distribution of legal subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the risk of the population living in the area of observation, particularly the town of Slavotic Hmelnick. Excuse me, the towns of Slavuta Hmelnicki district. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of the cost of gas tariffs for population needs and the calculation of unit prices. Anton Herashchenka to the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev for compliance with the requirements of the Kyiv Procurator's Rules and the requirements of part two of article 28 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in Criminal Procedure No. 42014100080000152. Anton Heraszczenka to the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Information Resources, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of documentation. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the thermal network in the village of Ivanovka Stavishtensky district of Kyiv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the issuance of land-based documents to social workers in the village of Denyevka in the region of Kiev. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the redistribution of unused funds in the year from the Regional Development Fund to the financing of the Lviv Industrial Park, which will give new impetus to urban development and new jobs. Taras Batenka to the head of the Lviv District Council for Disposal from the Lviv District Budget of 1 million dollars [104,000] to complete the construction of a platoon in the city of Bibrka of the Premyslán district of Lviv, which, in turn, will also allow water to be provided to residents of the village of Spilchina, where there is no water at all and for today all drinking water is imported. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a mechanism for the use of saved subsidies for the financing of energy savings. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the development of a report on the assignment of housing subsidies. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration of the Vinnitsk Region, Director-General of the Public Association of the Vinnitzaoblanergo, Head of the Strižavska Village Council of the Vinnitsky district of Vinnitsky district, Head of the Vinnitsky district government administration, Head of the Vinnitsky district council for the transfer from the garden and city society of Lisov to the balance of the Pat "Vinnicaoblanergo" transformational substation, as well as the establishment of individual electric power counters to members of the garden and city society of the village of Slavni Stryvska Village Council of the Vinnitice district of Vinnitice. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Vinicko District Administration, Head of the Vinicko District Council, Head of the General Administration of the State Department of the State Department of the Vinicko Region, Head of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service in the Vinicko Region for Payment of Land Tax by Scientific Research Institutions, which form part of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine within the Vinicko Region. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the application of measures to ensure the rights of citizens affected by criminal offences and to bring them into line with the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine relating to the calculation of police claims and reports of criminal offences and the introduction of them into the Single Register of Investigative Investigations. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the provision of legal evaluation to the public in the media of facts regarding the possible commission of corruption by the former head of the National Police Department in the Kyiv region (who is currently serving as First Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of Criminal Police) Vadim Troyan, deputy head of the National Police Department of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Dmitr Czenov and former Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine Sergey Chebotar. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the standard land lease agreement into line with the legislative acts. Olega Kulinić to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the absence of immunological drugs in the medical establishments of the Poltava region. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on systemic violations of freedom of speech in Ukraine, the pressures of professional journalism and attempts to cancel the work of a well-known journalist working in Ukraine, Savik Schuster. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the restoration of the rule of law. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the National Police of Ukraine for possible interference with an automated database of reports of crimes. Alexander Gerega to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor for the unlawful exploitation of state property in the person of the military trade service in the city of Starocostins Hmelnicki district. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovic to the procurator of the Hmelnicki district for the illegal eviction of the residents of the hostel on Zarichanska Street, house 14a in the town of Hmelnicki. John Melniczuk, head of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, on the video of Peter Simonenko's return, which justified the communist regime in Ukraine in 1920-1991 and promoted the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Mr. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the legality of making proposals to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the re-announcement of competitive selection as Director-General of DMA "Borispil". Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, State Administration to do work with the well-being and clean up the Radunka Lake in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the introduction of the system for the electronic voting of Ukrainian national MPs, "RADA-IV". Jaroslava Markevich to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, on ending the propaganda of separatistism in the Kharkiv region. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Vinnick district government administration, the head of the Vinnick district council on the basis of the elimination of Vinnicko district anti-tuberculosis dispenser No 2. People’s Deputies (Paulenka, Skorika, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to give a proper legal assessment of the actions of persons responsible for riots and provocations during cultural and mass activities on May 9, 2016, in the city of Slovenia’s Donetsk region. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the procedure for granting special permits for the use of drama. Tetjani Donec to the Chief of the Synelic Police Department of the National Police in the Dnipropetrovsk district for the improper work of the Basilkow Police Department during the memorial days. Aunties Donz is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for infectious diseases in Ukraine. Andrija Lozov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on unreliable information about the draft law amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (No. 2766) on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Gregory Timesa to the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need to conduct a service investigation into the possible falsification of documents in preparation for the decision of the College of the Department of Education and Science of the Montenegrin Authority on 15 April 2016 No. 1/3. Jury Bublika to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine on the existence of corruption in the activities of the Polish law enforcement agencies, illegal interference with them in the business activities of the private enterprise ECOBIZ, violations of criminal procedural law in the conduct of searches in its manufacturing premises with the removal of financial and accounting documents and commodity values. Valeria Davidenka to the head of the Supervisory Board of the Blackwaterblannergo "Chernihivoblanergo" company HARTLEPOOL FINANCE CORP as a representative of confidence in the implementation of measures to normalize and ensure the proper work of PAT "Chernihiwoblanergo". Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of the right conditions for the participation of representatives of public associations in competition committees in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian State Service Act. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the situation of the construction of educational facilities in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Oleg Petrenko, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on guaranteeing the social protection of the 53rd Specially Mechanized Brigade, as well as participants in volunteer battalions that defended independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and participated directly in the ATO zone. Oleg Petrenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the improper performance of his professional duties and the coverage of illegal activities by the employees of the City Police Department of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the repair of the road of Korstosów-Osikkok Korstoszew district of Žitomir region. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for violations during the construction of a clinic in the city of Radomisl Sergija Rudika to the responsible duty of the City of Cherkas region’s Smiley Head on improper control over the use in 2015 of an additional 10 million 300,000 dollars from the Ukrainian State Budget for the needs of residents of the city of Smil of the Cherkas region. Sergei Rudika, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, to stop the administrative pressure on volunteers whose activities are aimed at enhancing the country’s security. Dear colleagues! Many have accumulated in these three weeks of questions, and I will now continue to read them in order to announce them all. Ljubomir Zubak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the Lviv Regional Organisation of the Association for Physical and Sporting "Dinamo" of Ukraine. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov District State Administration for the absence of an improper transport link in the territory of the Pettahata district of Dnipropetrov region and for numerous complaints of violations by the carrier of the North Trans Public Shareholders' rules on passenger transport. Victor Vuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to implement certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Ukrainians and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the oppression and non-compliance of Ukrainians in Russia and urgent measures to satisfy the national and cultural and linguistic needs of foreign Ukrainians. Ruslan Sidorovich, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the use of measures to return illegally transferred to the commercial structure of ATVT "Company D.I.B" of houses No. 35-A, 35-B, 37-A, 37-B, 37-B on Pushkinska Street to the municipal property of the city of Kiev. Ruslan Sidorovich, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for taking steps towards the return of an ATVT "D.I.B" community preschool No. 183 per street. Pushkinsky, 33-A to Kyiv's utility property. Roman Semenha to head the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the Society with limited responsibility for Parking Plus and the Department of Construction and Travel Management of the Kharkiv City Council. Michaela Golovka headed by the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the provision of information Mikhail Golovka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the city’s head of city of Melitopol, Zaporozhi district. Ruslan Demczak to the Director of the Department of Health of the Vinnick district government for the free provision of medicines for children with disabilities from childhood. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court for compliance with the legal terms of the trial. Sergey Laryna and Olesia Long to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on taking into account the opinion of members of the territorial communities in the process of reforming bodies with the provision of services to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the objective consideration of the need for immediate separation of the Odessa Region, in addition to the government budget of 175.8 million dollars for financing vocational and technical education and the non-complicatement of the Odessa system of vocational education. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Ishmael City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the labour and student collectives of the State Training Institute "Ishmael Centre for Vocational and Technical Education" in connection with the complex situation that has arisen during the current year in its functioning, the need to verify the relevant decisions of the city authorities regarding the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 and the non-compliance with the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the need to conduct service investigations concerning officials and officials of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, which covered the facts of illegal deforestation in Ukraine, including in the territory of the National Natural Park "Gutzulščina". Jury of Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the non-admission of delay by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the issue of acceptance of the post of Director of the State Enterprise, Borispol International Airport. Jury Lewchenka to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head, on urgent action to overcome the critical criminality situation in Kiev. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the solution of the priority problems that concern the inhabitants of the Sirec Microregion in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. Jury Bereza to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the provision of a component tariff for the supply and transport of natural gas approved for consumers, in particular from 1 July 2010 to 30 April 2014, from 1 May 2014 to 31 March 2015, from 1 April 2015 to 30 September 2015, from 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016, from 1 May 2016 and today. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of aggressive individuals against veterans of World War II and participants in the ATO, during the events marking Victory Day in the city of Žitomir. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget for the reconstruction of the Cerkas Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre, Taras Grigorovič Shevchenk. Mikhail Kobceva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 for the repair of highways located in the Kharkiv region. On this I conclude by reading the questions that have come from the Ukrainian National Deputies and declaring a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Everyone please return to the session room after recess. The next item, the honourable colleagues, our meeting is the activity report, the results of the work of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the future. And it's proposed that the next minutes of this report be considered. The first is a report by the head of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the future Alexi Screepnik. In five minutes, we're going to propose for the report, then we're going to ask the reporter -- in 10 minutes, and we're going to talk about the report -- in 10 minutes. Will there be no objection to such an order? It won't. The chairman of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future Alexi Scripnik is invited to attend. Will you be from the rostrum or from the seat? The tribune's blocked. Mr. Alexia, please turn on the microphone. Please, I'm already asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future was created a year ago. It was created as a descendant of the commission of the academic deputy Yuri. Igor Yukhnowski in 2003, and the commission developed an economic forecast for 2010, which was very difficult for Ukraine, and no one wanted to believe in those complex projections, so it was closed. When we set up a commission, we wanted the commission to become a platform for communication between parliament and expert associations to discuss issues of consolidation of positions and legalization of the country's vision through Parliament. The commission's mission was to create and update a future project for Ukraine in a global framework for action. Ukraine’s status as subject of global politics and economics. Basic working formats. A series of specialized conferences, parliamentary hearings and adoption of a framework bill. We created a commission of the future by example of similar bodies that exist in other countries of the world, such as the Finnish Commission for the Future, the German Parliamentary Development Council, the Canadian Development Commission and the United Nations Science and Technology Commission. In Britain. The best example for us was the establishment of a commission in Estonia. It took more than seven years to move from the commission to the permanent committee of the Finnish Parliament. That is, even the Estonians took seven years to understand the need for what the forecast for the future is very important and this is what it takes for the country to develop. Finland 2030 is a vision that's built with sectoral projections. The Finnish experts on the future ask me questions that I think should be of primary concern to both the society and the President, the Prime Minister, the government, the parliamentarians of any state that wants to have a future. In addition, the Finnish Parliament has released a book called Black Swans, in which they are trying to analyze the risks for the country. So we actually tried to take the experience of our Finnish colleagues as a base to make a similar commission in the future. The main thing is that no one is surprised by a force like that. Thinking about the future of a state is normal practice in any developed country in the world. This is ultimately the same as thinking about your own future, your family’s future, the company’s prospects for the coming years. So we saw two problems that we were trying to do without having any extra money from the budget. This is, first, an analysis of legislation on compliance with long-term objectives and on-going development. And what our commission managed to do in similar directions. In the first direction. A series of scientific and practical conferences "Ukraine of the Future" were held on 21 November to define Ukraine's role in solving the world's problems in four ways: values and modernization, Ukraine's economy, human capital, Ukraine in the world security system. We have included leading country experts, foreign experts, and intellectual centres from various organizations. The goal is to define the strategy of transforming Ukraine into an investment and technologically developed state and to formulate a pool of problems that need to be achieved in order to achieve this goal. During the year of the work of the future commission, we also supported and participated in a series of actions aimed at working with the future: the 2016 Kiev-Harkov-Livov Education Forum, in conjunction with the International Insytation Informal Education Festival, seminars: The Fourth Industrial Revolution: A Unique Chance or Threat, Education in Aeroindustry 4.0. Together with the International Institute of Management, these measures were carried out. As part of the commission, we met with NCTU Rector KPI academic Mikhail Zgurowski, who is the author and developer of the Ukrainian economics force on the medium-term and long-term 20, 15-year time horizons. I'd like to pay attention to his prognosis. I think those few numbers are very important to understand what lies ahead. The five critical factors hindering Ukraine’s economy: a 50 - percent shadow economy; corruption, smuggling, which is about 14 percent of GDP; the pension burden on the budget, which is 4 percent of GDP; government debt service, is about 8 percent of GDP; and the energy intensity of Ukraine’s GDP is 0.36, that is. And unfortunately, the long-term forecast of the Zgurovsky Academy says that in Ukraine only about 2 percent for balanced development. 30 percent is a foreign subject, the gray zone is 15 percent, the disintegration is 1 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u61	Please, let me finish. How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u62	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u63	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u64	Thank you. So in fact, there's a pretty small chance in Ukraine that we're going to have a successful development. But if that's the case, if we don't do anything to change the situation that we have in the country. And now we're actively communicating with the future commission. And in that action, I'd like to add, I've got over 100 speakers and a thousand participants. The number of online views is over 8,000. In the other direction, the analysis of legislation. We held our first hearing in Ukraine on April 13th on the subject of "Prognosis of Ukraine's Development" with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, deputy ministers, deputy heads of regional governments, district councils and representatives of civil society. As it turns out, long-term forecasting as the basis for the activities of any public authority in developed countries in Ukraine is not at all available. And the medium term, in different institutions, is based on different documents and does not interact at all. Yes, there is a forecast for economic social development for 2016-2019, a national regional development strategy approved by the Cabinet of Ukraine. At the same time, there is "A strategy for Ukraine's continued development – 2020", "A strategy for national security". But these documents had little agreement between them and there was no hierarchy between them. This makes it impossible to set long-term goals at all levels of government in a qualitative and holistic manner and to achieve them accordingly. That's why the hearings led to the establishment of an initiative group to write a law that would harmonize the state system of the projected documents and to define the conditions for co-operation between the legislative and executive authorities in this area. What's next? I would very much like the committee on the future to become a full committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We now have a unique opportunity in Ukrainian politicians to write a new country code, reprogram society and the state, but it is a topic of a separate and very thorough conversation. Thank you to all members of the committee for the year of work together, to our partners, and to our fellow thinkers for their help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. 30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u66	I'd like to end with Ray Sharatari, a famous Japanese politician, saying that real politics is thinking about the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go over your report. Now, please sign up for a question to the reporter if you have any questions. It's a recording. This is a discussion of the report, it's not a statement yet. Dear colleagues, thank you. Please, Teteruk Andrey, Teteruk Andrey. Teteruk Andrey gives the word to Berezi. Please. Oh, no? Next question. The People's Front is still canceling its question to the reporter. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u68	I have a question for a respected colleague. I'll tell you what, I think a commission like this is necessary. But please tell me, with this report, which has been processed by more than a hundred scientists under the guidance of Michael Zgurowski, has any of the public factors been introduced? Because there is objective critical analysis and a rather pessimistic future, which is composed, if I am not mistaken, of five scenarios, and all bad for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir. Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u70	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for asking the question. Of course, these results, worked by Mr. Zgurowski, were sent to both the government and all the executive authorities. But whether they read it or not, it's already a question of whether they're ready to read it. Because you're actually right, the scenario is pretty pessimistic. We have only 2 percent over the course of 30 years of steady development. And I would still like to explain that predicting the future when you understand what needs to be done, we can significantly increase these interest rates and make Ukraine a rich and normal country. To that end, we need to understand the factors that are interfering with us, and we need to find the factors that would allow us to be interested in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u72	Please, Ostap Ednak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u73	Dear reporter, thank you so much for your work and for this detail, for the report. I would like to ask you what your commission sees around Ukraine in the future. Because the work of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Collegiate Council, when no legislation has been adopted, no law relating to environmental protection – and they are registered and powerful, very important and systemic bills – puts Ukraine's future at risk – they will be deforestation forests, dirty and polluted rivers, and polluted lands of Ukraine. Please tell me what your attitude is and what your opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u74	Thank you for the good question. Actually, I'd like to generalize it a little bit. In fact, in Ukraine we always deal exclusively with tactical issues. We don't even get to the operating cycle, not to mention strategic. I mean, rephrasing, it's much easier to cut a chicken, because it's going to give us meat now than it's going to expect for eggs. And the environment is the same. It's easier to pollute it now, leaving problems and all that there is for the future. So we're not looking at solving these problems at all, motivated by the fact that Ukraine is now poor, and we're not ready to solve these problems. Thus, the situation is extremely critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Please ask Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u76	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleague, I listened carefully to your report. I agree that this initiative to create such a commission was absolutely right, because there are a lot of operational issues, tactical issues, but this policy is, you said correctly, modelling the future, and we need to ask a strategic plan, how we're going to develop over not only a quarter and a decade, but also a decade. And for that reason, I would like to ask a specific question about the economic model of our nation's development. If you learn the experience of countries that had different starting conditions, but as a result, in the 20th century, they were able to do economic modernisation, they would become powerful economic powers, like South Korea, for example. So we see that there was no purely liberal economic model, there was a combined economic model that allowed for the maximum concentration of forces on those sectors of the economy that gave rise to development. And don't you think it's today?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u77	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u78	Thank you. Does it not seem that the economic, economic philosophy that is imposed on us today will not lead to the development of our economy and turn us into raw materials, strengthen Ukraine's status as a raw state that will not be able to create an innovative and modern economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u79	Thank you for the good question. In fact, it takes at least half an hour to answer it, but I'm going to try to say a few of the most important things. First. That development that is in Ukraine, it has absolutely nothing to do with the liberal economy. That's the first one. The other one. The actual support for development is the kind of thing that's needed and done throughout the country. I would remind you of a saying that is very strong in America, and they say: "Don't listen to what the English say to you now, but do what they did before they tell you." So there's a point to think about what we need to support, from liberal things, we need to significantly reduce the state's share of GDP distribution, and everything else we need to think and think about how to develop the economy of Ukraine, of course, on market normal principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u80	Please, Peter Dusty Block, Sverk Grigory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Alexia, I have a question, have you already registered a decision to continue your commission at the Supreme Council, and what must you do to make this happen? That's the first question. And the others. How can I become a member of your committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. I really want to make a small meeting either with the faction leaders and with the Supreme Council to understand how much this commission needs not only the deputy Screepnik but other deputies, because pulling the commission without the normal resources is extremely difficult. And that's why I want to. I think I need a commission like this. Do you want to make it a committee? It's probably too early to go on. I think we should. That's why I want to register, but before I do that, I would like to have a discussion, actually, with what resources are ready for the Ukrainian Parliament to allocate so far for this commission to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Romanova from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u84	First of all, I wanted to support my self-help colleague in creating such a commission. I remember when they were only being created, even on the Internet there were criticisms, that is, not yet, not used to such names. But I would like to remind you that even in the richest country of the United Arab Emirates this year, the Ministry of the Future appeared. And above all, this ministry is concerned with the problems of educating young people, as well as education, in order for young people to become the engine of reform, and this is the best guarantee of a happy future. Therefore, it is highly desirable for most to join the work of the commission, and it is the direction of education and development of children and young people that has become, or the most fundamental, of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u85	You will answer, respond, a respected reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u86	One thing I would like to say and complement what the speaker said is that the issue of education and the future is very much connected. Those kids who are now in school are actually our future in 10 years. So we have this commission set up by the Committee on Education and Science and thinking about how to improve and make our first education competitive. Secondly, one of the most catastrophic things is that we have a situation with our science that we're trying our budgets just to destroy and turn Ukraine into a banana republic. Nevertheless, we will do everything in our power to ensure that Ukrainian science remains. And then, I hope, people will appear in the government, and in parliament, who will realize that without science, without innovation, we cannot continue to develop the country, and I hope that this seriously changes the situation both in the country and in the country’s vision of Ukraine in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u87	Last question, please. Hanna Hopko is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u88	I would like to thank the initiator of such an important Commission on the future of Mr. Alexia and all the deputies who work. At the last World Economic Forum summit, the Fourth Industrial Revolution was discussed. We see the importance of technology, however, that robots will soon be as common as pets, about 3D-printers of organs. And I would like to ask you, because the Ukrainian Parliament ratified the Horizon-2020 Agreement with the European Union, which actually builds the economy on innovation, on knowledge. We ratified the Creative Europe Agreement. Like right now, you're working with the government to make these agreements with regions and cities, to make city measures modern, and to try to be modern, using technology. And how exactly do you see your cooperation that Parliament needs to help establish communication between a government that has to apply the 2020 Agreement, institutions, universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u89	Thank you for the thorough and complex question, Hannah. I see a few layers here. First, we need to develop and adopt the Innovation Law this year. Because Ukrainian science, it's a thing in itself, only fear of total destruction has caused her to do a little bit of pianist work and show what great things are done in Ukrainian science. Now we need to teach them to make a lot of money. And if we can do that, Horizon 2020 is just helping to do that, and, of course, we need to do everything we can to make science not only exist in Kiev, but it exists in other areas. Because education without science is the moderation of education, so we need to make a balance between science and education, and we need to develop harmoniously. How? It's a huge question and there's a lot to do, unfortunately, the commission didn't have enough resources to ensure full interaction with the executive organs and, more importantly, to ensure their interaction with the district councils and areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to the report, as we agreed with you, it'll take us 10 minutes. Please sign up for the discussion. I propose two minutes for those who will take part in these debates to set regulations. And an announcement for those MPs they're planning. The announcements for those deputies who are planning to take part in the discussion under the heading "Varisne" in 10 minutes are being recorded, please come to the session room. Thank you. So, National Deputy Krivenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u91	I want to thank Mr. Alexia Screepnik for the work he's been doing, because, unfortunately, this pseudo liberal rhetoric, which has been in place for 25 years in Ukraine, has completely destroyed the Institute of Planning, the Institute of Strategy, and we have a lot of consultants, experts, even in my native Academy of Public Administration, which I was finishing, one professor told me in a lecture that the main document of the strategic Ukrainian state is the Law on State Budget. So the executive document, which is, in fact, the result of those strategies that were put in the academy for senior management, the professors called the main document strategic. And I want to complement and support Andrey Illenck of Liberty that the People's Movement is also holding to the model of the need for liberal hybrid and stimulating instruments. No country in the world has been successful thanks exclusively to liberal approaches and liberal tools. There is no example. They all combined: both South Korea, which was called Poland, and the United States. And correctly, Mr. Alexei quoted the American motto that instead of following the advice of the English, follow their example. When the English Empire became tired of the wars of opening up markets, a model of so - called free trade was born, completely liberal. But then, as it began to be exported, after Mr. Ricardo’s work, England collected more than 100 years of taxes worldwide. And she used it in her customs wars and did it right for herself. Therefore, Ukraine needs to be subjective, with clear strategies and understanding of how it will win the three world wars in which it is unfortunately an object today. Both the majority, the deputies and the government, do not even realize that these wars are coming. They're market wars, they're investment wars, and they're resource wars -- agglomerate and human. That's why this committee is right to continue its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u92	Thank you. Please continue speaking to the Bureau of the People's Front. Deputy Berez, you have a word to discuss. National MP Rudik. Please turn on the microphone, National Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u93	Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues! I certainly support the initiative to create such a commission, and I hope that its work will be so strong that it will allow us to look seriously into the future. At the same time, it is only possible to build a future when we close the issues of today. Question number one for our state is the probabilities and the people who fight for this defence. I was doing a briefing this morning, and I'm sorry to be a little distracted about volunteers who imported technology, machines, products that allowed the enemy to be stopped in 2014 and in 2015. Unfortunately, after two years, the two cars he was talking about today were transported to Ukraine literally a week later, two were destroyed in the ATO zone. And you could put a fat dot on that question if you didn't have one "but." On March 16th, the Cherkas County DFS sentenced volunteers two of them who brought these cars to a fine of 500 untaxed minimums, motivated by what they did, to drive those cars in violation of customs rules. Of course, they filed a complaint and won the case in the Smilan Court, but it would be, once again, if not for a single "but," the Chercas County DFS insists on an appeal and the 16th of May in Kiev in the Court of Appeal will listen to this case. If I had not personally been present for the transfer of these two bronzers to the ATO area in the Sands, I probably would not have spoken of it. So if I take this opportunity, maybe we'll be heard by Ukrainian defense attorneys, I'd like to ask you to look at the position, collect the fiscal costs of some non-patriots who defended our country in 2014 and 2015, then our future will be in good hands. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u94	Thank you. Nevertheless, we are now invited to discuss the report of the head of the Interim Investigation Commission on the future. I'm sorry. We give Borislav Berezi to the non-frustrational.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u95	Borislav Bereza, out of fact, 213, Kiev, not the People's Front. Thank you. I want to support my colleague, Mr. Screepnik, because what he does is very important to Ukraine. Not without the past. Without the future, there will be no questions today. Moreover, it is very bad that Ukrainians do not understand how important this is. And more than that, I want to say, I know there's a ministry of the future in a very large number of countries. And these countries don't plan their future for 5 years, not 7 for 30 years, for 50 years. So I want to say that right now we have to support our colleague, we have to support these initiatives, because in the future we really have our major victories, now we're fighting for the past, and this is a loss, we don't have that right. We must work for the future, for the joy of our children, for the good of the Ukrainians who will live in the years to come. So a very big thank you to Mr. Screepnik and I think that Ukrainians should know what MPs are doing, who are really working for Ukraine, for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u96	Thank you, non-fractional Borislav Bereza, National MP. Please, Mrs. Ola the Mantis, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, first of all, Mr. Alexia, thank you for your work. Can I move you a little bit? Thank you. Secondly, I want to say that without making Ukraine's future human-centred, these laws on the economy, on the development of our state, if we don't rely on protecting the health and life of Ukrainian citizens, they will lead Ukraine in the future to absolutely destructive processes. The highest level of child alcoholism in the country, and there are proposals for legalization of the game business, which is absolutely clear that it will increase these levels even more. The highest rate of infection, the lowest rate of life expectancy in all European countries. So all the laws and all the processes that are actually forming Parliament and government, these processes have to be asked whether this law will improve people's lives, once, and whether this law, or whether these changes can make the environmental situation worse, or if they can reduce people's life expectancy. So I'm talking to Mr. Alexia, and I want to say that the Health Committee is developing a strategy for future protection and a program called Ukraine 80 Plus, a public platform in which environmental, educational, cultural orientations are involved, we are ready to join this social platform called Ukraine 80 Plus, which aims to make and increase the life expectancy of Ukrainian citizens to 80 years, and that this life is not petty and unworthy, but that it is worthy and happy. So we are ready with all our efforts to join you in continuing your work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u99	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I think it's very important that we in Parliament today have the opportunity to talk about strategic topics, economic strategic themes above all. And once again, I would also like to complement and express my opinion, which I began to express in my question. I think that after Ukraine's independence in our economic thinking, which dominates politics and mass media, there are things that don't match today's world realities. Because when we're told that everything is very simple, in order for Ukraine to become rich, we just need to make full privatization, we need to get the whole state out of the economy and everything. This will be enough for Ukraine to get rich and develop on its own, unfortunately that is not the case. And if we see and analyze the experience of the 1990s, we see that the thoughtless actions that have only led to the most unjust and inefficient economy in Europe, which we are now used to calling an oligarchic model. Of course, the market mechanism does not have an alternative in the world today. But if we look at countries that, once again, were able to break out of the third world in the 20th century into the first world, like, for example, the same South Korea that I was talking about, there was a combined economy, there were also market mechanisms, and there was, and there was a state strategy that allowed for the development of innovative economies, not just raw ones. And turned these countries from raw colonies into innovative modernized economies that dictate fashion today in the world in science and enable them to move forward. So Ukraine needs to take this experience into account. And not to listen to those who are interested outside, so that Ukraine will continue to be a raw, backward, and essentially an economic colony under liberal slogans. Therefore, this must be taken into account, and this must be understood and studied by successful countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u100	Thank you to all the deputies who participated in the discussion of the report. Report for. on the results of the work of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on future issues are taken to the attention of well - known, respected colleagues. I remind you that the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council was formed on April 22, 2015. And considering that, in accordance with part eight of article 85 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the term of office of the temporary special commission may not exceed one year from the date of its creation, I declare that the authorization of the temporary special commission shall cease. And now we have at 13 p.m. a traditional Friday session time for national MPs speaking on various issues under the heading "Rizzne." Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the presentations. Please, Victoria the Bird is starting our debate. He passes the word to Arthur Gerasimov. Please come to the rostrum unlocked at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I have been asked by the House of Heroes of the Celestial 100 to help resolve the housing issues of the six families of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, who do not currently have their own housing or need to improve living conditions. The decision on the allocation of funding, the transfer of social housing to the families of the dead, and the activists of the Order of the Kiev City Council was adopted. But it turns out that in the process of its execution, it's the separation of apartments in a planned building that's built in an ecologically polluted area next to the garbage treatment plant and the Bortnicka station collector. In addition, the apartment meter is calculated at the lowest possible rate. On the family side, it's not a choice, it's a necessity, because most of them are wives, mothers and children. For example, Olena Ribak lives with her daughter in a rented apartment, and her daughter spends more hours a day transporting her to a school where she is studying. I would like to personally and on behalf of 60 national deputies to address the city’s head of the city of Kiev and the head of the city of Kyiv State Administration, Vitali Volodymirovich, Klitschka, with a parliamentary request for six families of the Heroes of Heaven’s Hundreds to live in areas of the city with more advanced infrastructure and better ecology. I also ask that family representatives be involved in the selection of the area of residence and that the work of KMDA from this direction be built in close cooperation and interaction with the public organization, and that families be involved in the selection of apartments at the decision-making stage, not after it. Please consider my speech a question from me and the 60 national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u102	Thank you. Please form the Secretariat in the form of a parliamentary address of information that has come from a colleague of ours. And please, the People's Deputy of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Gennady, the Faction of the People's Front. Today, I would like to continue, perhaps, my initiative, which concerns the April 22, 4,507 bill, which deals specifically with the ban, to amend some of the legislation on government regulation, production and circulation of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes in order to reduce their attractiveness. What is the essence of the bill? To this day, we all understand and know how big and problematic smoking among minors is. Statistics show that 1 out of every 4 children in their teens has either tried or smoked since they were 14 years old. One of the main attractive reasons for minors today is that they add so - called homes, flavor supplements, to regular cigarettes. This is a variety of tastes, ranging from mint, coffee, and the like. So I was able to adopt a bill that I propose to prohibit the production and circulation of tobacco products with taste additives, starting with mint, mint, and other kinds of supplements. At the same time, this bill I propose to draw attention to the fact that in Ukraine we have fairly active and widely sold, so-called electronic cigarettes, by the way, we can see the patterns of these cigarettes in my hands. If we look at electronic cigarettes that are sold freely and our children, our teenagers can also use them and use them because they're not so visible, they're not clearly expressed cigarettes that you see in my hands. And that is why it is very easy to cause, and it will cause the teens to use tobacco again. You're going to say, what could be the tobacco in these electronic cigarettes? So, respectable colleagues and respected Ukrainians, respected parents, I would like to point out that a rather small font on this packet is written that there is also tobacco in electronic cigarettes. So my initiative and my proposal to compare electronic cigarettes to regular cigarettes in Ukraine, to license them, to pay them, and to impose appropriate bans on advertising, sales and the like. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the United States of America in 2009 there was a corresponding initiative, which, in turn, was the reason that smoking among minors in three or four years was almost halved. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Many very speaking, very many speaking. Please, Mr. Suhevich of the Radical Party of Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u105	Ukrainian people! The government has recently promulgated changes to the Pension Tax Law. It was said that taxation would be abolished. Is that really true? What the government has offered is a deception of the people. It is proposed that taxes be reduced, i.e. only for those pensions that are higher than 4,000. Consider: Do many have such pensions? This means that they will not tax those pensions, by 20,000 or more, and which beneficiaries of these pensions have not paid the corresponding contributions to the Pension Fund. Think about it. At this time, hundreds of thousands of retired workers who receive pensions in a thousand 200 dollars are taxed at 15 percent. Understand that I registered bill 4542-4, which cancels this pensioner tax. But the profile committee supported my bill, approved it, but it succumbed to tremendous pressure. A professional committee and government demands that a profile committee vote and annul its decision and instead support a government bill. People, pensioners, you have to understand, only your activity, your speeches, your demands to the government to cancel this tax can result. Otherwise, we will again be freed from taxing the rich, and the last shirt will be torn from the poor, unhappy, followed-up pensioners. Think about it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u106	Please, Meduna of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u107	Oleg Medunica, People's Front faction, Sumi. The newly appointed Prime Minister gave a sharp assessment of the negative leadership of the State Fiscal Service regarding the fight against smuggling, including the smuggling of cigarettes, through Ukraine. In my district of Sumi, I began an uncompromising fight against so - called illegal fuel stations, where local smugglers sold gasoline, or smuggled from Ukrainian oil, or smuggled from the Russian Federation, to which only 40 kilometers [40 km], thereby causing great damage to both the state and local budgets. Unfortunately, this system was being broken down by law enforcement agencies and then by the militia, and by members of the State Fiscal Service. With the help of the public, we were able to close all illegal charges in February of this year. So we've seen that in March months, almost 50 percent of the local budget in Suma increased from paying taxes on excise goods in Suma to selling more fuel through official fuel stations. But it's just a part, and a small part, of the big smuggler world, which, by the way, is heavily controlled by the Russian Federation by the FSB. And the Ukrainian smugglers who import these goods are also FSB agents, only a small part, because the biggest part is cigarette traffic. Recently, the principle position of the Sume TV and the head of the Goncharov Juriya allowed the entire caravan of cigarettes to be stopped at Bachovsk on its way out of Russia. This van went through customs control, border controls went through, and only BSS employees detained more than a million euros of cigarettes from Belarus through the Russian Federation and Ukraine to Romania or perhaps Hungary. This evidence indicates that the smuggling of the mafia is taking place in Ukraine. This smuggling mafia is most likely to include the top officials of the State Fiscal Service, who have organized and are now organizing large traffic through Ukraine to the countries of the European Union of smuggled Russian and Belarusian cigarettes. I call on the Prime Minister, I'm conducting my parliamentary investigation, to about 20 cars that, according to my records, drove in as empty in Ukraine. They drove cigarettes across Ukraine to Romania and Hungary. That's why I call on the government, the Prime Minister, to be uncompromising.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u108	Come on. I didn't give it to your colleague the same way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u109	I call on the Prime Minister to fight the smuggling of cigarettes uncompromisingly, because this directly threatens the security of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Galchenko gives the floor to Deputy Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u111	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! This week, Parliament was dealing with very different issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] He blocked and repeatedly elected the Attorney-General, strangling as much as possible to carry out some personnel change. But again, no one's ever taken care of people. This week, Parliament had to consider the most important laws relating to the abolition of pensions. Two years ago, for the first time in world history, not only in Ukrainian power and factions within the coalition, such a know-how has been applied, it's like a pension tax. People have worked their whole lives, worked in combines. They worked in the marten furnaces, worked in the mines and couldn't. And now we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I beg of you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please stop. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, respected colleagues! Dear colleague of the People's Front, I very much ask you to follow the European rules now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague, now is the time that your colleagues from various factions have in Parliament to continue speaking. I'm asking you to go back to your jobs, not block the rostrum, not block the rostrum and. Dear colleagues, I am now. Dear colleagues, I'll close this meeting in the morning. Please meet in the morning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to take your seats. I'm about to close this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I beg of you. Thank you. Add one minute to the speaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u113	Respectable colleagues, once again, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u114	I ask everyone to be correct and speaking, and all those who are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u115	I'm happy to speak in Ukrainian if they don't make me do it. We are free people in a free country and will speak in the language in which we are comfortable. Yes or no? You want to speak Polish, speak Hungarian, which is convenient for you. I am comfortable speaking Russian, I speak Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u116	You are obliged to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u117	There you go. Let me finish. We insist that next week be a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u118	You can, but you're adamant.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u119	Again. We are free people in a free country. I want to speak Ukrainian, I want to speak Russian. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u120	You are so our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you. We need to learn to conduct ourselves — both to the authorities and to the opposition.
