ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are starting our work. Please. Colleagues ready for registration? Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. Please register. [[10:03:43]] 344 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Stanislav Semenovich Berezkin, Eugenia Borisovich Geller. Let's say hello to our colleague. Oleg Stepanovich Musia. Let's welcome our colleague. Ruslana Mikolaiovich Solvara. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is a very difficult and responsible day. We will have a large number of important and social bills placed in the agenda: and to increase the minimum wage and minimum wage, and to increase subsidies to the Pension Fund for pension payments, to increase support for families with low-income children. It also includes the day-to-day issue of the withdrawal of pension taxes. In order for us to be able to make decisions as soon as possible, today we need to include this in the agenda, and we need a high level of discipline in the hall. And today we're in the daytime order, according to good tradition, on Thursday there are laws on decommunization. Let me remind you, in our own time, we passed these laws in the Pure Thursday by common vote. And then the law stipulated that by February 18 we would have this process completed. Unfortunately, it was tight. Today, there are three bills that deal with the renaming of 10 districts, 17 cities, 247 villages and villages, as well as cities that are in occupied territory, as well as cities that are in Crimea. I want to stress that these bills are non-conflict. In all of them, the names of cities and villages were consistent with local communities. And the only question is to demonstrate a structured system of work, and I invited Vladimir Vittarović, who is actually the organizer of the decommunization process in Ukraine. I look forward to working quickly and effectively on these important issues. So I'm going to look at the first question of order of the day about naming individual locations and districts, the first Order 4086. And I'm asking my colleagues to support the proposal to review those bills on short notice. Colleagues ready to vote? Please take your seats. Please focus on your work. Now, I'm going to put a motion for a reduced procedure on the vote and count on your support. Mrs. Olena, Mrs. Olena. Please go to work. So I'm voting on the motion for consideration of Decree 4086 on a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's support decommunization. Vote. [[10:07:55]] For 133 Decision taken. Radical Party, take state's position, please. Zero, zero is a radical party. Colleagues, I'm going to make another offer. I ask everyone to take their seats carefully. Oleg Valeriyovich, order in the faction, please. You're out of order. So once again, I'm proposing a simplified procedure for decommunization laws. Emphasis, Oleg Valeriyovich, after decommunization, a reduced procedure. Short-term decommunization procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote short-circuited decommunization procedure. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[10:09:08]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Subcommittee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! The Committee considered at its meeting on 15 February 2016 the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory for the Renamement of Individual Human Settlements and Areas in Temporaryly Occupied Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region in relation to the need to bring their names into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist, Nazi Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Promotion of Their Symbolism. The Committee reviewed 38 recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory regarding the renaming of individual locations and areas in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk Region, one of which related to the renaming of the region (Telmanovo region) and 4 cities ( Youngcommunarivsk, Kirovsk, Komsomolské, Torez) and 33 villages and villages, as well as 36 appropriate recommendations in temporarily occupied areas in the Lugansk region. Of these two involved the renaming of the districts (Krasnodonsky and Sverdlowski), 8 cities (Kyrovsk, Red Luch, Vahrusheva, Petrovsk, Krasnodon, Artemyovsk, Stahanov) and 26 villages and villages. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue and taking into account the recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the committee adopted the conclusion: Recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to rename individual settlements and areas in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, by adopting a general and appropriate draft decision (registration No. 4086).
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, me. Mikola Trochymovich, you finished your report, didn't you? Mikola Trochymovich, you finished your report, right? Did you complete the report? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to record two in favour, two in favor. Please sign up for the performance. Igor Lapin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u4	I give you my word to Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u5	Oleg Medunica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, surely our faction will support this decision. I call on all parliamentarians, the leadership of the Supreme Council, to complete the process of decommunization and the return of the historical names of our population points in this plenary session. Because the longer we stretch the issue, the more roadside wastes, including controlled Ukrainian media, put the subject into Ukrainian society in a negative perspective. And I think we should put a dot in this session in the process of restoring historical names. Today, we have a plenary meeting with Vladimir Viatrović, welcome him, the head of the Institute of National Memory, the executive body, who has done an extremely large and tiny work on renaming, and the decommunization of our historic sites, which have been forcibly Communistized. So I urge you all to vote in favour, and I continue to ask, including the leadership of the Supreme Council, the heads of the committees, as soon as possible, to carry out this process through the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u7	Thank you. Boris Tarasyuk gives the word to John Krulk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u8	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The issue of Ukraine's disintegration is the issue that the Ukrainian Parliament should have resolved in the first years of Ukraine's independence. It's because all of Ukraine's 25 years of independence have continued to practice the worship of Soviet totalitarian symbols, the tolerance of the former totalitarian reality, we have problems with the occupied Crimea, we have problems in Donbas, we have problems that the Ukrainian people are divided and there is no single ideological value -- the values of the Ukrainian state. This is what Parliament is now obliged to correct. And we need to put a dot at the earliest possible time in decomposing all the population sites, streets, areas, and finally in Ukraine, to establish the historical justice that must be. Ukrainian heroes have to be respected, and those who destroyed Ukraine, who destroyed our ideals, who robbed Ukraine, who made Ukraine not a Ukrainian state, but whose servants, that's all to go into non-existence. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this decision. And we think that in the near future, we have to in all cities, including in district centers and district names, finally fix the situation when the idols that we used to have famine in Ukraine continue to bear the names of the district centers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Alexander Doubenkov, please, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! At present, a great deal of this pophosic relativity has been expressed by the coalition representatives, that draft Decree No. 4086 on the renaming of certain settlements in the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk and Lugansk region should be supported. Once again, these are the territories that are not currently controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. In doing so, the Ukrainian authorities do not, indeed, take the necessary steps to reintegrate those territories. And instead of implementing the Minsk Agreements, instead of establishing a peace process to resolve the situation in the east, we are once again reforming above. In fact, we are not against the very principle of renaming human settlements. But respectable colleagues, the opinion of locals must be taken into account! Do they want to rename these settlements, and who thought so? \More than that, I would like to say that this current Supreme Council does not have majority representatives from these territories. Just as you have the moral right to vote in favour of this bill and not have the opinion of a major representative who would indeed represent the interests of these territorial communities, the interests of these people in order to report to you and whether they wish to be renamed now. I believe that this measure is premature. Those territories should be reintegrated into Ukraine, the respective representation of those territories, the territorial communities, and then the question should be raised. In fact, you do not exercise authority in these territories and try to impose values on them by referring to the National Institute of Memory. But that's ridiculous. The main thing now is the integration of these people, helping these people not to divide into Ukrainian society. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u11	Thank you. I'm just going to tell you that, indeed, today our citizens of Ukraine are hostages of the Russian occupying forces, and the state of Ukraine will do its utmost to get them released as soon as possible, and as other citizens of Ukraine have all the rights and freedoms. But today we have the question of naming names. Andrew Lozova, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u12	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues, when you hear of "the opinion of local citizens," that public opinion has been divided, please tell me, in 1945, when hammers were carried, especially in the territory of the present Ukraine, the tablets of "Adolph Hitler Strasse Street" were endured, did anyone ask the public opinion? I didn't ask! It is a matter of honour for this Parliament to finally bring the process of decommunization to an end. And the attacks of the pro-Russian forces on the Institute of National Memory, on Mr. Vitatrovich, are just saying that you, Mr. Vladimir, and the collective that works do the right thing. But first, there must be decommunization not only of the names, but of the decommunization of the heads. And when today the Supreme Council in the best traditions of the CPRS is transformed into the branch of the President's Administration and the bill written on its knees, by force, we will never have a decommunization of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u13	Thank you. I'm sorry to comment. Don't push all the questions into politics, Mr. Andrew. Divide state and politics. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. The important question, I think, is that the voters of all the national MPs will be careful to see if they were in the workplace and how their voice was devoted. Let me remind you, the first bill, 4086, refers to the renamings of cities, villages and villages in today's occupied area. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Order to rename individual locations and areas in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk (No.4086). There's a committee proposal, on the basis and in general. And I'm putting the committee's proposal first. 4086 is based on the whole. Dear colleagues, we vote, please. [[10:20:18]] For 245 245 for. The law is passed. Hello, Mr. Vladimir. 245 is a little, we're mobilizing, we're going to need 300. The following draft decree, association, refers to renaming. This is a draft decree to rename individual settlements and districts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I want to stress that today we have a unique opportunity to restore historical justice: to return the historical Crimean Tatar names to the Crimea population. In Bill 75 of the recommendations proposed by the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. And I want to stress that they are all completely in line with the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. I want to remind you that May 18 is the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Crimean Tatar Genocide, so today's vote is also a tribute to the victims of the repression of Crimean Tatars. So I ask you to take a responsible approach to the discussion and to make a decision. And I ask you to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. [[10:21:49]] For 216 216 is "for", the decision is made. Mikolo Trohimovich Fedorchuk, please. 87, Crimea. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fedoruk. What did I say? Yes, Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Our committee discussed at its meeting on 15 February 2016 the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory on the renaming of individual locations and districts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol in relation to the need to bring their names into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist, Nazi Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Promotion of Their Symbolism. The committee reviewed 75 recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory regarding the renaming of individual locations of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, 5 of which referred to the renaming of areas: Kirovsky, Krasnogardy, Krasnoprekopski, Leninski, Sovietski, one town of Krasnopek, and 69 villages and villages. Having fully considered the issues, taking into account the recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute, the Committee unanimously adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7, paragraph 8, of the Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes, and to adopt, as a whole and as a whole, the relevant draft Decree (Registration No. 4087). Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Vitaly Kurilo, and I'm sure he's passing on the word Chubarov. I have no doubt that he is speaking the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u16	Dear fellows, dear Head! Clearly, I urge my colleagues to support this decision. She worked with experts, with the Institute of National Memory, and worked with Crimean Tatar experts and Crimean scientists. The only thing I'd like to suggest to the committee is that we discussed this, but there was no consistent solution. The second paragraph of this decision indicates that it takes effect from the time of the return of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol under the general jurisdiction of Ukraine. We would consider it possible to withdraw this paragraph and consider these renamings to be valid as soon as this regulation is signed. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, passes the word to Oleg Medunice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u18	I think we're all going to support this decision right now, because we're actually going to give due cause to the Crimean Tatar people for Ukrainian sovereignty over Crimea. Even in Soviet times, Crimea’s inhabited areas had Crimean Tatar names. Only after the criminal deportation and genocide of the Crimean Tatar people in 1944 did the Soviet authorities begin the process of naming it as Crimea. Today we can restore historical justice. But let us keep in mind that in this room there are those who do not want this historic justice to return. Those who did not vote yesterday in favour of the United Nations Organization for the Genocide of the Crimean Tatar Nation, which is now leading the Russian occupation power in the occupied Crimea. So let's fight in the Ukrainian Parliament these political forces, which are actually the toll agents here, the traitors of Ukraine and those who are constantly the rubble of Russian invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko. And this is the final performance, let's act quickly and efficiently. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u20	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. When the occupier, a representative of the totalitarian authoritarian regime with its headquarters in Moscow, is occupying any territory, the first thing he does is destroy the indigenous people. This was the case with the Ukrainians when the Soviet regime occupied Ukrainian territory and organized a famine, a genocide of the Ukrainian people. This was the case with the Crimean Tatars when a special operation was carried out to deport Crimean Tatars from their Crimea territory. This is so now that the Crimean Tatars, after the restoration of Ukraine's independence, have been given the opportunity of an independent Ukraine to return to its canonic territory, are now under persecution by the Russian authorities. They turned out to be strangers in their country, they turned out to be strangers in their territory. They cannot use their language freely and use English, many of which have also been translated into Ukrainian. Crimean Tatars are the ones who have always supported Ukrainian statehood. And, of course, now that we're returning to the Crimea population, their historical names, the Crimean Tatar names, this is, first of all, a tribute to justice. This is a restoration of justice. But these are also steps from the shareholding of Crimea. Surely these are not the steps that we should now expect from the authorities with Crimea returning to Ukraine, more decisive steps. But these are the steps the Ukrainian Parliament can take. And the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of renaming these locations. And we think that Crimea is always, is and will be Ukrainian! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u21	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko to the vote. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and get ready for the vote. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainians! The president’s polytechnologies yesterday on the internet were dispersed by the prison that members of the Radical Party's faction, together with the thieving bloc, did not vote in favour of the Crimean Tatars' Bill of Support, for calling for the genocide of the Crimean Tatars. Similar messages are based on a primitive audience. Because yesterday, the whole country saw that the Radical Party faction in its entirety voted in favour of our brothers in Crimean Tatars because we blocked the House of Parliament. And today we will continue to block it immediately after a very important issue of decommunization is considered. We support our brothers in Crimean Tatars, our brothers. The Radical Party faction will do its utmost to ensure that Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, and people of all other nationalities return to their native Ukrainian Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. I'm going to put a bill to the vote. And once again, I am convinced that careful attention will be given to voting on this bill. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Nameing of Individual Populations and Areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol (number 4087) on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:31:08]] For 255 It's been decided. I welcome the writers of the decree, the committee and the Institute of National Memory. And from that block, the final decision is the draft Order on the Rename of Some Popular Points (number 4468). Here are just the population points that are aligned with the local communities. The question is non-conflict. And I would like the National Deputies to support the committee's proposal to review the reduced procedure. Please, who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[10:32:01]] For 211 Decision taken. Before inviting the reporter, I have a big request not to react very emotionally in the room. If you've noticed, there's a discussion on every bill. And everyone who wants to take part in it will. Take off the emotional pressure. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovitch to report. Please. Yes, 68, 4468.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u24	Honourable National Deputies, to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council to reconcile issues relating to the renaming of individual population sites and areas of the Committee of State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meetings on 31 March and 13 April 16, in addition, I would like to stress, to consider the proposal of individual bodies of local self-government and the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory to rename some of the population points in relation to the need to bring them into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and to prohibit the promotion of their symbolism. The committee considered 224 proposals for the renaming of locations and districts. Among the above suggestions, it is proposed to rename 6 districts, 4 cities, 114 villages, and villages. The authorities of local self - government and the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory have reached an agreed position on the renaming and naming of these locations in line with the requirements of the law. The committee proposes to remove from the draft regulation the village of Komsomolské Mikolaiyivské District of Mikolaiów Region (proposed name: Charitable), since the proposed name of the settlement is in full agreement with the local government. Having fully considered the issues and taking into account the proposals made by the local self - government authorities and the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, it is proposed to adopt, as a whole, a draft Order on the Renaming of Some Populations (Registration No. 4468). In the event of the adoption of this decision, we propose that the committee prepare them for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out their technical and legal work together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u25	Please, how long does it take? You're done, aren't you? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u26	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u27	We're done. Then thank you and take your place. Dear colleagues, please hold: two for, two for, two against, there were willing to speak. Chubarov gives the word to whom? Peter Dustock's Block, who's speaking? Nobody. Okay. That's why I'm here. Martovitch Arthur Volodymyrovich, "The Opposition Block." I'll pass on the word to the next reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Dmitri Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u29	I will not now speak of political preferences, support decommunization or not. I wish to point out that the name should go on peacefully, democratically, people must decide for themselves what to call their city, village, village, especially when we are going towards decentralization. If even the name of the populace is dictated from above, what independence and autonomy on the ground can be discussed? First of all, we need to listen to the opinion of communities rather than to what the commissions or deputies like, or to what appears to be, or that one name is better, or that one name is worse. I want to speak responsibly because I am precisely a member of the majority district concerned by this village. And I would like to draw attention to paragraph 3, to the last village on this list of Shirokov region, the Red Plugatar. In renaming the village, the wishes of the community were not taken into account. Please vote separately and the name of this village, the name that people wanted, does not fall under the law. Please take into account people's wishes: the village of Red plugatar is simply called Plugatar. In addition, I would like the deputies to take into account that the community not only has a traditional reduced name for the village, but also Plugatar is immediately associated with the creation of Taras Shevchenko, namely the poem "Sadok Vishnivi". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. My hometown of Kamyansk, now known as the city of Dniprožinsk, now known as the Catath of the Ukrainian people, has fallen out of this decree in a strange way. We've had a lot of manipulations, and in my city, when you've just been fooling around with people who have to change passports, which is going to be very expensive, it's all a lie. I just had a conversation with the head of our Institute of Memory and with the committee, and they all support it. Please vote in favour of this decision with the addition of the Dniprodijnski – Kamyansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u32	Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u33	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, your honorary colleagues, we too, our faction, support the offer of the village of Red Plugatar of Shiroki district of Dnipropetrov district to rename the village of Plugatar. The reptilian is the Ukrainian name. It's a village, it's a village, it's a plough, it's an association with a village. So I don't see any problem if our village famous in Dnipropetrovska is called Plowatar. And so that residents of the village of Plugatar can ride modern tractors, have a modern school, a kindergarten, and all Ukrainian villages, when they're not robbed by the offshore mob, when they're paid taxes, when they're not dispossessed, then there's going to be a plow, and a tractor, and a pig farmer, and a water, and a gas, and a school, and a normal life in our Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u34	Honorable fellow workers! Another chicken, one minute, and then the committee head will tell you what he's up to and what he's not up to. Please, Chicken, and then one minute, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear fellow national MPs! In absolute support of Oleg Valeriovich Láška about the need to make appropriate changes to the specified Decision project. But unfortunately, I can't agree with our colleague Krivenk's proposal, and I suggest that this very important decision now do not stop you from reloading it, not include in its text a change in the name of the city of Dniprožinsk. That's the first one. Secondly, I think it's absolutely and absolutely obvious, and it will be fair, to put to the Supreme Council our bill on the need to hold appropriate local referendums on these important issues regarding the change in the names of such prominent and huge cities in Ukraine. That's why, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you not to put this bill to rest, not to reload it and vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, pay attention! I see the hall is very tense, I want to tell you, we have a committee decision, and only the committee will give the final advice that it proposes to put to the vote. Let's not be self-employed here, there was a very large, very thorough committee work, let's respect the committee and listen to the committee. Your faction has already spoken, I'm sorry. She's already done. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u37	Respectful fellow workers in the Red plugatar area are already in a position to do so. The committee was considered, and the committee supported the name "Plugator," and it's in this determination. With regard to Dniprodijnski, there is a suggestion that, once again, there should be no disagreements in the hall, that the committee should consider the proposal further, and that it should be sent to one of the following sessions of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we have heard the position of the committee. We still have the desired speeches. I think there's a point to date. Please, Wilkul, one minute. I'm sorry! One minute to the rostrum. Andrew Illenko. From the People's Front, you're to be identified by someone else. Someone! Yuri Timoshenko, make a deal! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u39	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Very sensitive names change issues are now being addressed. Thank God, we did it today, and thank you for that, and for that, and for that, the MEPs from the U.P.P.P. will be removed from the name of the city of Dnepropetrovsk. 90 percent of the inhabitants of Dnepropetrovska do not support this name; we have collected more than 300,000 signatures. And in order not to corrupt society, this cannot be done without local referendums. We do not support the name of the city of Dneprodj yinsk. Let these issues be considered by the Committee, let there be local referendums, but do not care about people, do not care about the views of millions of people and lose their confidence in the highest legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we are not considering this issue right now. Let us not consider the question of Dnipropetrovska. Be careful, read the bills, work responsibly! Andrew Illenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u41	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, I just want to understand what this is about. How can a Ukrainian society break down the names of our cities from the executioners of Ukrainian society? How can this cause whom to be dissipated? You're defending Draginsky now? Dezhinsky, whose name is synonymous with blood and terror. You are now defending Petrovsky, who was the organizer of the Netherlands in Ukraine, and in the Dnipropetrovsk region, how many people were killed by hunger! You're defending the names of Kirov, who wasn't even in Ukraine once. What does that have to do with anything?Oh, my God! So I think we really have to clean up our land from this. And I think it's important that we not only rename villages and villages -- it's very important -- but let's finally get the names of these catas out of our cities and give them our real, traditional Ukrainian names. This will unite Ukrainian society, not split it apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Bezbach, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u43	Thank you very much for the speaker. I still think and support the point where there should be a referendum. That's what's going to bring people together, just a referendum. And people determine what city they live in. And you don't have to tell me what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u44	Colleagues, a one-minute break, a break in the hall. The issue of decommunization can be discussed several days in a row. And exactly everyone will have a huge number of right and right words to say on this right and great subject. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is your last performance. From the People's Front, Helen Boyko. And we're going to the vote, colleagues, and we're going to the vote. Olena!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we ask you to support Bill 4468. The People's Front will support him. And on behalf of the committee, I want to assure you that this particular project is non-conflict. All decisions were in agreement with the local authorities. Public hearings were required under the Decommunization Law. And it's the public hearings in these communities that we're talking about right now that they're going through. No local referendum is referred to by the Decommunization Act. And by the way, I want to remind you that there is no law on the local referendum today. So do not make a conflict where it does not exist. The subjective opinion of the people's deputies from the Opposition Block does not contribute to national patriotism today, does not contribute to the ideology of the restoration of national values. We very much ask you to return face to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people, to the communities that have come to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u46	Thank you very much. I'm giving Sergei Vlasenkov one minute, and we're voting. Sergei Vlasenko, one minute. The head of the committee who will explain all the nuances.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! This is not the only decision left after decommunization. We have a separate decision. individual decisions on Dnipropetrovsk, separate decisions on Kirovograd, separate decisions on a number of other conflict areas. This is the only decision in which the proposals of local governments were fully consistent with the National Memory Institute’s proposal. Hence, there is no other discussion. Unfortunately, we did not get the position of local self - government from Dniprostinsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on this bill, which is non-conflict, and then to go back to the discussion on other settlements that are regulated by other regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u48	Thank you very much. Colleagues. Please prepare for a vote that supports decommunization. Please take your jobs. Please take your jobs. Ready? Can we vote? I'm voting on a draft Order to rename some of the population points (number 4468) on the basis and overall of the committee's proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:48:33]] For 265 It's been decided. Welcome to the National Memory Institute, welcome to the committee, and thank you to the deputies for their very active work. I'll tell you one thing, guys, don't try to push me or try to talk to me about patriotism. My life has proved that I have some bearing on patriotic movements and patriotism in our country. We made very important decisions, colleagues. Thank you for your unanimity, for your unity in making this decision. Once again, two factions were required to take a break. But we were able to agree that there would be no break, and they would replace the break with a bell. And according to the Rules, I give the floor to speak from the rostrum of Oleg Lašek. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to inform you of today's extraordinary events that took place this morning at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Today's Radical Party faction in its entirety, we've met with the leadership of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to demand information and explain whether they're conducting anti-corruption investigations into the state's top officials: President Prashenko, head of the National Bank of Honduras, Minister of Finance of Daniluk, First Deputy Secretary of the Council of Homeland Security and Defence of Gladkovsky, former Minister of Energy Demchisin, Makar Pasenuk, National Deputy Igor Kononka and a number of people, information about offshore and corruption that the world is discussing. We were able to meet the first deputy director of the NAB Gizo Ugleda. By the way, nine o’clock in the morning there was almost no one in the workplace, and it took a long time to wait. The NABU authorities have informed us that they are not conducting any criminal proceedings against the highest officials of the State. When I asked why, a month ago, when the National MP Popov applied for an investigation, with a parliamentary request for an investigation, when the National Deputy Kuprienko made a parliamentary appeal three weeks ago to violate the criminal investigation against the finance minister Daniluk, who admitted that he was the head of three offshore companies, the Head of the NAB told us that they did not have enough time to check these reports. They need more time. And in general, the statements made by the people's deputies are not the basis for criminal conduct. I am surprised by the lack of knowledge of the laws of the NAB because the statements of the national MPs, the media reports, the journalistic investigations are the basis for criminal conduct. These facts, when the blind, like the blind trust of President Dustenk, refuses to investigate the corruption of senior officials, force us here next plenary week to report to the Parliament of the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Sitnik. The whole society wants to hear where half a billion dollars are spent, which is budgeted for the functioning of the NABU this year. So the Radical Party faction in its entirety continues to block the parliamentary rostrum. We demand the establishment in Parliament of a commission of inquiry into the offshore investigation and corruption of the highest officials of the Ukrainian State. We demand from the government that the citizens return the tax price to gas. We'll stand for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u50	Thank you. But we'll have a radical party in good physical shape after a three-day stand by the rostrum. We're moving on to the agenda. And let's go to the first reading of the bill, 3863. This is a bill by National Deputy Mustafa Nyem to amend article 15 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (according to article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities). Dear colleagues! I ask you to mobilize and I propose to vote now in favour of the accelerated procedure for addressing this issue. Vote. [[10:53:43]] For-152. The MPs supported it. Thank you. The author of the bill, Mustafa Nayem, is invited to the floor, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! To your consideration, there is a bill that provides for changes to the National Police Act, which brings him into line with the Act on Central Executive Authorities. The point is that the territorial authorities, the central executive authorities, can form, in particular, as inter-regional units. We propose to make this change to the National Police Act. Because it doesn't match that point. Please vote this law as a basis and as a whole. Because it does not provide for any change or provide for any cost, it only brings the National Police Act into line with the Central Authorities Act. Governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u52	Thank you, dear colleagues. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Andrew Kožemiakin. Mr. Andrey, will you be from the rostrum or from the rostrum? Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee reviewed the draft Law No. 3863. It is proposed that the territorial authorities of the police be established as legal persons of public law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the areas, the cities, as well as the inter-regional territorial authorities, within the limits of the police and the cost of their maintenance. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee decided to support it, but with Mr. Palamarczuk’s amendment, that was the point. "The number of territorial authorities of the police and the inter-regional territorial police authority to which they are subordinated does not fall within the police border number and is determined by the Head of the National Police, taking into account the security contracts made, and is kept at the expense of the funds received under security contracts, as well as other sources not prohibited by law." The committee thus decided to recommend to the Supreme Council. Will you please shut up, Andrew? Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council during its consideration to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to discuss the bill and sign up for two for two against two. Please. Please, National Deputy Stasuk of the People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u55	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u56	Ah, please pass the word to Anton Gerashchenko. Anton Heratchenko, please. Turn on Anton Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill is technical and is amended to a size of one paragraph. It is fully detailed on the Committee on the Enforcement of Law Enforcement. Therefore, please support it in order to improve the quality of the legislation of the National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the point is that without this law we cannot continue to operate in areas where there are inter-regional units of the National Police. The point is that the National Police are now, you know, the function has changed and there are departments that are subordinated vertically, and there are departments that are subordinated to the heads of national governments on the ground. Therefore, the request to vote on this bill is completely technical and only harmonizes with two laws: the National Police and the State Authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yvchenko of "The Fatherland" gives the word to the head of the profiling committee, Andry Kozemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, not as the head of the profile committee, but as a member of the Fatherland faction, Andrew Cosemiakin. Once again, I want to confirm and support the drafters of the bill and Mr. Mustafa. In fact, it's a technical regulation, it's a technical law, which unfortunately, when the National Police Act was passed, it was omitted. That's why we're correcting this mistake today, and I'm asking everyone, hall, to support and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Sidorovich, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u64	Please. I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Of course, we support this bill in the part that Mustafa Nayem was talking about, that is, the technical part about resolving the issue of the central executive authorities. But here's a note about the amendment made by Mr. Coszemiakin in his voice regarding the financing of police units from all sources not prohibited by law. Let me remind you, I want to remind the hall that we're talking about the governmental authorities of executive power. And in that case, it can only be about budget funding, or about financing those kinds of activities that are provided for the executive and no other. So I would still like to correct this amendment and limit myself to these two issues, that is, "budgetary funding" and "funding from the activities of this state executive body." Otherwise, by making changes to the technical bill, which we're really adding one more line, I would say, a corrupt rule that actually allows the security police to receive from any source of funding for their own activities that contradicts the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Are there still those who wish to act under this law? No, it's not. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please take your jobs and not leave the hall, but enter the hall, your esteemed colleagues, and take up jobs. On the basis of that, yet on the basis of that, Yegor, that's the basis. I stress to my fellow Members that we are voting on the basis of this bill. The changes you recommended, yes, we can make between the first and the second readings. Right, Mustafa, on the ground? That's the committee's decision, and that's how we're going to vote for the committee's proposal. Yes, are you ready to vote? Ready. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (according to article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities) (number 3863) on the basis of a committee proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote on the basis. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:02:08]] For 260 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Need a shorter procedure for the second reading, Mustafa? A shortened procedure for second reading is necessary or not? All of it. Let us consider the simplified procedure for the second reading. Are we backing up, colleagues? Olenka, Yegor, do we support? Come on, guys, pay attention. I don't mind if we vote in general if we take into account the proposal that sounded. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I can support the suggestions to vote in general if the thought expressed by Helen Sotnik is taken into account. Friends, think about it. The police can't fund anything other than the budget from other sources. Do you understand the consequences? We're commercializing the Institute of Public Authority. So without this norm, I propose to vote in favour. If this rule is, remains, I'll call for a "against" vote. I ask you to delete this rule, then we can vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The author of the Mustafa Nayem bill will now take a stand. If this position is for a uniting room, I will put it to the vote as a whole. Please state your position for one minute. Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Let us vote on this bill as a whole, as proposed without amendment. Then we won't have any arguments, either with Olena or her funding adjustments, or with Mr. Palamarchuk, because there's no one there. There's no objection. I understand that the authors of the amendments have no objection either.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u70	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u71	Colleagues, in order not to break strictly the technical law, I support Mr. Mustafa. And I'd like to read out the next content that's going to have to be approved with self-help. "The territorial authorities of the police are formed as legal persons of public law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities, Kiev and Sevastopol, areas, cities, areas in cities and as inter-regional areas, which are extended to several administrative units. Territorial authorities within the limits of the police's border number and the cost of maintaining it." Period, that's it. Is it accepted? Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u72	Victor Pinzenik plus? "self-help" plus? Mustafa plus? Dear colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to accept, as a whole, the amendment that Andrew Cosemykin just made under the transcript, the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (3863) as a whole. Ready, colleagues? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on 3,863 as a whole. Please vote, Your Honor. [[11:05:52]] For the 250. The law is passed. Congratulations to the author, and welcome to the committee and all the colleagues who participated in the discussion. It was a technical but very important issue to regulate the National Police. Dear colleagues, we now have a favorite part of the agenda, which is called "for inclusion in the agenda of the day session." And I'm going to ask the first question. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Not what you thought! [[B in m in s a l in]] First question. The first issue will be the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation. And at the request of the faction of Fatherland and Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko, we put in all the bills, gave them the numbers, so that during the discussion we would have all the bills -- and the MPs, which were submitted more quickly -- to discuss together and together, and then the Hall would decide which of them to support. I would like to stress that this is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session so that we can look at it more quickly and bring it up for consideration. And, dear colleagues, it does not provide for discussion. We have a lot of important laws in this chapter, cooperation with the IMF, social laws. And I ask your attention right now, we're going to have a lot of votes without discussion. Please concentrate, prepare for hard work. And I'm voting on the proposal to put in order the daily draft of Laws 4542, 4542-1, 4542-2, 4542-3 and 4542-4. Who supports the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Separated by each other? [[B in m in s a l in]] Tyre, yes! One-two-three-four-five is an alternative. Anyone who supports the proposal for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:08:05]] For 295 295 for. Decision taken. It's a victory, we're getting results. We'll have 450 votes soon. 4543 is the next bill. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2016 (for social standards and subsidies for benefits and housing subsidies). 4543. This is a government proposal. Who supports the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. 4543 are social standards. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:08:58]] For 288 288, yes. Decision taken. The next one is 4524. It's also government. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you one minute. Now I'm putting in the order of the day session in the sequence that was handed out to all the deputies. I'm not going to change this sequence, and we're not discussing these laws right now, we're putting them in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I am simply asking you to pay attention and take part in the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Someone with roses in the hall, be careful! With roses. The draft law is now 4524. This is a draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2016" to increase expenditure on external independent evaluation. Colleagues, an important bill. 4524. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:10:19]] For 221 221 for. I have a question: do I have any warnings about him? Singakovsky, please, a minute. Please explain to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Science and Education where it was unanimously decided that the source of funding for the COD for the reduction of the education grant of the Lugansk and Donetsk oblasts was impossible. We were promised that the source of funding would be changed. But taking the funds from Lugansk’s, Donetsk’s areas of education subsidies is not possible from a political or economic standpoint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u74	So you think from the committee that this bill can't be included in the agenda, right? Please, from the People's Front. The flint. Yes, Cream, please. Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to make adjustments to this proposal. In fact, the committee's decision was to back him up. Recommend it in the agenda, but still ask the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance for additional comments, from which the funds will be collected for the implementation of the COD. I would like to emphasize that the need to increase funding for the implementation of the WCO is a huge need. Now we can question the external independent evaluation and, accordingly, the introductory campaign of 2016. So I'd like you to be civil and yet to include this bill in the agenda of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u76	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts, dear colleagues. I'll put it to the vote again. If it doesn't work, we'll move on. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Just getting in line for the day session, fellows! Then we can discuss, give arguments, support or not support. And I am revoting the proposal to include in the agenda the daily draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act on the increase in expenditure on external independent evaluation (4524). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:13:02]] For 211 Unfortunately, you do not make a decision. There is not enough political will. Next. We're not discussing it, we're voting now. Next draft of Law 4484. The government bill is also a draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (registration of medical devices). It was the position of both the government and the committee, and there is an offer to include it in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, there's no warning from him, all right? I put to the vote who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the 4484 session on medical devices, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, 4484. [[11:14:06]] For 261 Decision taken. Next, 4510: draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities concerning the Deputy Directors of the Central Executive Authority. It's a government bill, supported by a committee, 4510. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the vote that supports the inclusion of the daily draft of Law 4510. Please vote, vote. [[11:14:50]] For 199 I'm gonna ask him if there's any warning on him, right? From the committee. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. Alexander Kugel, I put twice on the vote when it's inconclusive. This is my right under the Rules. And please don't deprive me of my legally prescribed rights. I'm going to vote 4510 again. Whoever supports the proposal to include it in the agenda only, please vote. Please vote. [[11:15:47.]] For 184 The decision is not made. The next one is 4515. Draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to optimize the territorial bodies of the State Fiscal Service. 4515, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the 4515 session, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Vote! [[11:16:29]] For-187 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I will address the deputies. We now include in the agenda of the day's session government bills that are necessary for cooperation with the IMF. And unfortunately, many factions, those who recommended the government and supported the government, are now just outside the hall. Working with the government isn't just good words, and it's not just going to the ministers to make a deal. Government support, first of all, is the support of the government's bills. And I very much ask you, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to take up jobs and to vote responsiblely for the government's proposals. And, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I ask you to mobilize the faction to vote. I asked the blockers to block as much discipline as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u77	And your colleague comments all the time. Thank you. Colleagues, I'll bet the next one is 4516. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to minimize the impact on revenue administration. Society, government bill. The Southern Committee. It's just about getting into the agenda. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the agenda of the 4516 session, please vote. Please vote, vote. [[11:18:30.]] For 241 Decision taken. 4503, this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market. 4503, Government Bill. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. It's a government bill. Please vote. Please vote 4503. [[11:19:10]] For 233 Decision taken. The next one is 4525. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. 4525, who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, is also a governmental one, please vote. 4525, Your Honor, we vote! Just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[11:19:50]] For 217 Colleagues, we didn't get five votes. And that's why I'm going to do it again. But I would very much ask members of the government coalition to support the government in particular. For I will turn to the ministers, that after that vote they may determine who shall be received from among the deputies, whom they shall not receive. It's too big a bill for the government. I'll put the vote again, if we don't get through, I won't bet anymore. Are you guys okay to hear me? I'm re-voting 4525, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Seventh, please vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. People's Front, vote 4525. Please vote. [[11:20:54]] For 228 Decision taken. The next one is 4526. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "On State Service", the Vlastenka Bill, set out. Not Vlasenka, but the Vlasenka Committee, but determined by the government for consideration. 4526. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 4526, please vote. [[11:21:34]] For 209 I'll put it again, colleagues. Whoever thinks he's important, we don't discuss him, we vote him, colleagues. Call the people who support him into the hall. I'll put it to the vote again. So once again, 4526, just getting into the agenda. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4526, please vote. [[11:22:13]] For 197 The decision is not made. 4493, a draft of the Ukrainian Power Market Act, defined by the government for consideration. 4493. Whoever supports the government bill, including it in the agenda of the session, please vote. 4493, please vote. [[11:22:48]] For 230 Decision taken. By the way, show me the factions. Thank you. The next one is 4536. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (4536). Dear colleagues, it's a government bill. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the bill 4536 in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[11:23:36]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next one is 4591. Draft Law on the Establishment of Business Ombudsperson (Governmental Bill). Dear colleagues, 4591. Whoever supports this bill 4591, except for the inclusion of the agenda, please vote. Please vote 4591. [[11:24:11]] For 261 Decision taken. The next one is 4594. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. Society, this isn't a discussion. It's 4594. 4594. It's true that he is. Colleagues, you can express your position by voting. 4594. Well now every voice in the weight and position of each faction matters. 4594. Who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session (government bill), please vote. 4594, please. [[11:25:10]] For 274 Decision taken. The next one is 4437. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. This is the Presidential Bill, the Presidential Bill. I ask with special consideration for the vote. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 4437, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:25:58]] For 281 Decision taken. The next one is 4373. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility for managing vehicles in an alcoholic, drug or other drunken state or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed). Andrew Teteruk, our heroic MP, the author of this bill. Who supports the 4373 inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 4373, please vote. [[11:26:49]] For 293 Decision taken. All the drunks who drive, Mr. Teteruk, will tremble. The next bill is 4294, a draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act. It is once again Mustafa Najem, the author, who is extremely important, needs a quick decision. 4294 please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:27:33]] For 266 266 for. The decision is made, congratulations to the author. Next: 4214, 4214-1, 4214-2. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on financing reconstruction, the ongoing repair of road traffic in general use of public value throughout Ukraine. This is a project of the national deputy Pavelek. They go next door: base 4214 and alternate 4214-1 and 4214-2. Dear colleagues who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session please vote, colleagues, 4214, for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, vote! [[11:28:37]] For 246 Decision taken. Next. 4034 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to address issues related to natural gas supply. The National MP's project. And there is also an offer to include it in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, 4034, in the order of the day session. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:29:21]] For 269 Decision taken. And, dear colleagues, we were contacted by our colleague, Minister of Education, Lilia Greenevich, and asked to be reintroduced into the order of the day session 4524. She's actually asking us to just put it in the order of the day session. The head of the Education Committee, with whom we have worked for many years, also asks Krivenko to convince us that we can support it. I'll do it again, society, will do it -- we'll do it, we won't do it, we won't do it. Request from Lilia Greenevich: 4524, inclusion in the agenda Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, 4524. Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[11:30:28]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for understanding. We must have cooperation, we must have understanding with our ministers. And that's just getting into the agenda of the day session. And, dear colleagues, I remind you that I have already reminded you twice, but I have to remind you once again that under the Ukrainian Law, when there is a bill that is included. Suggests the President to put the day's session in order as urgent, I have to put it to a vote. The President of Ukraine defined Bill 4645 on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine) as urgent. [[B in m in s a l in]] The procedure for the consideration of draft laws, which have been defined by the President as urgent, is regulated by article 101 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop pressing on the presidency! [[B in m in s a l in]] You have the right to step out of your seat. Once again here, near the rostrum, there'll be pressure on me, I'll even stop communicating with those deputies. You'll have a seat and you'll be performing! I'm making a proposal to the committee. And I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to consider today's session of Bill 4645 amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the consideration. Please vote, colleagues who support this proposal. Please vote. [[11:32:39]] For 256 256 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to review the reduced procedure. If this proposal from the drafters is supported, I will put it to the vote. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. 4645 – short procedure. [[11:33:19]] For 225 225 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report, and I invite you to the report. I invite you to report to King Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please turn it on. Please, King Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Hello, do you copy?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u79	Yes, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to hear about this bill that was passed by a group of national deputies. And I want to inform you that this bill is making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the Prosecutor's Office Act and some changes to the Law on the Inviolability of Punishment and the State Bureau of Investigation. According to that number of people, the factions who approached me asked for some positions in this law. I can conclude that there is no need to go into detail about this law, and that everyone knows its purpose and knows it. But some novelties I still want to say. First. We settled in this law the conflict that arose from the creation of the National Bureau of Investigation, that is, we allowed the prosecution authorities to investigate these cases until the end and then transfer them to the newly created Bureau of Investigation. Realizing that this is a very responsible matter, we have increased the responsibility of transferring all materials to the National Bureau of Investigation. State Bureau of Investigation. And that's why they offered to do it at the signature of only the President. The Attorney General. Dear fellows! I also want to point out that, following the insistence of my colleagues, some adjustments have been made in technical regulations. A clarification is also proposed: paragraph 3 of the 20th Prime. after the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, first of all, to take your emotions off in the hall. All those who wish to speak will act on the bill. Quiet, please! All will speak, no one will be deprived of the right of speech provided for in the Constitution. Now for the alternative. I consulted with the committee yesterday. The chairman of the committee will now be speaking, and he will say his position on the matter. I don't deny considering an alternative if that's the position of the committee. Let's have a professional discussion. According to the law, I'm putting it under review, we're considering it according to the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I ask you to abide by the Rules of Procedure! And I give the floor to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the legislative protection of the law - enforcement activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u82	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u83	Excuse me! Please come in. Mr. Andrew, the King says he's finished speaking, yes, you're not finished. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u84	I just wanted to say that Mr. Victor Mikolaiovich, he's two minutes short, he can't say what to say. Because the choice he has right now, I don't think he can vote at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u85	Then I'll give you two minutes, you'll finish the report, and then I'll give Andrew Kozemyakina for her co-reports. Please King Viktor Mikolaiovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to be screened for technical editing. A clarification is also proposed: paragraph three, paragraph 20 prime. After the word "codex," add the words (note!) "in the event of the commission of the crimes mentioned in paragraph 2 of this paragraph," and still follows the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u87	Are you done? Thank you. Please, Kožemykakin Andriy Anatoliyevich, gives the floor to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the committee received yesterday from the Speaker of the Supreme Council, and here I have a letter in my name saying that this bill 4645 is urgent and should be considered by the President. The president, pursuant to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, defined it as an urgent matter for further consideration by the committee. So yesterday, on the committee, it was decided to put it in the agenda and consider it. The committee has considered this bill and another bill, except for 4645, we have not seen it. I mean, with all due respect to my self-help colleagues, I didn't see him, he was five o'clock yesterday. So, please, this will be defined as a hall if the decision to treat it as an alternative is not dependent on Cosmiakin. The hall makes a decision, and please consider it in the hall. As far as Bill 4645 is concerned, I can say the only thing. Most of the votes on the committee yesterday are the bill recommended to the Supreme Council during its consideration of acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. From the Radical Party of Kirichenko Alexei Passing the word to Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There is now a conspiracy in Parliament, a conspiracy between the so-called democratic coalition that is not there, and an oligarchic group of regional MPs that voted in favour of the January 16 laws. Today's authorities, the President, Prime Minister Groisman, are not repulsed to negotiate with the regionals in order to take power in an unconstitutional way. A parliamentary coalition that is not available, signatures that no one has seen, members of which no one knows, but the whole society sees a real coalition is BPP, the People's Front, and the regionals. Look how many people are in this room right now. Both the dead and the living and the unborn were banished to allow the President to change the law for one person. We're talking about going to Europe. Show me at least one country in Europe where they change the law for one person! This is what they do in Asian despots, and that is what they do in Ukraine. Why is the president trying to change the law? Because the President, instead of actually reforming the public prosecutor's office, instead of the actual reform of the judicial system, wants to administer the prosecutor's office, the courts, the law enforcement agencies, in order to make them enforcers of political orders, in order to order them to open and close criminal cases. In contravention of regionals, the authorities are accounted for by corruption flows, customs, looting Ukrainian citizens, taking pensions, wages, raising gas prices to usurp power. I'll tell you what I see. It repeats what was at Yanukovich’s house. Janukovic did the same kind of impenetrable thing that most people today do. You'll end up just like Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u91	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. He's handing Chumaku, Victor Chumak. Please give Victor Chumaku of the main rostrum of the country a word of importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u92	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to say that the bill you're proposing today is exactly the case of mixed flies and cauldrons. And here we have to divide where the flies are and where the boilers are. There are perfectly correct rules for the suspension of DBR activities, and there are perfectly correct rules for the transfer of certain criminal cases to the Attorney General's Office. There are perfectly right rules regarding the possibility of a prosecutor’s office by persons who do not have a procurator’s degree. That's the right thing to do. But it is absolutely wrong that such positions may be occupied by people who do not have a higher legal education. It's not a political office, it's a professional job! And there has to be a very clear professional basis for making balanced procedural decisions that rely on the Attorney General. Why? We could have done it differently. Why, please tell me, the President did not go to the legal community, to the Council of Lawyers, to the Council of Judges, to the Council of Workers of Legal, Legal, Higher Education Institutions, to propose a proper lawyer who is very large in the country? We can refer to the legal names that there are today. This is the Constitutional Court's retired judge, and that's decent lawyers. And there's a lot of people like that. But what is happening now is a crisis of trust. The president doesn't trust anyone. The President needs his prosecutor, his attorney general on the board. And that's why these laws will be passed. But I want to address the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Andry Volodymyrovich, when you replaced this office, you made it very clear that I would do anything to ensure that the Rules and the Law were not violated in this room. I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u93	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u94	I would like to pay attention to both colleagues and Andrija Volodymyrovich to article 107 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "The bill is considered rejected if the proposed decisions to support it have not received the highest number of votes of the national MPs. Such a rejection of the bill is included in the minutes of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Item 2. A bill or bill that repeats it in essence rejected by the Supreme Council cannot be introduced at the current and subsequent sessions of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u95	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u96	"The reverse bill is being considered with appropriate reference to this in the database of draft electronic computer network bills on the Supreme Council website." Andrew Volodymyrovich, make your choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there has been a call to me, I want to answer. There is no director of the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a collegiate body, and there's committees, and there's a board that's making decisions. My job is to moderate. Hence, the decision is made by a professional committee that makes decisions and gives them to me. Let me remind you, my job is to take the committee's decision into account, put it to a vote. And I want to remind you that when there was no vote for the bill the previous time, there were no dozens of votes, and I was told that the bill was rejected. My job is to listen to the committee's decisions and put it to a vote. Hall's making a decision. And in this case, by putting it on the table, I'm getting out of the President's letter and the committee's decision. So I ask you to respect each other, and I also call on the basic law and the committee and the hall to make decisions. Once, one of the deputies here, Jaroslav Lesyuk, told me about elites: elites are the ones who are able to make decisions and lead. The worst thing the Ukrainian authorities can do is get rid of decisions. The leader's position is to make decisions. And today, when the Henprosecutor's office is in a terrible state, removing the problem, removing it is a crime in front of our country. We made very difficult and difficult decisions in that room once, two years ago, and then I was Secretary of the RNBO, and Turkinov was Head of the Supreme Council, but we made decisions, sometimes very difficult. We stood up for the country. And today I call for decisions, not to get away from the problems facing our country. Thank you. Please, Alona Shkrum. Julius Timoshenko gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u98	I am now addressing not so many colleagues who are sitting in Parliament, but those who are watching today throughout the country for the events that are taking place in the Supreme Council around the issue of the Attorney-General, the law and his appointment. And I can tell you that today it's not about the law, but it's about what's going on in the destruction of the rules of government of Ukraine: the state of Ukraine is being destroyed because it no longer relies on the Constitution, the law, the procedures. If the country does not rely on the procedure, the law, and the Constitution, chaos, disorder, and unconcernedness occur in the country. Human rights are also fundamentally violated. And I'm surprised it's done more brutally, more destructively than even the Yanukovich regime did. If such indulgences give you the "democratic" app, the "democratic" coalition, the "democratic" parties, remove this appendix and do not disgrace the name "democratic" and the essence of democratic procedures. And with regard to this law, there are three elements that are unacceptable. Please read the conclusion given by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. "The removal of the Attorney-General's requirement for legal education violates the key documents of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, where this requirement is directly written." What are you doing with the country?Oh, my God! Moreover, not only to the Attorney General, but also to prosecutors, the professional requirements are dropped. Appoint honest people but not unprofessional and helpless. You're throwing the country into chaos today. Second, human rights are being destroyed. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u99	Please, how much? One more minute, Julia Volodymyrna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u100	Practically every position of this law is contrary to the rights of the human being, which is enshrined in the Constitution, and most of all, it is by law. You can't make rules and order by name and by person. The absentee judiciary here will be applied by 32 articles of the Criminal Code, including 191 articles where anyone can fall. This creates such a mechanism of repression in the country when a person has no right to defend himself in court. What are you doing? Indicativeness is not the aspect and factor that should be guided in the administration of the country. Either the Supreme Council becomes the Supreme Council, or there is nothing for this Supreme Council to do in Ukraine as a governing body. Don't embarrass yourself and vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u101	Thank you. From "self-help" is Oleg Berezuk's word. Ostrika? Olena Sotnik. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u102	First of all, I'm very sorry that, you know, we live in democracy, that people in this room today cannot be held accountable for what they say. It was very hard to answer for what you said because there were so many lies here, including lies about the preparation of the document. Yesterday, only five times, the Rules were severely violated when the document was being prepared for consideration. The first time you didn't get an alternative, but self-help did. The second time the committee was introduced and the text of a law that was in fact already rejected by Parliament was registered in Parliament, this directly contradicts the legislation of Ukraine. The third time an alternative bill was not considered on the committee. Fourth, when it's ignored today and there's no way of sounding "self-help" about your alternative bill and allowing you to still choose the Attorney General on the basis of equal principles, on the basis of the competition. And now that this discussion is taking place in a room like this. But it's not the main thing, it's the main thing. I think this is a historic moment in Parliament. This law is equal to the laws of January 16. And you'll see who's going to vote for this law. Because it's a bill. Yes, in fact, those who voted in January 16 will vote in favour of this law today. Why? I'll explain. This law is covered by the reform of the prosecutor’s office, the impossibility of updating it, and should therefore be introduced by a new person who seems to be a politician. That's not true! We need to freeze criminal cases that have not been dealt with for two years now, and we have no results. That is why these people, who have not been tried by the Attorney General's Office, will vote in favour of this bill. We are firmly opposed, and we urge, including those under whom this law is written, not to make these infamous decisions. Because, in fact, the question is not in man, but in principle, the question is how you're going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u103	Please, 30 seconds, Mrs. Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u104	I ask you to have a state position, please listen very carefully to Egor Sobolev's report on the alternative self-help bill and vote in favour of the Attorney General's election on a transparent basis. There's a very big difference in this Parliament, you're afraid, and behind the walls people want justice, people want the irreversibility of punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u105	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! You can talk for a long time and talk about any subject, you can fight corruption for a long time and you can do nothing about it. Today, there is an anticorruption summit in London, where leaders from 40 countries gather to fight it at a global level. Let's show it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u107	Let us show that we can do this! [[B in m in s a l in]] He's lying down! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u108	I'm asking for your attention, and I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u109	He's lying down! Dude! I've always listened to you and found common ground! Now let's go back to the people who say who's voting right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u110	Speak!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u111	I'm sorry, we're being told that they're voting here as in the January 16 laws. And the new Henprosecutor who's ready to change the system that won't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] And part of the system. I have to do it! You want to cement! [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see the new blood in the Henprosecutor's office will do that! So who's to vote for a real change in the Henprosecutor's office, press the buttons! And who cements and works for the Henprosecutor's Office, which protects regions that can't be drawn to power, now have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] So shame on those who don't want to vote for the new changes in the Henprosecutor's office! [[B in m in s a l in]] We're opening the way to the changes in the Henprocurator's office. And shame to you who are the populists and traitors of the people of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you 30 seconds. Honorable colleagues do not get in the way of other factions. And that's something that's unacceptable when people who were standing side-by-side on the barricades on Maidan have this kind of attitude towards each other. I beg of you, there was no obstacle to anyone speaking. I ask you to have respect for each other. Dear colleagues, it will be one minute of Oksana Siroid, one minute of Irina Heratchenko, and we will proceed to the vote. Please, Oksana Siroid from the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u113	I want to address the President first. Mr. President, you were wrong when you said you wanted judicial reform. Because judicial reform is not possible without the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. And this bill, which you define as urgent today, is a far cry from court reform to quantum leap. With your own hands -- those who are voting for this bill today -- you are finally putting a tombstone on both the reform of the prosecutor's office and the reform of the judicial system. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u114	Thank you. Society, there was a warning that BPP actually made a nonfractional appearance. And Peter Dustenka's Block didn't have a chance to come forward. Please, Ariev from Peter Dustenka's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] From non-fractional, non-fractional. It's too frackable! And Vladimir Ariev is a member of the Peter Prashenko Block. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the problem with this Parliament is that there are a lot of words, a lot of self-piar -- and very little of the coefficient of beneficial action on the way out. Absolutely, and so is that. What are we doing today? We are talking today about the need to change the corrupt and corrupt public prosecutorial system that created the state in the state long ago and resists. What are we talking about today? That it can only be broken by someone who has political will? Are we just going to assign a lawyer, a pickaxe, to look at it just so that it's perfect for the whole procedure? But most of all, today, against that, against the changes in the prosecutor's office, there are now those who, with a few thousand dollars in the declaration, drive on Mercedes, live in luxury villas and fly at the expense of offshore companies on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I gave the floor to all factions. Sergei Leschenko, I'm sorry, I don't have the mechanism to give you my word right now. I'm giving the last performance. Irina Heratschenko, one minute. And let's go to the vote. One minute is the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I don't have a loud voice like the members of the Radical Party. That's why I'd ask for silence. Thank you for that. It seems to me that in this Parliament we have chosen the leaders of anti-corruption structures on competitive grounds. But choosing on a competitive basis is not yet the result. The result will be when these honourable leaders bring at least one matter to trial. And shame, in fact, is not about changing today's rotten prosecutor's code. It's a shame to take bribes for MPs! And look in the eyes of the electorate from the rostrum! So let's go to the vote, and the new Henprosecutor has to investigate everything that's been going on in Maidan, and in this room where there's a lot of voting, but they're actually leading a double life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to a proposal made by the committee, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office (4645), as amended by King Viktor Mikolayovich from the place, as proposed. by the Committee's conclusion on the basis and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:01:13]] For 258. 258 is "for", the decision is made. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've adopted many laws today as a whole: decommunization, police, and that's the same thing. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. We're meeting in the office at 12.05. Thank you for your active and productive work. At 12.35, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you. Good-bye. Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking colleagues of the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for further work. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I don't see enough deputies in this room. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for work. The following are the drafts that first read. 2413a, this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of functions from the state regulation of financial services markets. I'll put him up for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one request and offer. Colleagues, attention in the hall! Colleagues, a tax committee, had already considered Bills 42 during the break. 4542, which relates to the withdrawal of pension taxes. I know that this bill brings together all the deputies in the hall. And I will appeal to you if there is such a will for us to look at it today. Everyone, yes, of course. If that's the will of the hall, if we gather and restore the mobilisation situation, ready to cooperate, I'm going to ask the hall to vote and consider it now, because there's a committee decision. I would also like to point out that we have Bill 4288, which is very important to the army. I've talked about this over and over again, how many volunteers. There's a table. Ivanchuk was accepted by the Committee yesterday at 3 p.m. And I'll ask the secretariat for a table. It's in the computers. I'm asking you personally. It's given out, isn't it, a table? Mr. Yuri, it's on the table. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have in writing what difference does it make to you, Mr. Yuri? I'm saying I'm not putting him on right now. I'm going to ask you to consider the issue of national security and defence today. These are questions that should not be held hostage to any political issue. Dear colleagues, I have a great request to you right now that we may consider and withdraw the pension tax, and the military bill. Now I'm going to put 4524 on the table. I'll tell you what's gonna happen. If there are not enough votes for a reduced procedure, it will take an hour. It'll take an hour. And we're going to be less likely to be able to draft the following bills. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies into the Hall. I'm asking the factions and heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Because we're all calling on the government to get a draft on pension taxes faster, we're all talking on the air about how we want to support our army. And now there's a chance that we can do that. This requires being in the hall and making decisions and voting. Now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure of 2413a. And I'm counting on your support very much to take it up with a reduced procedure. Although if there is no room will, of course we will follow full procedure. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm stressing the causal link again. If we work effectively, we'll have a chance to withdraw our pension taxes, we'll have a chance to support the army. If we're still in political discussions, we're not going to have a chance to make important decisions that everyone in this room theoretically supports, but it's not just in theory that we need to make and vote in practice. Dear colleagues. Take it and do it, yeah, take it and do it. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I explained the logic of our actions. And I'm voting on a motion for a short-term motion for a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of public regulation of financial services markets. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote and please support. Colleagues, we're voting on a reduced procedure, please. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:44:23]] For a hundred and I just explained the logic. I'll explain it again. We didn't make it, I see we didn't make it. But I'll try to explain it to my colleagues again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, there's a raised hand. Dear colleagues, once again, we are now after this bill, I'm going to draft a bill on the withdrawal of pension taxes, on the support of the Ukrainian army, on the repurchase, 4288. But in order for us to make these decisions, we are willing to work effectively. I'm addressing my colleagues, including Self-Help, if you have an understanding of the process, if you have an understanding of the process, so that we can make important decisions, I ask you to support the consideration of the simplified procedure now in this bill. I ask colleagues, especially the factions that support the government, of the factions that made commitments, to go into the hall and prepare for work. And now, once again, I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. Heads of factions, please mobilize the factions to vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Colleagues, please come into the hall and ask the heads of factions to call the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, one more minute, and I'll put it to the vote again. Please come into the hall, take jobs, take too long a break, too long. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Dear colleagues, I have just received information from the secretariat that the first two bills to report to Šimkov Dmitry Anatoliyovich, unfortunately he is not here, he is coming to us. And since there are no reports under the two laws, the Rules do not allow us to consider them, we await the reporter. Under the Rules, without a report, we cannot be considered. The next one is 3768. Is Janchuk Anton Volodymyrovich the Deputy Justice Minister? Is there Yanchuk Anton Volodymyrovich? It's not, either, is it? Dear colleagues, I have a question for our officials. Did you know that today is the day-to-day government issue? We have the next question that we can consider, there is no Yanchuk Anton Volodymyrovich. The next one is 3584. Is Arjev Vladimir Igorovich in the hall? Are you ready to report? Ready to report 3584? Dear colleagues, now that there are no rapporteurs for the four bills, we are waiting for them, now I am considering a proposal for a reduced procedure to review the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of relations in the field of transport parking. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare who supports the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. [[12:52:14]] For-143 143 for. I'll put it again, colleagues, I see we're not there yet. I ask you very much to be employed when voting, not to travel through the halls and watches. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote again. I am voting once again on the motion to review the shortened procedure for the draft Law 3584. Anyone who supports this motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting 3584. Please vote. [[12:53:11]] For-151 151, in favor, the decision is made. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u120	My fellow Members, I would still like to see as many national MPs as possible back in the hall when this bill is under consideration, because today we are looking at a bill that completely brings to European standards the rules of parking and the responsibility for parking. This is a bill that allows Armageddon to be eliminated on the streets of big cities. This is a bill that will allow parking fees to go beyond cash schemes today, but only on a cash-free basis. And it gives the local authorities the right to make a cash-free calculation, to choose any one. You understand that the existing parking regulation system has legislative organizational flaws, and most importantly, it is the inability to bring responsibility to drivers who do not pay for parking services; mass violations by drivers of parking rules; cash accounting; and the inability of the police to respond to these things because the rules that allow them to be fined in absentia are not available today in legislation. But these standards are in all European countries today. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about reforming our society, reforming our country, this bill is one of those reformers who puts parking rules in line with European standards. This is the bill that will significantly increase the budgets of the local authorities, and cover the pockets of those parts that are currently being used in various parking spaces, and the local authorities through cash, cash circulation, where the cash circulation for parking fees does not receive this money. I very much ask you all to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u121	Thank you. Who will be speaking from the committee? From the committee. It's not, is it? Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a record: two for, two against. Please record: two for, two against. I'd like to report that there's already Dmitry Anatolyevich in the hall. And after those bills have been completed, we are to you. We'll be your bills when we're done. Now we're looking at others. Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u122	The Self-Help faction clearly supports the intention to sort out parking issues, because it actually creates a lot of problems in all major cities. We know traffic jams in Kiev, we know traffic jams in Lviv. Only properly organized procedures can ensure normal road traffic and avoid accidents and injuries. It is also very important to stimulate and create opportunities for underground and ground parking that are widespread throughout the civilized world, but unfortunately there is no one in Ukraine. The arrival of investors in the parking market is only possible when we have an orderly parking fee system in the cities. In fact, the bill is one of the steps in the implementation of civilized norms. It is also important to organize the work of evacuees, since in many places there is a ban and the approach is right, since in many places it poses major obstacles to transportation. Therefore, we invite everyone to support the bill. The Self-Help faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u123	Thank you very much. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u124	Please give the word to my colleague, Alexandra Volodymyrni Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, realizing that the problem is very important, we would like to point out that there are very serious warnings. First of all, we're confident that no investor in our Ukraine will build anything, because before we start building something, it's very demanding bribes. That's the first one. Secondly, as long as there is no requirement in the general plans for all cities that any construction is possible in the construction of underground parking spaces, this whole law can simply be placed on the shelf. Thirdly, it is predicted that rural, rural, urban councils are allowed to identify such a figure as an inspector of parking space. This is the new one we're going to have as a public superintendent who is given the right by this law. You hear he has the right to make temporary detention of means of transport. So tomorrow Uncle Vanya in some town will decide that he wants to get money from you, bribe. He's holding up your car. You're late, you give him 100 or 200 bucks and you move on. This law is not perfect, it does not solve the issue of parking because it does not have the political will of executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u126	Thank you. Next to the Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. He'll be speaking from the Peter Prashenko bloc, and at the same time he'll report on the position of the committee. Please, Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Turn on the microphone. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u127	Please give me your word. Pass the word to Bilocerkovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u128	It's a white churchman. Turn on the microphone. Colleagues, I'll let you know, the system works so well that when you report the last name to which you pass it automatically includes that microphone. Just speak more clearly, and it will include. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u129	Thank you. This is a comprehensive bill, there are three. Now we have a very big problem with what is, in fact, a parking problem in all cities. We ask very much for support in the first reading, and for the colossal ones. What is there will be adjusted to the second reading. These bills are three. For the city of Kiev and other major cities, this is a vital bill. Because we really have a very large amount of chaotic parking, and for cities and city administrations and city councils, it is very important to bring the issue in order for us to have a working relationship. So I ask all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u131	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens, as the substance of the bill under consideration. The bill introduces, strengthens administrative responsibility, introduces a new mechanism for administrative responsibility in photo shoots, video shoots. That is to say, a legislative instrument is in fact in place to bring everyone to this administrative responsibility to pay a fine to supplement the local budgets of the State. On the one hand, this rule is effective for disciplining drivers, but in order to address the issue of parking which is imperative and which are not permitted by the current authority, as the drafters do not propose an integrated approach to regulating parking spaces in urban areas, no conditions are created for determining plans, building parking data, setting up parking records, and no conditions for underground parking. That is, the conditions under which it would be possible for drivers not to leave their cars in the first place, because such places do not exist, but to leave their cars in pre-arranged locations. At the same time, the legislator took the path of least resistance. He imposed strict administrative sanctions for non-compliance with those rules that were not possible because, as I said earlier, the legislator did not take care to develop a network of parking spaces so as not to develop an underground parking network. Therefore, because of the lack of an integrated approach, the opposition bloc faction will not support the bill, since it cannot be punished for not creating a normal environment for it to create normal parking spaces in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u132	From the People's Front, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the relevant conclusion of this bill, which is given to everyone who can be consulted. And there's a general conclusion at the end where it's recommended that the bill be returned. But the relevance of this bill is probably, but let's look at a rather important point today that we have in our first reading an adopted bill on municipal watch, where clearly prescribed municipal guard powers, which are also intersecting and intersecting in this bill. So, I think, in order not to duplicate any authority, not to impose a whole range of functions on the various organs of municipal enterprises, then the municipal guard, the police, will be a pretty big overlap on these issues -- I recommend today that this bill be postponed, not considered. Vote a bill on municipal watch and then see how it works. And then, if you have to, maybe even file a bill about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds, finish if necessary. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And, dear colleagues, I now address all factions and the People's Front, including. It's about first reading, colleagues. We're going to be able to have a professional discussion between first and second reading, make all the necessary corrections and all the warnings that Alexander Kugel made, which also made the People's Front. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Yes, while the MPs come in, the word Palamarczuk will come from the committee. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall. Please, Palamarczuk. Turn on Palamarchuku's microphone from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement in its session has considered the bill 3584, approved and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis, adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are preparing to vote. Please come to the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. Mr. Briginetz, please return to the hall. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote. First, the rating vote. So that we can see, on the basis of it, the possibility of voting. So I'm going to put the ratings vote, because now it's going to be 3584, which Ariev reported in the hall. So please take part in the rating vote. Please vote, vote. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. [[13:07:31]] For 148 There is no political will to consider these bills. Dear colleagues, look, we have a Deputy Chief of Administration of the Ukraine of Šimkov Dmitry Anatoliyovich. And there are two very important bills. And let's do it, they were sitting in our living room. We jumped them just because there wasn't a reporter. And therefore, for your permission on a daily basis, I propose that 2414a: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Consolidation of Functions from the State Regulation of Financial Services Markets. And there's a suggestion from the reporter that we consider it as a reduced procedure, right? Dear colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure of 2414a, please vote. Anyone who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Vote. [[13:08:49]] For-152. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the report, you will be able to report from the post of Deputy Chief of Administration of Ukraine, Šimkov Dmitry Anatoliyovich. First, 2414a. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the development of the market for non-bank financial services and its main segments is one of the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u138	Dmitri Anatolyevich, I'm sorry, first 2413a. It's as basic as I'm told. 13a and then 14a. Start with 13a, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask for another vote. Also, under the reduced procedure, these are two related bills, one of which is fundamental and depending on what the decision will be. I'm also asking you to support 2413a so that we can look at the simplified procedure. Those who support this proposal, colleagues, concentrate, please vote. Anyone who supports the proposal, please vote. 2413a. Short-term procedure. Please vote. [[13:10:11]] For-142 Dear colleagues, once again I ask the MPs to concentrate, especially the faction of the President. This bill will be reported by the Deputy Chief of Administration. I'm going to re-vote the reduced procedure. I am very much asking to take up jobs and take part in the vote. I will put it to the vote again, and I ask you to take part in this vote. I'm voting on a reduced procedure, and so is Bill 2413a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, vote. Vote. [[13:11:19]] For-151 Decision taken. So let's go over two bills. The first is 2413a. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the national deputies of Ukraine! You will be mindful of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the consolidation of the functions of the State regulation of financial services markets, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. In order to improve the efficiency of the financial services market, the bill proposes to amend a number of Ukrainian legislative acts. These changes include the transfer of powers to the National Commission, which regulates and supervises the functioning of financial services markets in part of the regulation and supervision of the system of accrual pensions, regulation and supervision of financial and credit mechanisms and the management of assets in the construction of housing and real estate operations to the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. The rest of the authority of the National Commission for Financial Services is proposed to be transferred to the National Bank of Ukraine. Also in view of the marked changes in the consolidation of the functions and the national regulation of financial services markets, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities and the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity with a view to harmonizing the principles and order of implementation of the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Commission on Securities and the Funding Market for License and Regulatory Activities. In addition, with a view to eliminating excessive regulation, it is proposed to repeal the Law on Mortgage Loans, Consolidated Mortgage and Mortgage Certificates and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Society Trust. The introduction of the legislative changes will provide a legal basis for stopping duplication of functions of national regulators in financial markets, simplifying and transparent management decisions in this area, and improving business conditions. In view of the above, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u140	Thank you very much. And I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking by Douben Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u141	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting on September 15, 2015, discussed the bill. The bill proposes the redistribution of State regulation of financial activity from the national commission, which regulates the state in the field of financial services markets, to the National Bank and the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. I would like to say to my colleagues that today, according to Nazicomfinservices, 2,000,564 financial institutions are responsible for the supervision of which will be distributed among other regulators, namely the National Bank and the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. What I'm saying is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, referred to the need to have an appropriate expert opinion from the National Bank. The National Bank concluded by expressing conceptual support for the bill. The government's conclusion, as well as the committee's, has been informed of the support of the bill by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The National Securities and Stock Market Commission, and the National Commission for Government Regulation in Financial Services Markets, are in favour of a decision. Unfortunately, the committee divided 50 votes by 50. Therefore, as a result of the consideration and discussion of the bill, we propose that the Supreme Council decide in the session room how to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please, Swamp Grigory Mikhailovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u143	Please pass the word to your colleague Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the market is waiting for this bill and the next one is 2414a, which we will consider afterwards. That's the point. This is because the National Commission, which supervises financial services markets and parts of functions are passed on to the National Securities Commission, the stock market, and some of the functions are passed on to the National Bank. So the number of government institutions is decreasing, the number of officials is decreasing. Given that the National Bank and the National Securities Commission, the stock market, are more structured, control will be better, better. The question of stimulating the market for non-bank financial services has long come to light. This law is part of the priority laws that the group is working on, the reform task force, and it's part of the main bills that we think we need to adopt in the near future. This law introduced by the President, I would like to point out that the President has defined it as urgent. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Lavrick Oleg, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u146	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help. Indeed, this law allows most of the participants in the stock market to be translated under. the regulation of the financial and stock market to be transferred under the regulation of the National Bank. When the bill was considered both on the committee and discussed with financial market participants, most of the warnings to the bill were related to the fact that the National Bank, as a cautionary structure, today could not properly regulate the financial market. I propose to move away from principles when we block or block the reform of the entire market by looking at a person who temporarily assumes the responsibilities of a head of government or an institution. Also, the situation where we are changing the General Prosecutor’s Office law today is that this is a wrong situation that we need to get rid of as soon as possible. The self-help union will support this law on the basis of the law, and the second reading will be subject to appropriate regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I'd like to continue my colleague's speech, but I would like to stress that, unfortunately, the cadres decide everything. And today, to authorize Mrs. Gottari, who lost, practically, lost the banking system to nothing, to give her financial services, nonbank organizations, to give some audit that had never been subordinated to the National Bank for 21 years, because there is one part of the audit of banks, and there is no way to give all the market control, to hand over control over nonstate pension funds! I'm sorry, as you say, it's temporary, but it's not temporary, it's going to lose the last financial markets that are in Ukraine. Why do we have the right to say this? How much did we not ask the Central Bank to help with the situation that destroyed the credit unions in which the most vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine were affected? There was no oligarch. But the National Bank didn't care until they lost them, and now the last of the credit unions is about to close. Nothing will be considered necessary for her. We're increasing the number of counselors here. And so, unfortunately, I want to tell you, we will support financial sector reforms when people are decent and professional. Thank you. We don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u149	Thank you very much. Your Honor, have all those who wish to speak on the bill already expressed themselves? Everybody, right? I have an offer to discuss two bills at once. They are fully connected, and without each other they will not be able to work. And then we're both going to define by voting. And so I ask now, I invite you to the report on Bill 2414a of Vice-President Šimkov Dmitry Anatoliyovich of Ukraine. Please report, and then there will be a vote for both.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The reduction in the number of public oversight bodies, deregulation and reduction of the direct influence of the State on private business are in line with EU standards and with the specific position of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states, on the other hand. For the purpose of implementing the indicated powers, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Consolidation of Functions of State Regulation of Financial Services Markets, which relates to Bill 2413a. The purpose of the bill is to improve the efficiency of the public regulation system of financial services markets by amending existing legislation aimed at halting duplication of functions of national regulators with licensing, control and supervision, simplification and transparency of management decisions. The bill is related to a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the consolidation of public regulation of financial services markets (registration number 2413a). Yes, the bill proposes to exclude from the Ukrainian Tax Code the provision on the taxation of mortgage-based mortgage-based mortgage-backed mortgage-based certificates in connection with the repealing of the Ukrainian Law itself on Mortgage Loaning Transactions, Mortgage Certificates, as provided for in the related bill (registration number 2413a). The bill is also intended to address the issue of insurance taxes, insurance payments to natural persons due to changes in the financial services regulator and, accordingly, insurance activities taking into account the methodology will be determined by the National Bank of Ukraine. The proposed changes will enhance the efficiency of national regulatory policies, ensure competition in the financial services market and enhance the development of the non-bank financial services market. In view of the above, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt the proposed bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u151	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! As you have already understood, this bill is a derivative and is essentially technical to the Ukrainian President's draft bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of the functions of the government regulation of financial services markets. The committee considered the draft law at its meeting and considered it. Considering that the bill can only be adopted if the law is passed. draft Law 2413a states that recommending a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be adopted on the basis of the adoption of the basic law. Pending the adoption of the basic law on the bill, please do not make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u153	Thank you. We've heard the profile committee's position and now we're moving on to the discussion. Please sign in: two for, two against. Please have a discussion. Dear colleagues, there is no one willing to discuss this bill. Is there a summary word for the head of the profile committee and for Dmitri Shimkov? Please, Mrs. Nina, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, it is clear to all that we must now make a decision on the basic law first and only then can technical remedies be applied to the Ukrainian Tax Code. So let's define first with the regulator and then we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, so the head of Mrs. Yuzanin's committee of profile stresses the extremely important position that these two bills are 2413a and 2414a, they're essentially in a package, and we need to move from a discussion to a vote. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, And now we're putting 2413a to the vote. Please, Your Honor, support the 2413a signal vote. [[13:26:28]] For 155
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we don't have a voice in this room again. It's Thursday at 13:26, colleagues, it's Thursday at 13:26. I have a simple question: how do we plan to accept it? We have the next bill, 4288, the second reading, which is very important for the Ukrainian army, which is very important for providing our boys with an advance today. But I'm afraid to put him to a vote, because we can question him in general. Colleagues, respectable colleagues, national security issues. I received a call today from the National Guard Commander, the Secretary of Defense. How can we strike up the Ukrainian army during the war with our bobbing, colleagues? Now I'm going to make a decision on how to proceed. Dear colleagues, in connection with the results of the rating vote, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I'm asking you to gather everyone in the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our evening session. Thank you.
