ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time spent for a lunch break has improved. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the evening session. [[16:01:26]] A total of 351 deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day, our next question is the rereading of the first 2966. Is there a reporter in the hall? Unfortunately, honourable colleagues do not have a report on Bill 2966 in the hall. According to the Rules, I cannot put him on the stand without a report. So let's move on to the next bill. Is Aunt Petrovna in the hall? None. Yes, I was informed that Dombrowski had come. I remind my distinguished colleagues that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine starts at 4 p.m., not at 4 p.m., not at 4 p.m., not at 4:10 p.m., not at 4:15 p.m., but at 4:00 p.m. I know, I know, I'm just stressing it. When I was a deputy, I ran headlong to arrive at the beginning of our meeting. Thus, we begin our consideration of the draft National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and utilities. — No. 2966. There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 2966. Please vote. [[16:06:59]] For 1052 The decision is not made. There is no political will to consider the reduced procedure. And that's why we're starting to consider the full procedure. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of Dombrovsky Alexander Hergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u2	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would very much like you all to concentrate, because this will now be a very important bill, which is one of the fundamental pillars for reforming the energy sector of Ukraine. This is a bill of 2966 on the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities. I would like to remind all the national MPs that this bill is part of the three fundamental bills that our partners expect of us and that Ukraine has committed itself to the European Union in the framework of the Association Agreement with the European Union and in the framework of the Coalition Agreement, which must be implemented without delay. The bill was introduced by the government, which was considered in the Supreme Council, which was brought back to the committee to work on the first reading and returned here for voting. During the discussions that took place in the Supreme Council Hall and in the process of discussion, the discussions that took place in the Committee had several key points regarding the creation of an independent regulator. In order to understand more, perhaps in a simple language, it's actually de facto and de jure about creating a national regulator as the National Bank we have in the area of finance, in this case it's about creating a national regulator in the energy sector of Ukraine. This is a clear and firm requirement of the European Union for Ukrainian legislation to meet the requirements of the Third Energy Package and this bill fully meets these requirements. What key points did we have in our discussions when we discussed the formula of this bill? The point was that there would be 7 independent members of the NCRE, who would be elected for 7 years. The panel discussion was on the Nomination Commission, which should consist of five of the most authoritative, professional experts in the field of energy and energy services, and which should recommend at the open competition those candidates to the NCRE that would be appointed by the President's decree. I would like to remind you that after the registration of this bill, after the government, from the submission of the government, the formula of the Nomination Commission was to be a follower: two representatives from the President, two representatives from the Supreme Council and one representative from the Cabinet of Ministers or the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. During the extremely hot discussions that we had on the Committee, the Committee decided and voted that all 5 representatives of the Nomination Committee should be recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by procedure: 3 members of the Nomination Commission from the faction of the Fuel and Energy Committee and 2 representatives from the factions through the Committee of Construction, Architecture and Housing. There were heated discussions, but it was this formula that was declared by the committee. Second position. The financial position of the NCRE, because at the request of our partners and at the request of the judges that this body should be independent, is that the National Commission should be financially independent and work against the deductions that may be, as contributions, on the energy market. But the annual budget of the National Energy Regulatory Commission should, in accordance with this bill, be approved by the National Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the third position, the last one, is the question of replacing the members of the NCRE who are working today with those who have to go through the right competition and be voted on. The document determines that the first three members of the NCRE should be amended no later than 6 months after the beginning of our bill, the other two after 18 months not later than 30 months. Therefore, the issue of the rotation of members of the NCRE National Commission is set here quickly enough to update the composition. And the last thing I'd like to say is that there were hot discussions, co-authors after the draft of this bill are representatives of all the MP factions that are represented in this Parliament, this bill has gone through a wide range of discussions in various expert environments. And I'm only focusing on two key points. First. This bill is proposed to be adopted in the first reading and to work on essentially the key points that can be discussed between the first and the second readings. And I would like to stress that this bill in this way is in two order, and I would like to emphasize, two orders better than the absence of this bill in such an important area of energy sector regulation. And the second important aspect of Ukraine's financial, macro-financial support and reforms in Ukraine's energy sector is our commitment. And this bill is one of those packages that are linked to financial support of $1.8 billion to the European Union, which relates to rapid, decisive, transparent reform of the Ukraine’s energy sector. So I, on behalf of the committee of profile, on behalf of those national MPs who co-sponsored this bill and I, including, encourage all factions to discuss, discuss and adopt this bill in the first reading so that it can be worked on and worked out the necessary formulas in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u3	Thank you. Alexander Georgievovich, please stay on the rostrum, you are both a reporter from the authors and from the committee. And there's a question. On the question, we're not going to set three minutes, we're going to set six minutes, because you're going to report it, and you're going to report it. And I'm asking a fellow MP who would like to ask a question to the interviewer to sign up for the address, please record it. Controversy Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u4	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Indeed, reforming the energy sector is quite important. And this bill, I think there's going to be no indifference and everyone's going to support it. But I have a question, Alexander Grigorovich, first of all, why is the slow release and extension of the present members of the NCRE? And will there be any misunderstandings or misunderstandings when the NCRE candidates are identified, because they will be identified as you said, just two committees? That's why I'm asking, first and secondly, to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear Ivan Dmitrovitch, I may repeat some of these, but the formula of the Nomination Commission to elect members of the independent regulator to the bill that the government was proposing was different than the one that we are discussing today. There was agreement on the formula with our European partners that two members of the Nomination Commission are coming from the President, two members of the Nomination Commission are coming from the Supreme Council, and one member of the Nomination Commission is coming from the government or from the Minpolivenergo. In the process of discussion, a decision was taken, taking into account that Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential state and considering that we should create as independent and impartial as possible, and a professional regulator, the committee by a majority decided that five members of the Nomination Commission should be elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u6	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u7	As for the term rotation, we've taken the experience of the countries of the European Union, those countries that have gone through this difficult stage, and we need to understand clearly and realize that, in this way, one stroke of feathers is to take and change all the people who work and who form the structure of tariffs, the structure of the energy sector, the structure of the generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u8	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u9	Thus, a decision was made not later. Three waves, but not later. You can do it sooner.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u10	Leo Podlisecki
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u11	Dear reporter, distinguished leader! I actually have a non-legislative issue, because, of course, I know it very well, as you and I worked together, and we know all the benefits and needs of that law. I would like to say, in fact, about the importance of this bill in context, including the potential privatization of energy objects and, in fact, perhaps more of a question here, is for Mr. Paris, because successful privatization and successful activity in the electricity market can be a guarantee that this bill can be adopted, which is extremely important, so that there is no manual non-professional regulation and also a question if the electricity market is implemented. And the bill is, waiting for inclusion in the agenda and voting in the first reading. And there's one important thing about this is that the bill's author is the Cabinet of Ministers. With the potential change in the Cabinet of Ministers, this bill is duly recalled, so there is a huge request from the committee, from me and everyone to put it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u12	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u13	and to vote accordingly in parallel with that law or immediately after this Law on the Market in Electricity on the first reading that it has already become the property of the Supreme Council and then will not be called off by the change of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u14	Tell the bill number.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u15	4196.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I would also like to support the position of the committee and the national deputy of Lviv Podlisecki. Because these two bills and the one we're discussing right now and the electricity market bill are extremely important, and it's desirable that we adopt them in a synchronized manner, because it's a large number of secondary legislation that should be voted on in sync, including in the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u18	Please, Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u19	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchkowska Natalya, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, dear reporter! We will also, the People's Front faction, support the voting of this important bill in the first reading. But you wanted to ask one of the most important questions discussed on the committee to know your opinion. At the moment, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for special commission status and does not actually have a place in the system of executive authorities. What do you see about the commission's location, who should eventually appoint the commissioners, and how should the committee find its place in the regulation of the energy market in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u21	Mrs. Natalie, we've discussed this enough, at least we've taken better practice on the formula of an independent controller and we've agreed on this position. Debate on change, change or change the Constitution is a particular subject, but what we need today is a professional, transparent regulator, I think there is no doubt about it. So in the law, in this bill, these functions are prescribed. And with regard to the changes to the Constitution, I don't think that's the subject of today's discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u22	Thank you. And the last question is Ivan Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u24	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Mr. Alexander, thank you for your serious and thorough approach to this bill. I have two questions. First. Please tell me, as far as the head of the commission is concerned, everything is clear, by appointment, which order of appointment of the members of the National Energy Regulatory Commission is the first. And the second question. How are the discharge procedures determined for both the heads of the commission and the members of the National Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u25	I would like to emphasize once again that the five members of the Nomination Commission are working and that the necessary documents from those who want, want and meet the criteria for highly professional criteria from the point of view of experience, from the point of view of educational experience, from the point of view of practice of those who may be members of the National Commission. The nominee commission chooses independently, selects two candidates for each position and submits this proposal to the President of Ukraine. On this basis, the President of Ukraine makes a choice and approves the members of the commission. Similarly, the President has the right to lay off. So we've tried here to balance the possibilities of different branches of power, on the one hand -- parliament, on the other hand -- and the President's powers, which should be clear, which should be very strong, because it's about the energy security of the state and the power of the President of the country should be strong enough here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u26	Thank you. Time for speeches, time for questions is up. You can take your place. And I'm asking the factions to sign up for the talks. So please record from factions. Kirilenko of the Fatherland passes the word Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u27	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, well, working on this bill on the committee has shown all the inadequacy of our executive power, and that's why we're changing it. I hope we can do this as soon as possible. Because when we got this bill, the most controversial was who would appoint the commissioners of these and who would have control over them, not the quality of the commission's work, not the quality and transparency of the mechanisms. And we've voted down this bill several times before and rejected it. And I want to point out the very professional and professional work of the entire committee, of all the factions and non-fractional, also with civil society, with experts, with international experts. So today on the first reading, it's a compromise, and we're asking that the committee be able to process it for the second reading. That is, according to the "Fatherland" faction, there are several disadvantages to this bill that must be resolved before the second reading. The first is licensing. According to the proposed drafting of the bill, the commission itself develops and approves the licensing conditions, and this is contrary to the Ukrainian law on licensing, which requires that there be only one authority to approve such licensing conditions, and this body should become the Kabmin. Moreover, licensing conditions should be clear, transparent, and excluded from subjective licensing, and therefore, to avoid such subjectivity, the role of a reference between the licensing authority and the licensees takes over the Kabmin. Secondly, the issue of opaque tariffs and the excessive tariffs that we now have has become a need for consumer protection and we need to create an institution for the protection of the rights of consumers of gas, electricity, water and energy. We've written it in this bill and we have to have it from the government or from the MPs in this institution. Perhaps competence is the solution to problems related to accounts, supplies and disruptions, provision of services, networking, payment tariffs, energy - ombudsman, this is a structure that is in European countries, it has to provide quick and affordable solutions to petty disputes and explain their rights to consumers. And thirdly, about the rotation. We have not resolved the issue of rotation and the simultaneous replacement of the entire composition of the NCRECR, which has in some ways discredited itself with incomprehensible tenders and an incomprehensible increase in tariffs. That's why I think the second reading of this issue must also be resolved in order for the "Paternity" faction to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Let's vote and support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u28	Victoria Vojticka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u29	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. Today, we are considering a bill on a regulator, a regulator to be that arbitrator, a protector for the ordinary consumer that we have been waiting for for many years. We're talking to you about an area the size of which is consistent with the State budget, over 300 billion dollars is turnover in this area. We're talking to you about Ukrainians who are paying today for tariffs that are completely unclear, how they're set up, what's the basis for calculation, what's the economic justification of one or another price that people pay every day for water, gas, heat. So we have to do everything we can to finally get the tool that will help us and every Ukrainian to protect the interests, interests of the consumer. We also need you to understand that this is the body that will also fight against natural monopolies. Monopolies, which were formerly state-owned, and are now largely controlled by oligarchs, oligarchs in their respective fields, oligarchs, who, for all these years, take their rent from us, from any Ukrainian. And that's why we think that delaying the adoption of this bill is not for the benefit of ordinary people, it's for the benefit of those oligarchs who, unfortunately, still dominate the energy sector. Which is also worth noting that we, as Ukraine, have joined the Third Energy Package, which requires just the foundation, or the energy arbitration, we need to create an independent regulator. And it is this bill, which, according to the rapporteurs correctly said, is the result of joint work, of the work of both the PECovsky Committee and the PECH Committee. So it's a common cause, but it's a case that hasn't been brought to an end. We certainly need to work on this bill for a second reading. And I want to point out that this is a very simple question, the Nomination Commission, as defined. Today, the bill proposes that it will actually be elected by members of the profiling committees. Thus, according to the Ukrainian Committees Act, committees are not given such powers. And accordingly, we will have to work on this specific standard in order to make it work. One example is that we can base the NABA Act, where we have one representative from the President, we have representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, we are representatives from the Supreme Council, and we have a balanced approach. So I urge you to support this prodigal law for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u31	Please support this weighty law in the first reading and we will work it out in such a way that it really allows us to have an independent regulator that will stand in the defense of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u32	Thank you. The People's Front is Semerak Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u33	May I have a word with Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky, People's Front. As with the previous reports on this bill, I also very much ask you to support the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Energy Market in the first reading. Why is this bill important? First of all, I want to say that this is not the first attempt by the Ukrainian Parliament to legalize and give legislative status to the Energy Market Regulation Commission. At present, our priority in the Fuel and Energy Committee is to demonopolize energy markets. We've already passed the Natural Gas Market Act and we're in time for the Electricity Market Act. And the full functioning of these bills and these markets is impossible without an independent regulator. The adoption of this bill is also part of our European integration commitments to the European Commission, the European Union, and to the Energy Community. The adoption of this bill will allow the commission to be made more transparent, more public, more effective politically and financially independent. First of all, in this bill, which is the work of the committee, as well as of the international civil society organizations, we have been working on this bill for over a year, and we have laid the foundations for operational independence, namely, recording the selection criteria of the commissioners, the criteria for setting up an independent competition commission that will select the commissioners; laying the foundation for financial independence when the commission is not dependent on any other body and their budgetary allocations; and having a commissioner who is worthy of a market-based salary and will be able to actually work independently. We also laid down the principles of rotation that had not happened before, because at this point the commission is working solely on the basis of the decree of the President of Ukraine and in fact there are no such principles in the decree. So I'm asking you very much to support this bill, it's extremely important to demonopolize the market, to create more transparent conditions for players in the energy market. This will also enable consumers to understand how electricity, gas, utilities and tariff transparency are being developed. So I very much ask you to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. And the committee also commits itself to redrafting this bill for second reading so that all disagreements can be resolved before we vote in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u35	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! This is the rereading of the draft Law (2966d) on the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities. The project has been assisted by a committee. The role of regulator is key to the success of the energy market. And I support the position that an independent regulator should operate in the areas of energy and utilities. Yet this does not mean that there should be anarchy. The bill contains an unacceptable rule concerning the granting of authorizations to the commission upon the approval of the licensing conditions, i.e. the granting of competence to the commission, which according to the current version of the Ukrainian Law "For the licensing of economic activities belongs exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine". I note that, on the basis of the bill, the commission disagrees with and does not try to justify its decisions, and therefore I think it is wrong to repurchase a single individual development and approval of such an important document as licensing conditions, which is the main document for operators operating in the relevant areas. The Commission should develop licensing conditions, but they should be approved only in the Cabinet of Ministers. The faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" proposes to adopt the bill solely as a basis and to develop it on the committee for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u37	Amelchenko of the Radical Party gives the word to Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to my fellow MPs: the bill that we're considering on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services Market is extremely important. Why? Because today the energy market and its volume amount to more than 300 billion dollars a year (almost the annual government budget of Ukraine), it is governed by an illegal commission. Why is this important to millions of Ukrainians? Because you and I are paying for corruption, because of the electricity tariffs that have been raised since last year, because of tariffs on other energy. Who is leading the Nazi Commission today on the regulation of the utility market? There's a 25-year-old man named Wolf, who's only been named Wolf, who's only one: before he headed this important commission, he worked at the Roschen factory where he got fired for professional incompetence. In private business, he is professionally unfit, and Nazcomsia’s regulation of the utility market suddenly proved to be appropriate. Suitable for what? Deal with corruption! Today, the main beneficiary of this energy market is the Russian oligarch Grigorishin. I ask: Why do Russian oligarchs make money in Ukraine? When our political prisoners sit in Russian prisons, Russian oligarchs earn billions in Ukraine. Why? The answer to this question is obvious: because they are together with the President's Administration in one connection, this is a joint corruption business for which millions of Ukrainian citizens pay for electricity, gas, utilities and everything else. They set up artificial tariffs, they put "out" in their pockets, billions of dollars from the Ukrainian market in order to corruptly charge their pockets and earn money. So what I'm saying is that the President's decision to appoint the Wolf as head of the commission is illegal, and it entails huge corruption risks that all of us Ukrainians are counting on. That's why we're asking the Constitutional Court to find it illegal to order the President to appoint the Wolf, to dissolve this commission on municipal services regulation, to ban Russian business. The business of Russian oligarchs in Ukraine as long as political prisoners are not released: Savchenko, Klich, Shadows, and dozens of other known and unknown Ukrainian patriots sitting in Russian prisons. The offshore scandal that is now unfolding is the price of the past. And this past will catch up with anyone who commits crimes while in any position, including the Presidential. I'm asking you to sign for the President's impeachment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u39	Maxim Chicken from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, there is much talk about high tariffs in Ukraine. There are many conversations, but action is not really enough. And that's why I very much welcome the authors of this very important bill with such an initiative to finally deal with this tariff wachanalia that has taken place in our country. Of course, the Petra Dustenka bloc will support this truly important revolutionary and progressive law. Today we finally have a historic chance and the opportunity at the legislative level for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence to establish the status of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation. This body must be, indeed, independent: independent politically independent, economically independent financially. Dear and distinguished fellow national MPs, this law is also important in view of the fact that very large numbers of Ukrainian citizens from all parts of our country, including my native Dnipropetrovska and Dnipropetrovska, in particular, are appealing to the vast number of complaints about the abuse of natural monopolies, the abuse of utilities by their monopoly. This law is finally going to put really effective state control and make it impossible to abuse it. I propose that the second reading be given to this very important government body with more effective and decisive powers. We cannot create state bodies that will be toothless but that can actually protect consumers' rights. This law is also important in view of the entry into force of the Law of Ukraine as of February 1. the exercise of property rights in multiple apartment buildings. On the way out, and it will soon reach Parliament in the second reading of the Housing Services Act. Of course, this body must be territorially structured so that its representatives, given the authority, are both in Dnipropetrovsk and in Odessa and in Chernów, and in Lviv, throughout the country. Dear colleagues, I'm finally very grateful to the authors for the first time they've offered to standardize utilities. It is not enough to standardize and also to monitor the quality of these utilities. So I call upon all the concerned, all those who struggle with the communal mafia and social slavery, to support this progressive law in the first reading and by a reduced procedure to prepare it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u41	Thank you. All those desirous of political factions came forward with the bill. Now we're going to have speeches from the national MPs. And, dear colleagues, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign up for the presentation. And I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies, please. Novak Natalia, turn it on and pass the word through.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u42	I give the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u44	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I want to say that this law has meaning for every average person who lives in Ukraine, because in our country it's not government, it's the National Commission that regulates the energy market and utilities, that approves the tariffs that are then paid by both natural persons and legal persons. I want to ask everyone today: is the National Commission in its current status effectively performing its functions, or is the tariffs set for gas yesterday and today for electricity transparent and economically sound? I want to give you a few examples. In particular, in the last year, all of the skyscrapers working in Ukraine showed a profitable result, but, by the way, from March 1st to March 1st for all consumers in Ukraine, from 25 to 50 percent, electricity tariffs are rising. Another particular example. Today, a number of isolated areas that do not have gas are using electricity to heat their homes. And what tariffs do you think the National Energy Regulatory Commission sets for consumers who consume more electricity because they have to do it: smaller or larger? Of course it's bigger. This suggests that today's level of experts and people working on the National Energy Regulatory Commission is completely low and unprofessional. And of course, there's a bill on time today that will allow you to demonize a given structure that will allow you to put into this structure on the basis of a competition of real, professional, professional people who will be responsible for the decisions you make. In addition, I would like to point out that, between the first and second readings, we need to make sure that we make changes, not only in terms of increasing Parliament's influence on the appointment of the heads and members of the National Energy Regulatory Commission, but also in terms of strengthening their responsibility for the adopted decisions. Because we understand that the market for electricity and utilities is a market that. It's got billions in it. In addition, I would like to point out that today the area of utilities that provide local water canals or local heat utility should be as close as possible to the executive bodies that work in places, and this is a separate issue that needs to be worked out. So I thank the members of the committee, the people who have joined the bill, and I appeal to all the parliamentarians to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u45	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u46	Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. I am joining all the deputies who have spoken in support of this bill. As coauthor of it, I would also like to urge the deputies to support it in the first reading. And I assure you that between the first and second votes, we will discuss and make all the amendments that apply to this bill on the committee. And once again, support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u47	Valérie Dubyl, Valérie Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, this bill, as it is now, must answer the key question. And what is happening now with tariff policy in electricity, in utilities, in gas, is actually the answer to whether this bill can address the most important issues. What are they? You know, for the second time in two years, the government has changed consumption standards for homes where there are no gas meters. In fact, in these two years, this consumption rate has been reduced by threefold. So our citizens, and this is almost 4.3 million housing units mainly in cities, about 10 million of our citizens, whose homes are not equipped with gas counters, have been given the right to pay on tariffs that are three times smaller than the standard that existed before. The first question that comes up is, where did this crazy cost go before, when you set consumption rates, for example, for those who don't have counters and gas plates, was 9 cubic meters, until the last one was 3? Where these 6 cubic meters disappeared, and who paid for them. The other one. But literally a month ago, two unknowns in paws, but very famous in the gas community of citizens, came to trial against the Ukrainian government. What decision do you think the Supreme Administrative Court has taken? The Supreme Administrative Court overturned the Cabinet of Ministers' ruling, and thus determined that our citizens, who overpaid three times, twice as many as they had no counters, would be forced to return about three billion dollars to gas magnets. That's not all. Instead of actually assessing the situation, since all these calculations were based on the NCRE calculations, the government is increasing consumption standards for such citizens by one and a half times. So in order for this story to never happen again, we have to have a really independent body that will be governed not by gas, not by energy monopolists, or by monopolists of water canals. That's why our faction proposes to vote in favour of this law in the first reading, to make the appropriate amendments, we're ready to make them, and then we're ready to make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u51	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u52	Further on the thesis that Sergey Sobolev said, I want to add one. The first offense that can't go to second reading. There is no such separate body with such powers in the Constitution of Ukraine. Please write it out in accordance with the Constitution in order to make changes. Secondly, for today's day the most important thing we don't have is an understanding of the responsibility of the consumer. In the end, so that we don't create everything with you, we are the people of Ukraine. And to this day, such an organization as NCRE, which according to the Ukrainian court’s ruling today is recognized as illegal to continue to accept tariffs and rob the people of Ukraine. And so our faction will support in the first reading, with very serious warnings, this statement is a mandatory section of Consumer Rights Protection, and it is imperative that the public participate in the transparency part of both national tariffs and locals, that public officials have the right to have the right to license, and part of the obligation to do so. Worst of all, there are a lot of people in this room who don't see how every central executive body wants to get out of the licensing law. It's a disgraceful practice. And if we want to have a European country, they have to comply with the European Licensing Act. If you want extortion and corruption, give it to your wishes. The law in the first reading, the second major work, and compulsory public participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u53	Natalia Katser-Buchkowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, in addition to how important this bill is to protect consumers' rights, as the previous reports have said, and for the market, I want to say that the energy market is actually more. The turnover of over 300 billion dollars per year is almost 30 percent of the Ukrainian economy. So the presence of an independent controller in this market is absolutely essential for its normal functioning. The bill will also provide an opportunity to increase the investment attractiveness of energy objects, since investors, when assessing the market, always pay attention to whether there is an independent regulator, whether its activities are regulated, and whether investor rights, the rights of energy market participants, are protected. It's also very important. So not only does this bill have a direct impact on consumer rights and on tariff transparency, but it also has a direct impact on the restoration of the Ukrainian economy, the demonopolization of the market to create jobs, the cost of our energy assets. So once again, I ask you very much, although there are some observations, to vote on this bill in the first reading. And the committee, together with the public, with the international organizations completely outspokenly, has been looking at this bill for more than six months. And we're also going to continue with the open key to redrafting this bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u55	Thank you. Take Igor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u57	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency. Dear colleagues! I repeat my call to each of you to support in the first reading of this bill. Because it allows the National Commission to make regulation of the energy market: (a) independent and (b) professional. Because today’s composition of the commission is neither independent nor professional. I want to take another look, including the heads of the National Energy Regulatory Commission, which I have already addressed three times with a letter. And I was looking directly at the situation with regard to the supply of electricity to mountain populated areas where the tariff was set up -- those are the points that don't have gas and have to use electricity to burn down their homes during the winter period. Today, the National Commission has set twice the rate for consumers in terms of gas boilers. It's completely unreasonable, and it's completely out of line with market conditions, because according to market rules, the more you eat, the less you pay. So this particular example is a vivid illustration of today's profession and the competence of the National Commission for the regulation of the energy market. So I call on all my colleagues to support this bill, to consider it as a reduced procedure, and to accept it at the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u58	Thank you. And actually, by the book, it's final. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u59	In order to save time, I simply ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the bill. We vote, let's go work on a new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u60	Time's up, so I'm giving the word "self-help" to Lev Podlisecki, two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u61	I'll try to bet in two minutes, because more is said. I'd like to complement my colleagues, remind them once again that the basic criteria and basic principles that they said should be added to the second reading, and add a few more points. It is important for the second reading to further develop the composition of the Nomination Commission, since it was everyone who spoke for it and this is primarily important for the creation of an independent body. The second thing is to work, however, to find the will and make the full rotation of the members of the NCRE, because in fact, in the last year the commission has discredited itself with many decisions. Among these are, in particular, attempts, this is raising tariffs for individual energy companies that actually washed money into specific companies with specific people that those companies managed from certain business structures. And remember, this is also the Ukrenergo for the purchase of famous transformers, and let's also mention the skynergo, where, let's say, for a certain skyner, tariffs went up a couple of times, and for another archer much less. A recorder of the cost of electricity at the price of electricity supply in Ukraine is the Luhansk Energy Union, and there are other companies that have been heavily charged. An important solution that has been halted for the time being is the decision of the NCRE to introduce so-called RAB financing, which stimulates funding, which is not actually called for to stimulate investment, but called for more money from the skynergo, without cancelling the corruption components in their activities. The total, the price of this year's question was 2.5 billion. Such a commission may result in losses to the economy of a billion nations by its unprofessional or perhaps notoriously insecure and corrupt decisions. The total amount is the order of 8 billion you can count in the last year, these are the amounts you wanted to withdraw from the market by decision of the NCRE. To the important points I would like to add, to the second reading, to work on this requirement for candidates for commission members, in particular, I think that it is worth rejecting such a duty not to be a candidate, not to have a representative mandate, because, if he is a member of a level, he can participate in the competition and, as for me, he is also a questionable requirement of having a mandatory Ukrainian citizenship, because I think it is possible for independence and it is worth participating in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u62	The time spent on speaking to the national MPs is exhausted. There is a need for a closing word. I'll give you three minutes to present the report to Dombrovsky Oleg Georgievovich. Wait a minute, there's gonna be a vote in three minutes. I ask the National Deputies to enter the Hall, prepare for the vote, and ask the factions to call the deputies into the Hall. Please, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm going to reveal any special secrets when I say we don't have ideal bills. So I would like to thank you sincerely for the very professional and fruitful discussion that has just taken place. And I promise on behalf of the committee to take into account all the comments that we had between the first and the second readings. The other one. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the committee who have spoken today and who have taken a very active part, which is a Titanic job so that this bill can be tabled for discussion in this room. And the last argument, I really want you to hear it, is why should we vote in the first reading for this bill today? Because our enemies are happy that the country has a political crisis, that it would not be possible to find political consensus in a country like this, but when the political debates of the Supreme Council demonstrate stability when we vote on the sign bills that we made commitments to and at the heart of these bills stand not the interests of the oligarchs, but the interests of a simple Ukrainian family, with understandable tariffs, with transparent tariffs and with the right energy strategy and security in the state, I think it will be a small but victorious Ukrainian Parliament. So I ask you to support and vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're done talking, I'm asking you to come into the hall, take jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. I'm asking the factions to call MPs to the workplace. Is there a willingness in the room to make a responsible decision? Vote. I'm voting on the draft National Commission Act, which makes state regulation in the field of energy and utilities, number 2966, on the basis of the committee's proposal. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, please make up your mind. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:04:01]] For 285 Decision taken. I welcome Alexander Georgievich for his fine work. And I'm sure we'll be able to adopt this bill soon in our second reading. Dear colleagues, I'll give you a minute to organize our work. I'm asking for your attention. I am approached by many national MPs and they talk about how important the bills stand next in the agenda. I don't think the address should be entirely addressed to me. Every time I make a proposal for a reduced procedure. When there are 150 votes, we have a 15-minute review of the bill, when there are no 150 votes, we're going through a full procedure, especially the consideration of the bill took us exactly an hour. And so my request to you is to contact your faction colleagues, to direct the faction, so that at the moment I'm asking the question for a reduced procedure, we have 150 votes. Then there'll be a chance to consider all the bills that we have now in the agenda. In addition, I do not have the Prescribing Rules to speed up the consideration of issues. If we're set up now and we're focused, and we're going to work, and we're not going to have political discussions, we're going to be able to adopt and discuss all the bills. So by noon we were voting for those bills that we decided to put into the agenda and make a decision. These are bills 4004, 4197, 4199. And we must now consider these three bills, according to the Rules. The following are the bills 3251 and 3046. We have 55 minutes of time, if we go systematically, we can look at all of these five bills. But please mobilize the factions and help me organize the hall. Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm announcing a draft law on the restructuring of Ukrainian citizens' liabilities for foreign currency loans received for single housing (4004 and 4004-1). There's a suggestion that these bills should be considered in a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4004, summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:07:27]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u65	Good day again! Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to adopt the draft Law on the Restructuring of Ukrainian Citizens’ Liabilities for Foreign Currency Loans, which are obtained for the purchase of a single dwelling (potateal loans). What we're proposing and we think we've found a solution that will allow us to decide and respond to the four basic principles. First, it will be a fair solution for all citizens, as for those citizens who really need help from the state and have a currency loan problem, and it will allow them not to solve or translate into nations the problem of those citizens who bought large amounts of real estate for currency loans, made business decisions, not buy only housing. The other one. This will allow us to restructure and allow only those loans that are bought for purchase, only those loans that are taken for the purchase of a single dwelling. Third. This will not allow us to avoid paying off our credit obligations to those who are not conscientious payers and who have actually avoided or paid these loans before the crisis. And the fourth. This balanced law, in our view, will not harm the banking system, which has just begun to stand in the way of stability. Who can use this bill, as we suggest? Only those borrowers who have either an apartment purchased up to 60 square feet [60 sq m] or a land plot to build a building are no more than 120 square feet [120 sq m] or a house directly. For the benefit categories. We have included categories of benefits: first - group disabilities, ATOs, war veterans, many - child families, or disabled - child families. According to Natzbank, it is 30,000 families that will be covered by this very action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u66	How long does it take? 30 seconds. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u67	To credit up to two and a half million dollars, only those that are taken for the purchase of the only property, banks can set better tax terms, but these are the conditions that we're proposing, the transfer to the national currency, the setting of a fixed rate of three years. And this is the same rate as the currency loan. And three years from now, it could be a deposit rate in a bracelet plus 3 percent. So that's how we're going to be able to, firstly, transfer credits into bracelets, secondly, write down part of the debt for different categories of debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u68	Another 30 seconds, we have a very limited time. Oksana Sergiyevna, please, 30 seconds, try to enter them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u69	And in this way, remove the tension and solve the problem for those citizens who have been affected by devaluation, which is the only place to live. Thank you. I'd like to support you very much. The project is supported by the National Bank, and agreed with our creditors, it does not conflict with the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u70	Thank you very much. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, is invited to the report. Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, it's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u71	The distinguished people's deputies, the respected people of Ukraine, I was now on the street near the Supreme Council building and talking to people and listening to what people are saying. So people say that this bill, which is now being pushed against the Cabinet of Ministers, is a betrayal. Leaving the government, Yatsenuk decided to finally sell a bill that lobbies the interests of banks who want to cancel the moratorium on the removal of the only housing, and simply to take people and throw them out with children. The Government's bill would allow banks unilaterally to change the terms of the treaty, not for the benefit of the people. I call on you to support our alternative bill, which provides real protection and support the Ukrainians in the restructuring of currency loans. First, because it covers all consumer credits in foreign currency, not just the limited list that the Cabinet of Ministers provides. Secondly, the bill sets out two principles that have long been implemented in Europe, which we keep talking about. The first is the key to the table when the borrower gives the bank an apartment and nothing remains due, because now with all the fines and pennies, it is possible that the borrower has an apartment and then he has to pay those debts for the rest of his life and the children pay it. The second principle is the right of the first hand. Very often banks sell loans to collectors for 5-10 per cent and in fact to bandits who then go, evict people and take away their apartments. A person must have a priority right to buy that currency loan if the bank already wants to sell it. Dear colleagues, people have chosen us to protect us, not to help us drive them out of the street from government and bank. People are not to blame for the inaction of the power that has ruined the economy and has reduced the rate of the bracelet. Business banks got 200 miles.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u72	30 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u73	Commercial banks have only received over 200 billion refinance bracelets in the past year, which have gone to the sand. People didn't get anything. I'm asking you to support our alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u74	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergey Viktorovich. Since he will report immediately after two drafts, I ask that you give me three minutes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u75	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! For more than two years now, the NBA, the government, and the Ukrainian Parliament have not been able to help people who, because of their violent devaluation, have been enslaved to credit. People lose their homes, they've been under Nazibank and the Supreme Council for months. I've been talking to foreign exchange borrowers almost every day, starting with the first day of our committee meeting. You and I have adopted in two readings the Act on Strengthening the Moratorium on Circumstances and in three readings we have supported Law 1558-1, which the banks have called impossible to implement. And in both cases, we got the President's veto, a crazy delay in time, and finally almost zero. During that time, the situation worsened considerably. The only benefit was that banks, NBAs and IMF representatives finally recognized the need to resolve the issue by adopting the law and introducing it. I did not once call on bankers, Nazbank, and the merger of lenders to compromise in order to agree on a quality law that would receive undeniable parliamentary support was signed by the President and, above all, was implemented without legal bias. Because people need real help, and our endless discussions are circle-walking. And after all these actions, we've once again received two bills: a government bill that doesn't accept part of the borrowers, and an alternative that banks, Nutzbank, and the government are categorically against. To be honest, I don't like any of these two documents, and neither of them has won the required number of votes on our committee. But today we are obliged to make a responsible decision. What I'm about to say is very important. What are our main tasks as state husbands and patriots? First of all, how quickly can you help specific people who can no longer pay, who continue to be driven out on the street? We need to give them a chance to save their only place. We need to relieve the insurmountable debt burden. I want to be heard by money lenders. The one who again promises you unfulfilled things is deceiving you and actually taking time to get political points. On the one hand, we have an imperfect Kabmin law that can only help a fraction of the borrowers, on the other hand, a bill that obviously gets the President's veto. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a government bill as a basis for bringing it to second reading, not only to remove all the minor imperfections and to extend the categories of lenders that will fall under it, but to actually remove the insurmountable financial cabal from them. I urge each and every one of you to really think about whether you can live with your own conscience if you allow another year to bring this up. And we have a chance, a real chance to help the borrowers today. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u76	Thank you for your time. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign in for two, two against. Please two for, two for against. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u77	Please give the word to Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We're talking about two bills 4004, 4004-1, but they're very different. I want you to understand the difference, Law 4004 is a compromise. The minister's office brought it in after he got the association together. An independent association of banks, the NBA, representatives of the Credit Midan, and an alternative bill had been put in place by all parties to enable banks to fulfil their obligations. It's very important right now. And even when this bill is adopted, the damage to the banking system will be estimated at about 16 billion dollars. If we support it, it happens, the alternative law, the damage will be 120 billion. It's even more than that bill that was dedicated to 1578, which we voted three times, and it came out. We're playing. We're playing waiting. The expectations of our people. And I want to go to the Opposition Block, it's very dangerous when we manipulate those expectations and give people hope. But we need to focus on that and unite around that bill that is really uplifting and compromising to all sides. For example. 20 percent will be written off for mortgage loans for an apartment of up to 60 meters, for buildings of 120 meters. Fifty percent will be written off for whoever owns the only place. 80 percent for ATO participants and for persons with disabilities. And 100 percent for families that lost their foster parents. during the ATO. In addition, we're going to work out Law 4004 on the committee and we're going to enter a rule, the keys to the table when the mortgage is returned and the loan is repaid. So please pay attention and support Bill 4004.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u79	Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u80	Good afternoon, colleagues. It is very important that this bill or other action of the State should have been done long ago, because when they were admiring currency loans, no one thought of anything. And Nazbank had to do this on his own another year ago. But I thank you so much for working out a very good bill, which is basically correct, but it needs to be worked out, in the first reading, to be adopted. And to work in such a way that it's real, that people can get what they're losing, and the state was protected. So, of course, in supporting this bill, we need to understand that we need to work on it and make it so that it will actually work for the benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u81	Thank you. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! When we make government decisions, we often remind you of parity. A party in decision-making when interested parties a state, business and citizens come to a single decision and only this decision is unprofitable and state-owned. Now we're looking at questions and responsibilities of parity. When there was an increase in the exchange rate from 5 dollars to 8, we said at the time that a citizen couldn't take one responsibility, because in this process they took part: a state that distributed and allowed currency loans, a business that issued foreign exchange loans in the form of banks and citizens. Regrettably, the state did not make that decision by shifting all the pressure on Ukrainian citizens. Excuse me, are you saying that the government did something today? It's a shame, they just threw away the bone and there's slavery for the rest of their lives. But I want to remind all of you: Ask people if they've paid off these loans? They paid a long time ago because the banks only accounted for interest, not counting a penny of the body's credit. Did you hear that? 200 billion refinancing, and the loss was 16 billion when Gontareva was not yet there. And now, of course, when the course after 8 was 27, the damage would be 120 billion -- that's to Mrs. Gonnaar's greeting. And that's why I think 4004 is unacceptable, a bill, and it's slavery to people. And I mean, who gave Minfin the right to decide? All you want is for the people who took one apartment, 100 percent supported. What about business? The people who created the small, medium-sized business, the farmers took the money. Why they do not have the right to the same restructuring and to write it down peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u83	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u84	This body of credit has long been paid off, the bank has no damages, and so this is very conditional damage, 4004-1 is the law that citizens of Ukraine are demanding today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u85	I invite you to say Alexandra Dobrenkova, this will be the final performance. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u86	Dear fellow citizens! It is now really going to vote for extremely important bills, bills that decide or can partially solve the problems faced by thousands of Ukrainian citizens who are trapped in currency. Here the previous reporter called on the Opposition Block to comply and support Bill 4004, as appropriate, but wanted to point out that it wasn't the opposition bloc's fault that three times 300 percent of Ukraine's bracelet was devaluation, when it came up in 2014, it wasn't the opposition bloc's fault that thousands of citizens were left on their own with these problems. And in fact, this devaluation led to the bankruptcy of the individuals in question, their inability to pay off the corresponding foreign exchange loans that were taken under the mortgage. At the same time, I would like to point out that the vote of this bill should be implemented, and the bill should not be dead. If you go to the substance of the bill, Bill 4004 is a separate law that contains a number of conditions for the restructuring of currency loans. At the same time, no amendments to the Civil Code have been made to the Ukrainian Law of Zastava. What does that mean? This means that when Bill 4004 is passed, it will not work because there will be a conflict with the applicable legislation. Instead, Bill 4004-1 amends the Civil Code, and Ukraine's Act "Probation" harmonizes the relevant provisions of the bill with the rules of law in force, which gives us hope for the very creation of a real mechanism for the implementation of the idea of currency credit restructuring. So I urge you to vote in favour of Bill 4004 as well as more balanced and more balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. We finished the discussion. I'm very convincingly asking the deputies to come into the hall. These bills are very resonant, and in our own time, when we didn't make decisions, I'm going to remind you of the Supreme Council's premises have been blocked. It is important for us not to make a responsible decision. And so I'm asking the faction leaders to invite members to the Hall, and I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that there's going to be a vote and I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please. Dear colleagues! Ready to make a decision? Dear colleagues! I'm really asking you to take up jobs. Vladimir, Igor! I'm getting I'm begging you. My colleagues, once again, I ask you to take up your jobs! So I put to the vote the first government draft of the Law on the Restructuring of Obligations of Ukrainian Citizens for Foreign Currency Loans, which was obtained for the purchase of a single dwelling (potate) (number 4004) as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please. [[17:29:01]] For 186 The decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why shout, Mr. Yuri? To see and be calm and confident. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Restructuring of Ukrainian Citizens' Liabilities for Foreign Exchange Loans (4004-1) as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[17:29:49]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we may choose another option: to return the subject to the legislative initiative or to send him to the committee to prepare for the first reading. There is a proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. At that stage, it will be possible to unify both bills. Colleagues, is such a proposal supported? [[B in m in s a l in]] I will set up both the subject and the committee, and now let them determine. Okay, I see, there are more suggestions for a committee to have both laws worked together and unified in the committee. And that's why I'm going to make a proposal under the Rules. Colleagues, pay attention! So that both of the bills that we've just considered should be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? Is it supported? Both bills are for the committee to prepare for the re-reading, to be finalized and merged by the committee. Is it supported? Is there political will in the hall? Vote. So I'm voting on a proposal: a draft law on the restructuring of Ukrainian citizens' obligations for foreign currency loans (4004 and 4004-1) to send to the committee for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:31:52]] For 276 Decision taken. I ask the committee to prepare as quickly as possible for the Supreme Council's decision on these bills. Our next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2016 to grant subsidies to Donetsk and Luhansk regions from the remaining funds of the local budgets of the population areas in which the public authorities do not exercise their powers (4197). The Society, an important bill, is a proposal to consider it in a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:32:49]] For-191 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Efimov Maxima Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u88	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! To your attention, I would like to present a bill (4197) amending the Law on State Budget 2016 on Donbass' grant to rebuild infrastructure and improve living standards. It is very important to note that last October, Law 714 of 06.10.2015 withdrew the local budgets of the occupied territories. This money is now in treasury accounts and cannot be used to support and develop infrastructure. Many of you, colleagues, have been to our east and have seen destroyed bridges, roads, gardens and schools. I ask you to support this bill, thereby enabling you to develop the infrastructure of the unoccupied territory of Donbass. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u89	Thank you. To the co-report, I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Kulichenk Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, at the Budget Committee meeting on 30 March, Bill 4197 was discussed and it was pointed out that it was aimed at ensuring the implementation of the requirements of paragraph 24, paragraph 4, of the Final Provisions, of the Budget Code. Indeed, as early as last year, the committee had decided to return this subsidy to unoccupied territory. But it happened that the issue was not settled by the government at the end of 2015 or at the time of the adoption of the State Budget Act 2016. As a result of the committee's consideration, this decision was adopted: recommending to the Supreme Council Bill 4197 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the committee's proposals made in his letter to the Supreme Council. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to its text when it is signed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the bill is important and will receive clear support in the hall. However, I am forced to propose a discussion: two for, two against. And it's already your authority whether to use it to the full or not. So I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc will undoubtedly support this bill and I call upon all colleagues in this room to support this bill. Why? Because this money, it's going to be aimed at restoring the infrastructure of Donbas, especially those areas of the front that need to be restored today. We have to make it clear to Donbas, we have to make it clear that this is Ukraine, that we care about the residents, about our voters, about our people living there. So once again, I ask you to support this law on a basis and on a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u93	Thank you. Proponents of the bill, please be as brief as possible. Please, Kocheljeva is giving Oleg Laska a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, last week I was with colleagues from the Radical Party faction in Mariupola, was in Zaporozhye, the key issues that we raised at meetings with the mayors of Zaporozhye, Mariupol, is creating jobs for the residents of Donbas, today is Job 1. Ukrainians living in Donbasa should see that the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian authorities, is creating conditions for them to be able to work, earn, feed their families. There are tremendous problems throughout the country, and there are even more problems in Donbas. The first question is the roads. You're on the road, they're broken because they're broken by military technology, broken because there's not enough funding. That's why I promised the Donbas metallurgy, the mayor of Boychenk Mariupol, the mayor of Zaporozhye Burjak that we would register a bill that would provide for additional funding for the construction of the bridge, for the repair of the done roads, based on overturning the customs plan. We keep our word, the Radical Party team, and yesterday this bill was registered. I ask the entire Parliament to support it in order to channel additional customs revenue to repair roads across Ukraine. Next is jobs for the mining and metallurgical complex, which employs 300,000 Ukrainians. I'm asking Parliament to support the bills, in general, to adopt them, to increase the export duty on scrap to 35 euros per tonne, and to set a zero-minute rate on imported scrap. This will allow us to load our metallurgical enterprises, additional revenues to Mariupol's budget, into Zaporozhye's budget. Let's work for people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u95	Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u96	Please pass the word to Sergei Anatoliovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u97	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. We have no one to challenge, I mean, the opposition bloc has absolutely no doubt that Donbass today, as no region of Ukraine, needs infrastructure support. And we know very well what the state of the roads are now, and what the heat is in the cities, including in the same city of Mariupole, what the state of the kindergartens, what the state of the dwellings, what the condition of the boilerhouses. All of this requires a huge inflow of funds, no questions asked. And we're in favour of three hands, supporting and allocating additional funds. But there's one here, and there's a little question that's being stolen, and who's been dividing these amounts, why is there a silence in the office, and why are these amounts of distribution going between cities? Who determined that the city of Mariupol needed 700 million, not a billion 100 or a billion 200? Who has determined that the city, let's say Slavyansk, needs 400 million? We are therefore in favour of a principled approach to this bill. But we have a counter proposal: let's put this bill on the committee, let them finish it in a day or two tomorrow, take a transparent model on Thursday, where it is clear why a city and how much money is being spent. We suggest: there is a Donbass recovery agency, there are, after all, budgets for specific cities. Let's split up, not through agencies, let's divide the size of cities proportionally by the volume of budgets, but we need to understand clearly what these funds are going to be like, and how we control the execution of these funds, and how we control the allocation of these funds. That's why we're in two hands, but we're proposing a common, normal, transparent programme for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u98	Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, Alexy Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetskina. To be honest, it's a shame that we're voting for the second time this bill, which we've already sent to the unoccupied territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk region last year. It's a disgrace to this government that we're wasting our time without adopting other laws that we need. So last week, my colleagues from the Human Rights Committee, my colleague, the head of the committee, Mr. Nemirei, and my colleague Paccan, Chubarov, Wessel, Suslov, Branzovich, were on Donbasa, where we met forced settlers and district leaders. A month ago, with colleagues from the Eurooptimists, we met with the leadership of both the Luhansk region and the Donetsk region, we saw that destroyed infrastructure of the area that hadn't been repaired for a year and a half. We have a town in Seminovac, which is just a very violent and shameful situation where the authorities can't repair a section of this bridge for a year. And this shows the citizens of Donetskina and Lugansk that the authorities do not fight for them, that the authorities forget about these areas. Yes, the authorities are fighting for the territory and our soldiers are defending what we have now. But we must fight not only for territory but for the hearts and minds of people. In the same way, we offer these funds to support also the educational institutions of Donetskina, those that have moved from occupied territory and those that are there, in order to restore shelters, to allocate perhaps the municipal buildings that will involve students from occupied territory and colleagues from the Committee of Education and the Ministry, we are working on appropriate bills to take our people, our children to our prisons and to fight for their hearts and minds. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that a vote will take place. An important and responsible vote, and I ask all deputies to take up their jobs. Colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for grants to Donetsk and Lugansk regions from the remaining funds of the local budgets of the population centres in whose territory the public authorities do not exercise their powers) (number 4197) on the basis of this. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please. [[17:44:23]] For 252 Dear colleagues, there are also requirements for deputies, and there is a need to vote in general. During the discussion, only one suggestion was made because there was a discussion about what would be the control over the use of funds. There was an offer through the Donbas recovery agency. Can we make such an offer? We can, right? Is there the agreement of the hall that I should put this proposal on second reading as a whole? Is there no denying in the hall? There's no denying it in the hall. Do you mind? Victor Pinzenic for one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! No one denies the problems, rejects the problems faced by our fellow countrymen in eastern Ukraine and needs to be solved, but the solution must be in a civilized way. What does this law do? But it's a very simple arithmetic action: 3 billion dollars increases the budget deficit. If we realize that we are deliberately going to break a loan program, I ask for a vote. But if you want to have a civilized solution, according to the budget code, 3 billion dollars, you have to find it at the expense of other sources. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u102	So Victor Pinzenik denies voting in the second reading. Then I'll at least make a proposal for a reduced procedure and a second reading. Dear colleagues, if there is a objection in the room, I have no right to put in general, colleagues. I propose to vote and support the simplified procedure for consideration for second reading. Please, not me, but Victor Pinzenic, a member of your faction, not me, but Victor Pinzenic. I'm going to make a suggestion: consider the second reading by a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:46:47]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next consideration of Bill 4199. This is a draft law on some legislative changes on the features of the use of individual public funds in the area of Donetsk Region, No. 4199. Anyone who supports the consideration of the bill in a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[17:47:27]] For-183 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian national deputy, Efimov Maxima Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u103	Once again, distinguished colleagues are requested to transfer the law on the window to the district and local village councils, as well as to cities and military and civil administrations, in order to be briefly stated under the bill. The act on the window will begin with the adoption of the law for the Donetsk Region as a pilot project and as an experiment. I ask you to support this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u104	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u105	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Bill 4199 has been completed, supported by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship on its adoption as a whole as a law with the necessary technical and legal rights. The essence of the law is that the ProZorro system of state electronic purchases will be implemented on Donbas in a timely manner, not as of August 1, 2017, as provided for in the law now, but in a timely manner, to give effect to the law. It'll save public funds, it'll make public procurement more transparent, it'll make it more efficient to use the budget that's targeting Donbas. Dear colleagues! I think we need to support this initiative so that the area can show the results in pilot mode. Dear colleagues! There is support from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, which supports this bill, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration makes some observations, but does not deny its acceptance. Dear colleagues! Please support the bill on the basis and generally as a law with the necessary technical and legal practices and allow the economy of state resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please record: two for, two for, two against. Please. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u107	Good afternoon again, dear fellows, television crews! Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. Well, first of all, today I've heard such information that at last there's going to be a profile ministry that's going to deal with forced displaced persons, the issue of reintegration on our terms, I hope, the territory of Donbas occupied and the Crimea. I'm also the Fatherland faction, and we've been fighting for this for a year, and we're going to expect the people of Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimean Tatar people to be represented not only in Parliament, but also in certain ministries. This is the first time. Secondly, we really want the Donetsk area to be a front, and that transparent program, which has already shown itself on a very good side, worked to control the distribution of all the finances in the Donetsk region. But I also want to draw the attention of journalists, experts, the public in order to give further control over the use of these funds. We understand what funds will be channelled, perhaps if the law is voted in the second reading of the last bill, and what funds will be allocated to the grant and others. It's very important for these funds to be transparent and they're spent on the very needs they've focused on, to attract attention and control, because it's from civil society, exactly from the activities of journalists, from the activities of our education of displaced higher education institutions and others that we're going to be able to bring back the occupied Donbas today. I propose to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. And I also have a question, why isn't the Lugansk region involved in this program? So maybe we should add Donetsk and Lugansk region to this ProZorro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u108	Thank you. Once again, I'm going to turn to the proponents of this bill to speak as concisely as possible, and we have very limited time. So Vinnik Ivan Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u109	Colleagues, well, there's no doubt that any purchases should be made today on the basis of the public procedure provided for by the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and the application of the ProZorro electronic system. Of course, the three billion that the Supreme Council envisions today for the Donetsk and Lugansk region should be distributed equally among potential performers through the ProZorro system in order to avoid any abuse. At the same time, we say that we must support this, but today we are obliged to vote with you on another bill in the first reading, which also applies to the Public Procurement Act, which came into effect on April 1. We need to vote on Bill 4288, which introduces a separate procedure for specific procedures for purchasing goods, jobs and services to provide for defence needs. The point is, in the actual Public Procurement Act, any tender has to be announced in 60 days. Today, the material security of the army seems to be in such a way that it is necessary to buy an annual solarium of at least a hundred thousand tons. We're already using winter fuel with NZ today, because we can't wait 60 days for the proper purchase procedure. There was a draft bill, which, similarly with the application of the system transparently, predicts implementation with fewer terms in 14 days. We must send him to the Economic Policy Committee today in order to vote on Thursday as a basis and as a whole. All of this today poses a threat to national security. Therefore, I ask you not to disperse, to quickly vote 4,199, and to proceed to the draft law on the specificities of procurement, goods, work and services for defence needs. It's a matter of national security today. Please focus, get back to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u110	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev. Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u111	Self-help supports the implementation of ProZorro. We welcome those who have taken the initiative and want to do so as soon as possible in the Donetsk region. I would just like to add by discussing the idea of a previous bill on the allocation of additional money: we are in favour of supporting these territories, we are in favour of making life as much as possible. But it is very important for Parliament to follow all procedures when adopting the law. We want to see specific expenses, we want to see them deciphered to the last digit. Parliamentarians who will vote in favour of this law will then be confident that there is no abuse field.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u112	Thank you. We finished the discussion. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Important vote, I ask you to take your place. On the other hand, I would like to announce that, using my headship, I continue my work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Are you ready to make a responsible decision? You're ready, aren't you? Then I ask you to prepare. I put to the vote a draft law amending some of the legislative aspects of the use of individual public funds in the Donetsk Region (number 4199) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, on the ground. [[17:57:00]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a committee proposal to vote in general. Isn't there any MPs in this room who would object? None. Then, with your permission, I'm proposing to vote on the draft Law to make some legislative changes on the features of the use of individual public funds in the area of the Donetsk Region with technical and legal rights (number 4199) as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:57:49]] For 278 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Now, colleagues, one minute of attention, we've got 15 minutes and I've annotated 3251 on one side. And, colleagues, there's actually a very difficult situation with military procurement, and I've got a lot of public officials writing to me about how we're going to look at the first reading of 4288, but it's going to be the way it's going to be. Let's focus now, society, and in 20 minutes, we can get through if we're disciplined enough, if we stay put and we don't let our colleagues out of the room, we can make important decisions in 15 minutes. If we work together, not just me. If you will also provide for me, help with the presence of deputies in the hall. So now I'm in the Rules what's next in the Rules, and I'm announcing 3251 -- the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX, Section 5, Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Promoting Market Development of Used Means. There is a proposal from the authors for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3251. Short-term procedure. Please vote. [[5:59:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Gorvat Robert Ivanovich. And I ask you to be as concise as possible during the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u113	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished National MPs, Robert Horvath, Majority District 68, Uzhgorod City, Petra Poroshenko's Block. Today, we are considering a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 5, "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Promoting the Development of the Market in Used Means of Transport, Number 3251, which has been co-sponsored by 94 national deputies. Bill 3251 aims at lowering excise duty rates on used cars to the level of new car rates, which will reduce the cost of blurry and make cars available in the Ukrainian market. In Ukraine it is now one of the highest tax burdens. When we buy a new car, we pay about 40 to 50 percent of the value, and when we buy a used car, 100 to 200, even 250 percent of the cost of a car. While our European neighbors have tax burdens on new cars as well as on used cars, this is about 40 percent. The adoption of Bill 3251 will increase the number of cars in our country to an average European level. Today, there are 201 cars per thousand in Ukraine, with 487 cars per thousand in Europe. Given that about 30 percent of fuel costs are excise taxes and, on average, Ukraine’s budget receives about 15 billion dollars a year from excise fuel, an increase in the number of cars will increase fuel consumption and budget revenues. Let's say that if we didn't have 201 cars, but 300 per thousand people, the budget would get 7.5 billion dollars more each year. We have the average age of a car the largest in Europe, 18 years old. At the same time, there are 8 years in Europe. Since January 1st, 16th, according to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Transport Means, the first registration is possible only if the means of transport comply with the Euro-5 environmental standard. In Europe, manufacturers have started to release such cars since 2008. Therefore, the implementation of Bill 3251 will contribute to the renewal of the car park, since the car could not be driven.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u114	Please, 30 seconds. But the longer you say, the less likely you are to accept it. Because people can break up. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u115	Honorary colleagues, the Chief Tax and Customs Committee, supported Bill 3251 and recommended its adoption to the Supreme Council. The main scientific and expert administration considers the arguments given in favour of Bill 3251 to be sufficiently reasonable. I support his acceptance. Bill 3251 is systematically linked to 3046-d, which we will vote on afterwards. The adoption of these bills will create a civilized competitive market for used means of transport and thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u116	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, let me allow you to take the position of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The bill, as already stated by the author, temporarily proposes to reduce excise duty rates on transport equipment by 31 December 2017, which were used independently of the term of use between 2 and 28 times depending on the type of means of transport and the power of its engine. The reduction in rates applies exclusively to light cars under the code of heading 8703 according to the UTZED. It has been said that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the bill and does not see legal obstacles to its adoption. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance have concluded that this bill is not supported as one that leads to the loss of the budget. During the committee’s discussion, the MPs expressed warnings about both the negative influence and the positive factors that such a temporary action could lead to. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the majority of votes decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u118	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Sergei Kieral.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u119	Ostrika's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! We all know the problem of cars on Western borders. I mean, first of all, a car with a foreign registration: what are the things that our Ukrainian citizens are going to do, which are the struggles for which corruption, for obtaining passports, for co-ownership with foreign citizens, to somehow legalize their used cars. The reason for this is too high excise duties on used cars, which are not proportionally high compared to excise duties on new cars. And that really distorts the structure of the market. To overcome these lines on both sides of the border, people are forced to circle. To fight corruption and defeat, we need to see what is happening in neighbouring countries. In Estonia, in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in Hungary, we have tax burdens on used cars and on new cars, and in Ukraine, if we look at them, tax burdens on new cars are 47 percent, and on car use is 170 percent. It can't be that way, so we suggest, there are co-authors all, almost all deputies, members of the committee, representatives of all factions. Temporarily, 2018 will reduce excise duties on car use and will automatically solve the problem of machines for foreign registrations. We don't take the argument that this will fill Ukraine's market with old junk, because in fact another law allows only machines that meet the Euro-5 standard to be placed on the first registration, in fact, in 2008. So, colleagues, I ask you all to support this bill, and the citizens of Ukraine are waiting for it. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u121	Yuri Saucuk, I stress who supports – speak as much as possible, the more likely you are to accept it. Saucuk Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u122	Dear colleagues! The bill allows citizens of Ukraine to gain, not luxury, but the means of transport that every third family of our country needs today, our Ukrainians, is the first. The second is that in different ways today cars are scattered and virtually every one of these ways does not contribute to the budget. This bill is going to add substantial cash to the car wash because everything is going to go perfectly legally. That is why I propose to all of you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u123	Thank you. Please, Treyak's Alexander. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u124	Please pass the word to Oleg Barne.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u125	Deputies! Previous authorities in Ukraine have destroyed domestic machinery, namely light cars for the people. Instead, for a long time, we were forced from the eastern country, these dangerous "Ladies", "Giguli", "Moscows" and so on. The bill will finally give access to a quality European car for a simple person, for every citizen. What's more, it's primarily about road safety, safety in the lives of our people, and they're going to give us the opportunity to develop a small and medium-sized business that needs transport support. So we ask all the deputies to vote in favour of this bill and to return face to face with our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u126	The last performance is the Saint Dmitry. And I appeal to you again. Oh, you're for him for this bill, aren't you? No, I can stretch it for another 10 minutes and move it around, dear colleagues. If anyone has a warning, speak. Holy Dmitry Volodymyrovich. I'd like you to do as much as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u127	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, surely, the bill is very relevant to people, and it probably has broad support among people. But at the same time, there is a question of when a bit of common sense should be involved. We have the People's Front Bill, which is more comprehensive about the issue of former cars, about new cars and manufacturing in Ukraine. We're now talking about what there are 4 million cars in Ukraine that have already bought cars and are now in use, that is, they've already been in use, and these cars are worth it. As soon as we adopt this bill, we automatically make people twice as poor, because the cost of their cars goes down twice as much as they cost today. Many counted on these cars, many put them in banks, many planned to sell when there were real problems in the household or something. We should have a complex approach, that bill that proposed the People's Front, the alternative, it would have to solve all these issues in a complex way. And we think maybe when we think about it, we'll take an alternative and we'll look at two choices right away. And the second option is that we don't have to lose and fill the market properly, and fill the market with modern cars, new cars, and because of the complex reduction of all the rates and new cars, the modern cars will go more into this market, and give people the ability to buy them at affordable prices. So our proposal is to look at the second bill and to address the issue in a comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. From the non-fractional until the deputies enter the hall, Parasuk, one minute from the rostrum. I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, this law, of course, we need it, but let's not lie to citizens in the highest public authority. What kind of discount are you talking about? It's the only tax that's slightly lowering the price of foreign transport vehicles that have Euro-5. Listen, if we're talking about queues on the border and crossing cars on transit numbers, that's different. So don't confuse, I'm asking you very much. Thank you for your attention. But we all vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u131	Thank you. We all vote. So, colleagues, please go back to work. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Chapter 5, of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Promoting the Development of the Market in Used Vehicles (No. 3251). Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote on the basis. Vote. [[18:12:25]] For 226 Decision taken. Attention, don't split! Keep those coming out of the hall, hold them, and keep them out of the hall. We have the next draft to make decisions. All of it? In general, right? All right, here we go. Is there no objection in general? None. Who supports the offer. There's a denial, sorry, society, there's a denial, I can't put it all together, excuse me, please. But we have the next bill "to make decisions on the issues under discussion." He is related, in fact he is discussed, he does not need to be discussed. 3046 and 3046. So Horvath can remind you of a moment of what this bill is about. Is there a need? 30 seconds, remember, 30 seconds, please. Stay put, you guys!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, 3046-d, it's a trade-in bill. Philosophy — What Is It? If a dealer today, a VAT payer takes a car into a VAT payer as a natural person and then sells it again to a non-payer, he, the state says that if you have not proved uniformity, the car should be one year of release, one model and so on, you have to pay the VAT in full. The government has already received VAT once when a person bought a car, and now he's claiming VAT again. This is bill 3046, the "d" itself, worked out on the committee, which says that the state has only to take the margins. If you bought for 3,000, you sold for 3,500, 500 dealers have to pay VAT. We don't have people riding markets every Saturday, wasting our time, our gas. Put a dealer on the ground either on a commission or on cash, and sell the car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u133	Colleagues, I remind you, he's being discussed. This is the "decision-making from the issues under discussion" on the regulation is the next. Who supports the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to encourage the development of the market for used goods? This bill has already been discussed in the Supreme Council Hall. Who supports Bill 3046d as a basis, please vote. 3046-d, based on. Please vote. [[18:15:15.]] For 207 The decision is not made. Yuzaninius, please, 1 minute. It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, we really discussed this bill last time. But I ask the chairman now to announce that we are voting with technical law because there are two words that we have to replace in order for the bill to actually work, as Robert Ivanovich says. That's why I'm asking, dear colleagues, there's nothing there. It's absolutely what Robert just called it. But this applies not only to the Commission’s contracts but also to other legal agreements. That's why it's not there, it's there. So we have to replace this term. I don't have any material with me because we haven't considered this bill today, I'd read it to you. So, if I may, I just want you to announce with technical law, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u135	Thank you. I might suggest that I go back to the study, if there's the will of the room, if there are voices, I'd like to concentrate. I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 3046-d. Who supports this proposal to return to the draft bill, please vote. Please vote. [[6:16:59]] For 235 We're back. And now I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to encourage the development of the market for used goods (number 3046-d) with technical and legal rights on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[18:17:34]] For 235 Decision taken. The committee invites us to vote in general. Is there a denial in the hall? There's no objection. Who supports the 3046-d proposal with technical legal rights in general, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[18:18:06]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Colleagues, I'd like to stay in the hall for a moment. Honorable colleagues, several speakers and committee heads, raised questions about Bill 4288. When we looked at it, not all deputies were able to clear it up. There was a major discussion on social networks. There is also a public demand for us to consider this bill. We've got him in the morning, we can look at him now, if it's your will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if it's your will, I'll put a motion to the vote to 4288. If there's any will, we'll look at it. If not, we will not consider. Please, one minute, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, the state of the currently de facto blocked procurement procedures at the Ministry of Defense. On April 1, the Public Procurement Act entered into force, which provides for the announcement of a 60 - day procurement procedure. Today we're spending a winter tanner on the front. In September, the winter salon will not be produced yet. In about 90 days, if we follow the Public Procurement Act, we can run an open competition through ProZorro. This is unacceptable, not acceptable in a war - torn country. That is why the Public Procurement Act provides for a separate procurement procedure during a special period. This is the law that makes this procedure. What is the main difference? We're changing 60 days by 14. Period. There's still a few separate amendments that we're going to work on on the committee then let's find 226 votes, send it to the committee, it's important. It's our national security, please find the votes, even though we're working three minutes longer than we need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m1.u137	Whoever supports the proposal to now review the draft Law on the peculiarities of purchasing goods, jobs and services for guaranteeing defence needs (4288), please vote. Please vote on who supports this proposal. [[18:20:46]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is no political will for consideration. We've exhausted our daily routine, and we've adopted very important bills. At that evening meeting, I declare the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. I'm asking everyone to be at work at 10:00 a.m. Thank you all. Good-bye.
