ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. The secretariat of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of the session. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm once again inviting all the deputies into the hall. We now have a number of important drafts on banning the films produced by the aggressor state. And I want to remind my fellow Members that, apart from political processes and political debates, we have to think about the interests of the state during the war. And I call for the discipline of deputies, and I urge the heads of factions to urge their deputies to enter the hall and prepare for registration, please. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please come in, we're getting ready for registration. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up, please have your registration. [[16:07:27]] 362 deputies registered. Thus, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The next one is Bill 3359d. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography (for the aggressor state films), an extremely important bill. It's an extremely important bill, and it's from the committee asking us to consider it in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please support the proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Colleagues, please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:08:34]] For 109 We don't have the required number of votes to consider the reduced procedure, so we're going to consider the bill as a complete procedure. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sümar Victoria Petrovna, please. Please, Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I welcome the Ukrainian Parliament with a demonstration of the high efficiency of our work, because my bill, in this case, which consists of one word, because I propose to make changes in the form of just one word, we will consider the full procedure. I think it's a high and dignified level that will show how effective the Ukrainian Parliament is today. The essence of the bill. I propose amendments to the Ukrainian Film Act. If you remember, you and I took one very important step to protect the Ukrainian information space when we banned essentially the Russian information product produced after the Russian aggression against Ukraine began in 2014 as a sanctioning tool. And also all the other Russian information product that includes the promotion of the authorities and the forces of the aggressor state. When we adopted this decision, colleagues, there was a lot of hysteria about everything that would not be shown on TV, everything would collapse without Russian movies. There was no tragedy. Fortunately, we are able to launch a new Ukrainian information product. Ukrainian shows are being recorded, very many Ukrainian actors have jobs, very many writers are writing Ukrainian scenarios about Ukrainian reality today. Very many directors and operators have jobs today. But there was a problem, the problem is that Ukrainian laws are always found by those who are interested in business and in the penetration of Russian information materials here in Ukraine. The essence of this string. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's impossible, yes. There's probably one person here if he's listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, Mrs. Victoria. I ask you very much to be in the hall of silence, and I ask you to take your jobs. An extremely important bill, and it's not just disrespect for the MP who's reporting on the very subject matter that's important for our consideration. If we want respect from society, let us respect one another. Please, Mrs. Victoria, continue the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u4	So, colleagues, I think that's just a second proof of our effectiveness, because that's a really important question. There's a whole bunch of companies in Moscow today, you know what they do with money and business? They write out the rental certificates that the show, which was actually produced in 2014 or 2015, was produced earlier. And with this seal, these series come here, to Ukraine. This is the lasagna that in very good law, as practice has shown, allows someone here to make a lot of money in Moscow, because there are whole offices there, and I can call a lot of famous people who are now sitting on this money. And we're still being fed low quality Russian soap about the life of the Russian deep, where the marshes are buzzing instead of making Ukrainian movies. We're going to be looking at a very serious bill in advance of all the factions for stimulating Ukrainian film production, and we're going to do the best we can, but today I'm asking you to close this gap. And this is literally one word that I'm proposing as a change to the Film Act, which has been published since 2014. So if we see this show that it's somewhere on YouTube, on the Internet, anywhere it's been shown at this time, it's not going to be able to go anywhere. One word to make it possible to work properly in Ukraine’s law, the political will to which the Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated, the law that has launched Ukrainian filmmaking, the law that has become a real barrier to Russian information product, the law against which hundreds of stories have been written on Russian television. Because they understand one thing very well: To govern the country, it is necessary to control the brains of the citizens of this country. And so the Russians are willing to invest a lot of money so there's a lot of Russian information. And I think that today the Ukrainian Parliament can demonstrate political will and show that we are ready to continue to protect Ukrainian information space. This is a question of both information security and security in Ukraine, both in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u5	Thank you. Please remain on the rostrum, Victoria Petrovna, Victoria Petrovna, on the rostrum. According to the Rules, it's now three minutes to question the reporter. No, no, separately, according to the Rules. Are there any questions you'd like to ask? They're desirable. Please record the question to the reporter, three minutes away. Please. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u6	I am saddened to confirm Mrs. Victoria's words about the super-efficiency of our Parliament when, instead of making a quick decision on a logical, understandable and uncontroversial bill, we go into a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u7	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u8	Thank you. Victoria, you remember when we adopted this law, and then we removed the year of production from you. I propose not to complicate the process, then the Parliament. Then, in furtherance of his work, Mr. Knieżicki, appeared as I recall the 2014 production year. Until then, there was a ban on Russian TV shows without a year of production. I think it's more logical to just delete the year of production -- and put taboos on all the Russian shows. We're going to keep our culture and our safe air with you, and then we're not going to, no one's going to broadcast and treat what the word "publishment" is. Because then it's an extra treatise, and Moscow companies will find a loophole again. I think it's better to just clean up the year of production. And so we voted. This was the amendment of Oleg Láška’s words, and then the Hall voted in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u9	Colleagues, we've got a bill on the committee now that provides for the ban on all Russian information products. We'll look at it as soon as we get the GNEU. Now we're looking at this bill, and I think it might be an important step towards improving the existing legislative framework. One word can be voted on in both the first reading and in general, and it will start to work. Let's take a look at what Oksana Korczynska has to offer, and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u10	Thank you. Marcenko Alexander Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u11	Please give the floor to Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u12	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. A very correct bill, because I was also addressed directly by the appropriate executive authorities who could not make the right decision because it was difficult to verify whether it was produced after the first or the first, right? But the honourable reporter, Mrs. Victoria, and other honourable deputies, who unfortunately are. That's not what they're listening to, actually the problem is that it's in the paper. Which you're proposing, you're still making it possible for our courts to treat differently. When you write, "Produced after 1 January 12014 and/or first published after 1 January." This is according to the committee. And this actually creates a very wide field for a variety of treatments. So I urge you to just leave the fact of the demonstration, of the public. No need to mention when it was produced at all, because it's obvious that if it was shown after January 1st, it's not before. So that's what's causing the problem of production itself. Do you understand? That's why I didn't. Please don't mention it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u13	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u14	Please, if you're going to accept this bill as a whole, don't mention the concept of "production" at all, leave the concept of "demonstration" alone, that is, forbidden everyone who has been published since 1 January 2014. And that way you'll close any one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u15	Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u16	I think the committee will be ready to formulate this proposal. If she gets enough votes, we can support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u17	Thank you. Victoria Petrovna, thank you. The co-report is invited to attend by the head of the Committee of the Prince Mikola Leonidovich. Please. Let's do it as precisely as possible, because the discussion, I can see, there's no draft, and we can lose an hour. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are a few questions. First. There's a bill already registered, which is one of the co-authors for banning all media content in general from the occupying country, not just the movies, it's registered, and we're going to insist that it be taken to the hall as soon as possible. As far as this bill is concerned. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Groysman at its meeting on 16 March 2016 (Protocol No. 30), reviewed the draft Act amending the Act on Cinematography, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sumar. The draft law proposes that the situation of article 15 be clarified. 1 The Act on Cinematography and to extend the ban on the broadcasting of films produced by the physical, legal persons of the aggressor State, which do not include publicity or propaganda for films produced after 1 January 2014 and/or published after 1 January 2014. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports the proposed legislative initiative and, in order to avoid ambiguity of interpretations of terms, recommends that the amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography should be replaced by the words "and/or published (published)" in brackets. This is in line with the standards set out in the Act on Cinematography and is absolutely consistent with the content of the law. The above-mentioned editorial takes into account the comments made in the text of the bill by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Taking into account the results of the discussion, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the proposed bill, number 3359, as proposed by the committee. I ask you not to delay this process and accept this bill as drafted by the committee in order to avoid the speculations raised by colleague Victoria Sumar, who unfortunately exist in our television area. Thank you. I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u19	Thank you. Mr. Mikola, please stay in the rostrum. I urge you to return to the rostrum. Mr. Mikola, I ask you to return to the rostrum, to your place of work. And I'm asking the MPs, is there a need for a reporter? There's no need. Mr. Mikola, thank you so much for the report. Dear colleagues, you have heard the decision of a committee that is agreed upon. We now have a way, or we can go from factions of national MPs to 40 minutes, or we can go to a vote. Colleagues, do you support me to put me to the vote? Is there any objection in this room that I should put to the vote? Then please. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take a seat. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. I ask Victoria for a closing word for one minute because Yuri Lewchenko, Yuri Lewchenko, asks if his proposal is taken into account. Mrs. Victoria, is there a need for closure?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u20	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, we are. It's counted, isn't it? Vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, then you will have to explain to your constituents where you were when voting on such an important law. Can we vote, colleagues? Everybody's in position. Yuri Bereza, Yuri Bereza, boys! Shepherd and Bereza, please come to the workplace. This is a question of the information security of our nation. It is no less important than military and military security. And we were chosen to do our duty here, no less important than on the front. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Cinematography" (for the aggressor state films), number 3359 as a basis and as a whole as an editorial of the committee read by the Princely. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please, on the basis and in general. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:25:01]] For 218. Dear colleagues, you have to be at work during your workday. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. There's a requirement that they didn't make it back. I'll just put it back once. If there are no votes, we will go to the next bill. Please, one minute of Victoria Sumar. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Final word from the author of the bill. One minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u22	Colleagues, it's very good that I didn't hear any, and the Ukrainians didn't hear any voices against, that no one said why, in fact, we should not obey the previous law. Because it's about a technical regulation that allows you to just work on that law. And now perhaps the key problem is the discipline in the hall. I really want to ask my colleague today to show that, you know, in this country, not only doctors, nurses, but also MPs, are supposed to work in the same way in the hall. Yuri Alexiovich Pavlenko, I think you share as a member of the committee the philosophy of the bill. I'm asking you very much this step, we have eight votes left. Let us not destroy this legislative initiative that will actually stimulate Ukrainian film production. And yet it's going to be creating Ukrainian own information space. Let's finally say no to the Russian primitive media soap that we're fed with to do the same primitive society. This is an important question today. And I think that's one word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u23	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the vote back. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Don't go out there, just go in the back room. Ready to vote? I see there's someone else in that country who's wondering whether to leave the hall or go to the hall. Sergey Lechchenko has been identified. I'm voting for a return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography (for Aggressor State Films), 3359. I ask you to vote for your return to the hearing. I'm asking you to turn on the voting system. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:27:52]] For 234 Now, dear colleagues, I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Film Act (3359) as a basis and as a whole. Please take up jobs, dear colleagues. Let's get back to the aggressor state. Please vote on the basis and as a whole of the committee's committee, which has been called by the chairman of the committee. Vote. [[16:28:33]] For 237 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafter of the bill. Welcome to the committee on quality work. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State support for cinematography in Ukraine. But before we go to the next bill, I have to follow the rules. We have received a statement from two factions to announce the break. But they're willing to replace it with a performance. This is a requirement of Self-Help and the Radical Party. And they're authorizing a position instead of a break, three minutes of all the performance by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska Láska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u24	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to a very important fact. Today we have voted with you a very important law of our colleague Yuri Shuhevich, which allows for the right of Ukrainian pensioners to receive the pension they have earned, not the one they have paid, twice as much as they have earned, because of the shortcomings of Ukrainian legislation. You and I have corrected this injustice, although unfortunately the law of retroactive force does not have, and how many thousands of people have suffered because, unfortunately, we have not reached the point of accepting early changes that will protect Ukrainian pensioners. I offer you, my dear colleagues, not to make such tragic mistakes in the future and to adopt laws in time to protect Ukrainian citizens. Here's one of these laws that the Radical Party is proposing is to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding free annual medical examination and dissipation of elderly citizens in Ukraine. Some of you may find this uninteresting, but millions of Ukrainian retirees go to the hospital only when the disease is at its very late stage. And if they were to be tested on time for how many more years they could live, and especially not spend thousands, thousands of dollars to be treated. And that's why the Radical Party calls on all of its colleagues to join our initiative and to adopt an immediate law in this Parliament that will allow for annual, stressing how the world is doing, to conduct free examinations of the elderly in order to harm the development of diseases, to detect them at an early stage, and to save the lives of our Ukrainian citizens. Another important initiative being taken by the Radical Party faction. As in neighbouring Poland, we propose to enact legislation so that people of retirement age will receive the most needed medicine for a month free of charge. For example, from pressure, from the heart, from the head, from the cold, from 5 to 7 positions per month, but for free. Because today they are prescribed and cannot pay for these recipes because people do not have the money, especially the pensioners with this policy that today’s authorities have led to. So I'm asking Parliament to support the Radical Party initiative and protect Ukrainian pensioners and their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (3240). It's also a very important bill. There's a recommendation that we look at it for a reduced procedure, and I ask colleagues to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the 3240 summary procedure. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[16:33:25]] For-174 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Condratjuk Olen Kostinenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u26	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The currentity of the bill, I think, is no doubt about anyone, because as early as January 28, this year, Parliament adopted a bill on State support for cinema, and now it is preparing for second reading in a profile committee. It envisions and implements direct state support for cinematography successfully tested in other countries, a system to stimulate the development of film and distribution networks, and the return of some of the qualified costs incurred in producing films that have passed a cultural test, and so on. As a result of the adoption of legislative changes, an effective system of protectionism in the field of cinematography will eventually be created, which will increase the volume of films produced in Ukraine, increase the share of Ukrainian films in the Ukrainian cash assemblies, increase the tax revenues to the budget, both at the expense of the film industry and at the expense of all adjacent industries, namely tourism, services, advertising and so on. However, these necessary violations for our country will not take place unless Parliament supports amendments and additions to a number of other legislative acts, such as amendments to the Budget Code. This is the 3240 bill that we are currently considering, which is the basis of this support. Since we see that without a direct government order, Ukrainian cinema does not have and will not. State support for cinematography should be made at the expense of the Foundation of Cinematography, the source of which is the cost of the general Fund of the State Budget of at least 0.2 per cent of the expenditure of the general fund of the State budget of the previous year, other funds of the general and special state budget funds received under the Country Budget Code, including from the implementation of property rights to use films, the source materials of films and films created at the expense of the state budget. I would like to thank the members of the Budget Committee who supported Project 3240 and expressed their individual positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u27	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u28	Who have made a number of valid comments and suggestions to him, and I believe that the committee will be able to fine-tune the project in the second reading. So I ask you very much to support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u29	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u30	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, of the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on February 17th, considered the bill number 3240 completed. The bill provides for the settlement of budgetary issues regarding the formation of the State Foundation for Cinematography Support. First of all, it is suggested that the target sources of this fund be identified, that the expenditure of the fund be allocated to the expenditure of the state budget, which will be protected, that it be granted the right to place the funds of the fund in public bank accounts. The creation of the Fund is directly provided in Bill 3081d on State support for cinematography in Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on January 28, this year. So the bill number 3240 worked out is derived from the bill number 3081d. And then to take account of the changes made to Bill 3081d on second reading and adoption as a whole, the adoption of Bill 3240 would have to take place after the adoption of Bill 3081d. It should be noted that the implementation of legislative initiatives to create the fund will result in the loss of revenue from the State Budget General Fund and will require the allocation of additional public budget expenditure, according to Minfina, over 3 billion dollars. It should be noted that the provisions of Bill 3240 (worked) need to be harmonized with the requirements of the Budget and Tax Codes and stressed by the Ministry of Finance and the Supreme Council. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 3240 (worked) to be adopted on the basis of the committee’s mandate to work on it, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the legislators and to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council after the adoption of the 3081d Act as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u31	Thank you. Your Honor, are you willing to discuss this bill? There's, yes, I'm asking you to turn on the recording system: two for, two against. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. Princess Mikola Leonidovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I also want to thank the budget committee and the authors of this bill. The People's Front will hold this bill. I call on all factions to support it because, as you know, we have just voted, for example, on a bill banning the content of the aggressor country, but we have to hold something that prohibits the Ukrainian content manufacturer. Such an agenda is being implemented by the Ukrainian Parliament. We considered in the first reading the law that is now working on our second reading of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. So I would like to support now, on the basis of this bill on the budget committee, these are the two bills that complement each other, and then in general in the next sessions vote on the two bills and support the Ukrainian cinematographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u33	Thank you. There's going to be a final speech, so I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, and there's going to be a vote. And I give the word of Sugonjak to Alexander Leonidovich. Please turn on Sergei Kaplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u34	Please pass the word to Sergio Mikolaiovich Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u35	Distinguished fellow citizens! I would like to support this legislative initiative. She heard it, it's time. And that's what I'm going to say. We know exactly where to find the money to support the Ukrainian cinema. I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should gain political will and review individual articles of the state budget. And the money that individual political forces have given the factions as bribes to other individual factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine up to 500 million, to half a billion, to individual enterprises, to take now and to distribute among the subjects of our cinematographic business. The other one. I've just heard the legislative proposals of one of the great and famous heroes of the 95th Quarter cartoon "Kievska Rus", which concerns improving the situation for our pensioners. And I understand that the Self-Help faction supports and signs under them. And here these factions need to understand one very important thing. This means a whole new country's deligarization course when there are no millionaire mayors and owners of entire national television channels. This means communization, which means nationalizing the course and the course to take away from our oligarchs what they stole from the Ukrainian people. So I'm proposing a bill to amend the Constitution and the Self-Help faction, and another faction to recognize our nation's new national course as a whole for communism and the construction of a communist society. I think your voters will support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. It's really a bill in a packet with a previous one. By banning the aggressor state's films, we must support the Ukrainian filmmaker at the same time. Otherwise it won't work and it won't work, it's up to us. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall. Please inform me that there will be a vote now, and please prepare for the vote. So they went into the hall. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (3240). The committee's offering us a basis for acceptance. I think we'll be the only ones in that decision, and I ask you to vote 3240 on the first reading as a basis. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[16:43:22]] For 228 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors and also to the committee with the decision taken. The next issue in the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the sustainable development of physical culture and sport (2068). And there's also a suggestion that we look at it as a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:44:13]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u37	Honorary colleagues, members of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism were presented with a revised version of Bill 2068, removing from the text of the last draft of the bill the rules on the exemption from land reserves and education, culture, physical culture and sport, and so on, which are fully supported at the expense of public or local budgets, since those standards were included in Bill 1850-1, which was already adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and prepared for consideration in the second reading. Thus, a revised bill of 2068 proposes that tax legislation be reinstated in part of the granting of land tax benefits to children's sanatoriums and health facilities in Ukraine, as well as enterprises, institutions and organizations for physical and sporting purposes, for areas in which sports facilities are used for the preparation of military personnel and law enforcement personnel, for the conduct of all the Ukrainian international and training processes of the Ukrainian team of sports teams and for the preparation of the sports reserve, as well as for the construction of designated institutions, organizations, businesses and institutions, for the construction of bases for Olympic and Paralympic preparations for real estate taxes. The list of enterprises and institutions, physical and sporting organizations that benefit from the aid, is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the above, I propose to support the bill in a detailed text on the basis. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u38	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u39	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The author of the bill presented his draft law in substance. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy discussed the draft law at its meeting on July 1, 2015. I want to let you know that essentially, for example, on payment, release, payment of real estate taxes, we were adopted in the previous law, 654th, 17th of July 2015. And it was the benefits that were granted to preschool and public education institutions funded by the State and the local budgets. With regard to other organizations, such as legal and natural persons, such additional benefits were not granted on account of the fact that if such an organization is not profitable, it does not pay income taxes on grounds of nonprofit. As far as land payments are concerned, we also gave benefits to preschool and general educational institutions, regardless of the form of ownership, to others by Law 654. Health, culture, science, education institutions that are fully funded by the State or local budgets. Considering that in article 103 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, granting additional aid to the State may make it necessary. The lower the income of the local budgets, the less we need to accompany such benefits with additional subsidies from the State Budget, the more we have talked on the committee to invite the authors to adopt the bill only in the first reading, then to clarify all such circumstances and to rule out any disagreements that may arise under the bill. So the committee's decision was to propose to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u40	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u41	Invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u42	Thank you. We had literally last week parliamentary hearings where we discussed this subject, so I think we should take a step and propose to the committee in the first reading, I think it's right to give a good sign. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? There's no need. Then I ask my colleagues to come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please enter the hall. Please. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the sustainable development of physical culture and sport (number 2068). I ask you to prepare for the vote and please vote for base 2068. Please vote. [[16:50:25]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have the rules. Congratulations to the author of the bill for his work. And I'm in the next chapter, we have two questions that just need to be included in the agenda. So one of them is the draft Act amending article 171-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (to clarify individual provisions). And the second bill, 4034, is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on dealing with issues of natural gas supply. It's a project by Belkovy. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put one and the next for inclusion in the agenda, and then we're going to have an important block in the security and defense of our state. Can I put it to a vote? It's just getting into the agenda. Thus, the day-to-day draft of the Act amending article 171-1 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, project of John Krulk (4052). Who's in charge of including him in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[16:51:56]] For 197 There was no support for the proposal among the deputies. And I'm putting the next bill 4034, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on dealing with issues of natural gas supply, the national deputy of Bilkova. So whoever supports the inclusion in the agenda, only the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, please vote. 4034, in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[16:52:38]] For 196 The decision is not made. So let's move on to the national security and defence cluster. We have the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service (to be passed by students of higher medical, pharmaceutical, military training institutions under the programme of preparation of medical officers in mandatory order), 2210a. And there's an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:53:33]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, please. Modigal Olga Vadimovna, please report to the rostrum. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, this is the law that we are now putting to the vote, in which the Health Committee is not a professional committee, but which we were actually initiating this law on the restoration of military education in all medical institutions. If you remember, all the doctors had previously received and passed through the military pulpit, and they could carry out their military duties if needed. A few years ago, the military responsibilities of doctors and military education were abolished, resulting in a great need for military doctors today. This led to civilian doctors leaving their jobs at the beginning of the war and, in fact, district hospitals in occupied areas and territories in the area of antiterrorist operations being left without medical personnel. These areas were actually saved only by military hospitals that we were able to put on top and that were actually able to travel to the premises of these hospitals. Civil and military medicine is now working in a coordinated manner. The only thing missing is the lack of knowledge among civilian doctors about military medicine. Military medicine and civil medicine are very different. Military bullet trauma is quite different. And it's very important to return military-polish training, military-polish surgery, to higher medical institutions. And allow all our doctors to regain the knowledge that they can apply both in civilian hospitals and in peacetime if there are terrorist acts or military threats in Ukraine. So I ask you to support this law in the first reading, it is very important to raise the level of security in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u44	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Pashin Sergey gives the authority to speak from the committee of MP Winniku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u45	Following the commission of November 11, 2015, the committee considered the bill. We really agree that it is necessary to make military-medical education compulsory in higher education institutions. At the same time, there is a observation by the Ministry of Defense that there is a need for a clear division of military medical training and training of medical officers. These are two separate programs. It is therefore necessary to hold appropriate meetings between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Science and Education. To that end, these programs, which are based on institutions, will be implemented by universities. In addition, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority points out that it is necessary to provide for adequate funding for such activities in the budget. That's why it affects the budget. The committee strongly supports the necessity. At the same time, taking note of the comments, I propose voting on the basis of the first reading. Before the second reading, determine clearly how the account will be financed. So that we don't have the exact situation that we've had, for example, with the vocational education, when the Supreme Council has supported almost 2.7 billion dollars of financing for trade and technology at the expense of the general government budget fund. And only we saw that 500 million were allocated there literally two weeks ago. We don't have the right to adopt imperfect bills, so let's vote, work, get all the sources, answer all the questions that came up with this bill today on the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And let's develop, raise the security, the security, the security situation in our country. Thank you. On the ground, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u46	Thank you. So the committee proposes to take the basis for further development. Dear colleagues! We still have many important bills. Is there a need to enter into a discussion, or can we vote? We can vote. Thank you for understanding. Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. An important block, an important bill. I ask you to enter the hall, prepare for the vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (to be held by students of senior medical, pharmaceutical, military training institutions under the programme of preparation of medical officers in mandatory order). The committee's proposal, based on 2210a, is based. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please. [[16:59:52]] For 232 Decision taken. I welcome the author of the bill, the committee and I wish a fruitful work on the second reading of this bill. The next draft of the Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials (2289a). And there's also an offer from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. Please. [[17:00:41]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia, Ivan Stepanovich. Please report to Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u47	Honorable Chairman and Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to bring legislation in the military sphere into line with the changes that have taken place in the political and military environment of the world by amending two laws of Ukraine: the Ukrainian Defence Act and the State of Law Act. The Law on the legal regime of state of emergency is proposed. First, the conditions for the introduction of a state of emergency are specified: cases of violations of the functioning of important state-owned objects, which are confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as acts not provided for by law of paramilitary or armed formations, aimed at the capture of particularly important objects or sites that threaten the safety of citizens and the violation of the activities of public authorities and local self-government authorities. Second, there are additional measures to be taken in certain areas when it is introduced. Thirdly, the list of forces and means of military formations and law enforcement agencies involved in the implementation of these measures is expanding. The Defence Act specifies the list of actions of other states or groups of states that testify to armed aggression against Ukraine. The basic functions of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine are clarified, and the concept of military conflict is also introduced. This is in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, the definition of "war state" and "military command". I would also like to point out that during the preparation of the draft law for the first reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies, a number of observations have been made that are correct and will be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u48	Thank you. From the committee, please, Vinnik will represent the position of the committee. Please come to the rostrum and please state the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u49	Our committee at its meeting on 4 November 2015 reviewed the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's national security laws, which regulates and takes into account the necessary changes to a number of legislative acts. This is about defending Ukraine, about the state of emergency, about the legal regime of the state of war, taking into account those threats, the challenges facing our state. Of course, the proposals proposed by the Ministry of Defense regarding the organization of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, the General Staff. other executive branch bodies are supported and considered by a committee. Also, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that this bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading for the purpose of further processing and the already detailed reading of it, and the development of the second reading, for adoption as a whole. The committee certainly supports it and requests that the Ministry of Defence be immediately supported and voted on by the Ukrainian government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u50	Mr. Winnick, I'm sorry, I have to interrupt you. You're reporting the next bill, 2470a. And now we're looking at 2289a. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u51	I finished the report. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u52	Thank you, colleagues. So, 2470a, we listened to the reporter and the co-rapporteur. And I'm asking you to sign two in favour, two in front of the bill. Please record. Babak Alona Valerievna, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Shepherd Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u54	A shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u55	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. We've studied this bill carefully enough on factions and we've come to one conclusion that there are, in fact, a lot of rules that are working and that are being clarified in this bill, and we need, in fact, the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. But unfortunately, this bill has set some rules that we are now trying to work against as parliamentarians, and it's not what we're trying to do, it's not what we're trying to improve our defence planning and even our defence sector. Today, Parliament has been completely removed from the adoption of conceptual documents such as military or military doctrine. And in fact, in this bill, we have a history where, after the President's decree approved, we have made a number of changes, and today Parliament must actually push our legislation under these decisions. And in general, when he accepted this doctrinal document, he was in no way in agreement with Parliament. Therefore, we feel that this practice is wrong today. And first of all, by developing the military doctrine, the Cabinet of Ministers had to work with valid legislation, not to invent new norms, and today to force Parliament to push legislation into military doctrine and into the norms that have emerged there. That's why the Self-Help Unit is proposing that this bill be finalized so that it doesn't go missing. And, indeed, these standards, which are necessary today for the Ministry of Defence, have acquired the rules of law. But in that way, today, unfortunately, we will not be able to support him. We are ready to work it out and then accept it again on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u56	Thank you. Please, Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u57	The People's Front faction has consistently supported the bills necessary to strengthen our defence, to clarify the language that exists in the legislation. We call on all the deputies, the whole Parliament, to vote in favour of the bill, because it is necessary to streamline the work on Ukraine's national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u58	Thank you. Oksana Siroid, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the fact is that security, security in the state really depends largely on the extent to which the security and defence spheres, such as the Armed Forces, are under the control of Parliament and the civil organization of the state. Parliament has once been more civilized. Parliament had a mandate. Parliament had authority, particularly with regard to the approval of military doctrine, and other powers. Unfortunately, these powers were usurped by the President. Not that long ago. And actually, it's already provided that these powers are usurped with regard to a civilian organization. Civil control over the organization of the state, the military organization, and the destruction of the Ukrainian army. Now we have a lot of decisions, we have a lot of decisions that we have to make about security and defense, to make life easier for our Armed Forces, to make them more effective. But we don't see decisions that really will ensure reform and make the Armed Forces subordinate to Parliament and the civil organization of the state. The bill currently under consideration contains standards that may be extremely dangerous to the State for its safety. These are norms that apply, for example, to the reasons and conditions for the introduction of the extraordinary, these are rules that actually force the Ukrainian legislator to act in accordance with the President's decrees, not the other way around. That is why we would urge the Ministry of Defence to bring decisions and draft decisions to Parliament that will indeed allow for the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, rather than spreading the threat to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to prepare for the vote, I ask you to enter the Chamber of Deputies and prepare for the vote. I'll make suggestions on the next line. First, the committee's proposal on the basis, and then, if it doesn't get most of the votes, turn it back to the committee for work. Please be in the workplace and identify yourself. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine on national security (number 2470a) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote on the basis. [[17:11:43]] For-187 The decision is not taken. I'd like to make the following suggestion: return to the committee for further work. And I'm asking you around this proposal to unite, yes. And I'm asking you to support this proposal together. So I'm voting on the proposal to return the draft National Security Act (2470a) to the committee for further elaboration. Please vote, vote. [[17:12:30.]] For 219 I'm told they haven't been able to vote. Let's put this proposal back on the vote, colleagues. So I'm voting again, and I'm asking my esteemed colleagues to come into the hall and take part in the vote. So please come into the room, prepare for the vote: return to the committee for further elaboration the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on national security (2470a) to be drafted into a committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote 2470a. [[17:13:28]] For 226 Decision taken. We missed the 2289th Bill because there was no reporter, but the reporter is already in the room with us. That is why I am now announcing a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of State Authorities of Ukraine and Officials (2289a). We have already voted in favour of having him reconsidered. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Foreign Minister, Pristyk Vadim Volodymirovich. Please report. We have already voted in favour of a reduced procedure under this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is asking you to support the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of the Governmental Authorities of Ukraine and Officials. This law was designed to bring our legislation into line with the requirements and international treaties we had previously signed. The current law stipulates that state protection is carried out in respect of heads of foreign states, parliaments, governments, their families, heads of international organizations in Ukraine and Ukraine. they come and stay in its territory. At the same time, according to the practice of visiting foreign high-level delegations, the United Nations Convention on Special Missions of 1969, to which Ukraine has joined, is often headed by foreign ministers. That is why we ask to extend the security of these officials to foreign ministers as well. Experience has shown that virtually all European countries, the United States and Canada have appropriate legislation and provide protection. It should also be noted that the number and intensity of military and official visits to Ukraine has increased considerably in recent times. In particular, ministers of foreign affairs from 92 countries visited Ukraine in 2014. In the mid-2015s alone, 45 nations made visits. The intensity is increasing, we need to ensure that these high-level delegations are safe now. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u62	Thank you. Vinnik is invited to participate in a report from the National Security and Defence Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u63	Fellow Members, on 4 November 2015, the Committee considered a proposal - a bill submitted by the Government of Ukraine to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Governmental Authorities and Officials - in part of what is proposed to allow State protection to government representatives, parliaments, heads of international organizations and other officials who come to the territory of Ukraine in their missions. Well, of course, the need to provide such protection stems, first of all, from those conventions that Ukraine has joined. This is, for one thing, the UN Convention on Special Missions since 1969. Of course, the current security situation also has an impact on the problem, and it should, in fact, take into account the increased number of foreign country visits, representatives of foreign nations in Ukraine, to provide them with adequate protection. At the same time, the Supreme Council Committee on Budget Affairs also supports this bill because, according to the Committee, it will not affect the State Budget indicators and will assign these measures exclusively to those costs that are provided by the State Protection Service for the protection of public persons. The Committee on National Security and Defence considered on its committee, and the members of the committee came to the unanimous conclusion that the bill could be adopted in the first reading on the basis of the following proposal: to make the wording proposed by the Government somewhat different, namely: "To ensure that members of the families of certain officials are protected by the State, irrespective of the reasons and purpose for which they are located in Ukraine, should be provided only in cases where they arrive in Ukraine in the form of official delegations, or to visit Ukraine at the invitation of the authorities of Ukraine", Of course, this will clearly determine the number of persons to whom State protection is to be extended, which is financed by Ukraine’s taxpayers, and which clearly regulates the proposals requested. asked the government of Ukraine. Please support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Please hold the recording. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u65	Yes, we support this bill, just like all the bills that are supposed to help solve it without a problem. But, Mr. Chairman, I would like to address you, and I think that's the same question for the millions of Ukrainians who are looking at us right now. You could inform the Ukrainian people and the people's deputies who are still in the House of Parliament, where the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now the head of factions, who are supposed to be here to look at these security laws with us, which are missing 2-5 votes, and comment, at last, when the Ukrainian Parliament, which today has been unable to create a coalition and select a new Prime Minister, will begin to work, and when the Ukrainian government that has not been working for a month, will begin to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u66	Thank you. On the question of where the heads of factions are found, rather than me, we should ask ourselves this question about self-discipline and self-organization. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. By the way, the head of the Burbak Maksim faction is on the watch for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you, colleagues. So I'm putting the committee to a vote. Draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On State Protection of Governmental Authorities of Ukraine and Officials" as drafted by the Committee. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. 2289a as a basis for the committee. Ready to vote? So whoever supports this proposal, please vote 2289a as a basis. Please vote. [[17:21:18]] For 212 Dear colleagues, we haven't made it yet, have we? I urge you, strongly and persistently, to be at work, it's very important, we're being watched by Ukraine, we're being watched by our voters. Dear colleagues, I'm going to go back to considering this bill, but I ask the MPs to be considerate, conscientious and disciplined. So, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ready? I propose to go back to the draft Law 2289a. Whoever supports the proposal to go back to this bill, I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[17:22:35]] For 231 We're back to the debate. And I now propose to the committee once again to support the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of State Authorities and Officials (number 2289a) with proposals by the committee on the basis. Dear colleagues, we're voting for 2289a, please. [[17:23:20]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. When we voted for inclusion in the agenda of the 4034 session, two factions came up, said they weren't oriented, because it was a quick question, and they were ready to support it. Would you mind if I re-entered the agenda of 4034, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on dealing with problems in the supply of natural gas? Just getting into the day-to-day routine. Will there be any objections among fellow MPs? Excuse me? Yes. There is no support in the room. Let's move on to the next draft of the agenda. Second reading, our next draft of Law 3483. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Intelligence Act (for the Departments of Internal and Own Security of the Ukrainian State Border Service). It's a second reading, an important bill. And I invite you to the report on this issue from the National Security and Defence Committee of Vinick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, this is the second reading of a bill proposed by the government of Ukraine that will allow the internal and own security of the State Border Service to be made subject to counterinvestigative activity. Of course, today, across the entire border of Ukraine with the Russian Federation, as well as on the line of demarcation with occupied territories, the role played now by the overseas service units is important. But we can use these units even more effectively when they can become the subject of counterintelligence. This bill was supported by the Ukrainian Security Service, of course, and this is the second reading, I would like to point out that no proposal has been made from the national MPs to the bill in preparation for the committee's second reading. So let us vote on this paper in the form that was voted on in the first reading as a basis. The only thing I would like to point out is that, if a bill is adopted as a result of a second reading, and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with national security and defence in preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out some technical and legal rights in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. I would ask the chairman to say this when the bill will be put to the vote in the second reading and in general. Therefore, I would like to support in the second reading and in general bill registration number 3483. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u68	Thank you. Please tell me there's more at the rostrum if you'd like. The law didn't have it? So we can put him to a second reading vote. Colleagues, what's important is the bill. I ask you to be disciplined, considerate. I'd like a colleague of the National Deputies to come into the hall and take some jobs. An important vote will take place. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, please, colleagues. So I'm voting on a second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Counter-Intelligence (for internal and self-security units of the Ukrainian State Border Service) No. 3483 with the commission of the Committee to introduce technical and legal remedies. And I'm asking the people's deputies to identify themselves on this proposal. In the second reading and in general, please vote on who supports this bill. Vote. [[17:28:03]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. And now we're moving on to the next question of the agenda. This is a chapter for making decisions on the issues under discussion. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to stay put. On Friday we discussed the full - time drafts. They were able to express themselves. And there are bills that don't cause any discussion, but that really need a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the first one is 2280a and 2280a-1. They are discussed. They do not need to be discussed. But I will ask the chairman of the committee, Lilia Greenevich, to remind members of the bill from the rostrum for a moment. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, one minute for Lily Greenewicz to remind the MPs about the course of discussion and the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, this bill amends the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. This is about improving the requirements for members of this agency because we want this agency to be really a conscience of higher education. Before this bill is also an alternative introduced by Sergey Soboljev. We agreed with the author of the alternative bill, and I read under the transcript when we were considering the full procedure of these laws, some amendments. So we ask that we vote on the basis and in general with the amendments announced under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u70	Thank you. Colleagues thus reminded Lilia Greenevich of the bill. And I ask the deputies to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ready, colleagues? So I'm voting on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (for the National Higher Education Agency) (number 2280a) as a basis and as a whole with the amendments that the head of the Lilia Greenevich Committee read under the transcript. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 2280a as a base and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:31:32]] For 225 Dear colleagues, during the vote I ask to be in the workplace. Dear colleagues, I'm in advance informing you that there will be a vote. I don't know what's more important about voting than voting, so I'm asking everyone to focus and take jobs. And I'll do it again. No, I'm betting on a return to Bill 2280a. Be disciplined and considerate. I ask you to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. 2280a is a return to consideration of the bill. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[17:32:57]] For 225 The card didn't work. The MPs have been told that the card didn't work. Colleagues, in fact, this is our inconsiderateness. It's not cards that didn't work, it's us not in the workplace during the vote. Okay, I'll do it again, and that'll be the last time. Since this law is extremely important, I will once again propose to the deputies to return to consideration of 2280a. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and prepare for the vote, colleague. So whoever supports the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (2280a) please vote. Please vote. [[17:34:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Now, please be careful, now I am voting again on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on National Agency and ensuring the quality of higher education number 2280a as a basis and in general with the proposals made by the head of the committee under the stenogram from the Supreme Council rostrum. Please vote 2280a on the basis and in general, please. [[17:35:04]] For 223 Dear colleagues, under the Rules, I must make the next motion for a vote. No, the discussion is over. There are MPs who are definitely against consideration in the second reading without discussion. And that's why I'm making the next proposal for this bill. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, to be adopted as a basis. Is such a proposal supported? So I'm putting the next proposal, according to the Rules, to a vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act No. 2280a as a basis. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, 2280 a as a basis, please. [[17:36:28]] For 228 Decision taken. The proposal was a united hall. There is a requirement for voting in general. We need to use a special ad hoc procedure. If there's a denial in the room, there can't be a whole. Thank you. We're moving on to the next bill. The following bill, at the request of the reporter, is submitted to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Shepherd Taras Timothyovich on Thursday. At the request of a committee representative. Next: 2724, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of the Ukrainian State Road Fund. A bill that has been discussed. But I would like to ask the head of the Dubnevic Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, one minute to remind you of the content of the bill and the outcome of the discussion. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich, say your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u71	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On another occasion, Bill 2724 is introduced in the first reading on the creation of a road fund. This bill contains one of the most important norms: a clear distribution of funds that will be collected and filled into the road fund. 35 percent of these funds will automatically be sent to the district level to distribute local self - government on local roads. 60 percent of this fund is headed to state-owned roads and 5 percent to finance security measures. The fund will be filled with oil spills from the excises that will flow into the road fund. This will allow you to accumulate the cost on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u72	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u73	On the most painful problem in our country, these are our roads with you. I ask all the MPs to support this bill in the first reading. Especially the People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, the national MPs from the People's Front, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u74	Thank you. I'll remind you, this bill has been discussed, like the next one, and all it needs is a solution. And I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, 20 minutes before we're done. So, colleagues, 20 minutes. We have bills that have already been discussed, which have already been discussed, and all we need to do is make decisions. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. So I'm voting on the draft law on the introduction of some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of the Ukrainian State Road Fund (number 2724). Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote 2724 on the basis. Please vote. [[17:41:02]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Shall we return to the committee for work, Mr. Jaroslav? Dear colleagues, let's go back to the committee for further work, that's our next offer. I'll bet you, please concentrate, come into the hall. I propose to refer the draft Law 2724 to the committee for further development. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote 2724 on the committee for further work. Please. [[17:41:49]] For 206 The proposal did not get the required number of votes either. And the final proposal is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. The next suggestion is to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the drafting of Bill 2724. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:42:32]] For 223 The decision is not made. The bill was rejected. Let's go to the next bill. Dear colleagues, I am required from the hall, distinguished colleagues, to request from the hall. We put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the two drafts of the day, and the MPs didn't know what the bills were. Oleg Lazko denied it, but he no longer refuses to put them to the vote again. I'm asking you to concentrate in the hall, mobilize your factions. I'll put them back in, it's just getting into the daytime. So the first is 4052, the draft amending article 171-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality (to clarify individual provisions). The author is National Deputy Krulko. He's asking. But this is an inclusion, not a discussion, Mr. John. Please, 30 seconds for the Ivan Krulko replica, 30 seconds for the replication, although this is not provided by any Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been signed by representatives of all the factions that enter. They were part of the European Ukraine Coalition and other factions. What's this bill about? To date, the Supreme Court of Justice’s decision regarding the dismissal of judges can be sued on a single basis: in the Supreme Administrative Court. And it happens very often, you know our judicial system, when the poor at the hands of the judge arrange for different reasons with the Supreme Court -- and they are reinstated. These decisions need to be amended so that they can be reviewed before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. A very important bill aimed at illustrating judges. Please support inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u76	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. The discussion is not foreseen. Who supports the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act in article 171.1 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (number 4052), please vote. Please proceed to the order of the day 4052. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:45:20.]] For 224 I'll put it to the vote again, put it to the vote again. If there are no votes, I will no longer put to the vote. I ask you to mobilize your own faction for this vote. I'll bet again. It doesn't need a return. Once again, I'm putting the bill in order of the day 4052. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:46:00]] For 230 230 for. Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to address issues related to natural gas supply. The Belkovo project. 4034. Whoever supports the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. 4034, enrollment in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:46:40]] For 211 The decision is not taken. One minute. Belkova, please turn on one minute. As Krulkov was given, so was Belkovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill regulates the standard that allows today's budget organizations to buy gas. I'm informing you and I'm paying attention to all majors. Today, almost a blocked dig of natural gas by all budgetary organizations. I've got a bunch of letters from schools, kindergartens. Actually, since January 1, there's no one to sell them gas. Please note and vote, support for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-29-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, we do not need a return. I'm going to put again, like the previous bill, the vote, and I'm going to ask for a vote. Therefore, who supports the inclusion of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on dealing with issues with natural gas supply (number 4034) please vote. Please vote. [[17:48:10]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The next day we have a draft of Law 2725. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Jaroslav, can we consider the following law if the previous law has been rejected? It doesn't make any sense. These were two laws related to 22. 2724 and 2725. If the previous one was rejected. We need to decide their fate, and that's why we need to look at 2725. But I ask you to support the proposal to consider a reduced procedure. Please, 2725 on short notice. Please support the 2725 reduced procedure, please. Please vote in favour, please include the voting system. [[17:49:34]] For 171 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, look at the story. The head of the subcommittee rightly says that these bills were binding, the previous bill we did not approve, but we also have to decide the fate of this bill, it cannot remain in the legislative base of the Supreme Council of Ukraine uncontested, we can simply not support it, and we will therefore decide its fate. So I'm going to put him to the vote, and the MPs are going to make the decision, and we're going to decide his fate accordingly. So I'm voting because it's already been discussed, I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the creation of the Ukrainian State Road Fund, number 2725. The motion, please vote 2725, please vote. [[17:50:44]] For 178. The decision is not made. Bill 2725 was rejected. The next bill, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (as regards the irreversibility of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes), is a draft by the national deputy Heratchenka, he has also been discussed. And, dear fellows, can I put him to the vote? I can. Thus, 3196: The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (as regards the irreversibility of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes) by Anton Heraszczenk is put to the vote on the basis of the committee’s proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:52:09]] For-160. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. So, colleagues, we've completed our consideration of those bills that were discussed earlier. But we can still fully consider the next bill in the order of the day, 2299a. No, right? Says the chairman of the committee that we may simply not be able to get enough votes and not have enough votes, but a very important bill. And it's probably the logic of the committee head. And obviously there's no need to move on to it. Then, with your permission, I'll use the time I have to read the messages. So, colleagues, I want to read the announcements that came to the fore. Announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the MP's faction of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenka" at its meeting on 17 February 2016 decided to include Barna Oleg Stepanović as part of the faction of the People's Dept. It's a message. And, honourable colleagues, in this way, we have completed our consideration of the issues that were in order of the day, which we have been able to consider. Today was an important day, and we made a number of very important decisions, including the resignation of the Attorney General. It is very important that the real process of rebuilding the coalition in our Parliament has begun today. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. I ask everyone disciplined tomorrow at 10 a.m. to come to the Plenary Hall. Thank you. Good-bye.
