ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for your registration. I ask the Secretariat to inform the deputies that an evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is beginning. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, can we make a registration? Now look at how many people are in the hall. You don't even know how many people are in the hall, Mr. Volodya, let's see. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. [[16:07:20]] There are 356 people in the hall. It's a victory. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, the draft law on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the territory’s legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster (4437), is the following day. Dear colleagues, we have four IMF laws after that, and this bill is extremely important, and the minister present here is in the hall. And I would ask all my colleagues, Self-help. "self-help," I would ask all my colleagues to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, I would ask all my colleagues from all the factions to consider it and to be able to consider all the other bills that are of extraordinary importance. We've shown a productive and good job before lunch, so let's just focus on the same thing after lunch, and we can do more of the laws that are needed for our nation today. So, dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion for a brief motion for a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to address specific issues of the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Please vote and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:09:17]] For 111 My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We have 356 people participating in the evening session today. My colleagues, have they taken up jobs? Can we vote? So, your honor, I'm going to re-vote draft Law 4437 on a reduced procedure. It's an environmental bill, and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. Nadia, we're waiting. Yes. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:11:05]] For-137 137-yes. There is no political will of MPs. I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich. I ask you to conduct the discussion as concisely as possible and briefly as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering this important bill of conduct and policy-making in the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl station crash. I would like to say that during those 30 years, physics took over, and the alienation zone became much safer. So the radiation dropped 10,000 times compared to the days of the accident. An analysis of the state of affairs in the alienation zone says that considerable efforts must be made to reform it. This is about safety, about conservation of the environment, about handling radioactive wastes, about turning the "Hidden" object into an environmentally sound system of investment behavior. and the introduction of investment activities. After the Chernobyl station’s stop, high - voltage power lines are not used for the purpose, and the state uses and spends on their proper maintenance, and large areas are not used to enter the alienation zone. As we know, it's the most ecological. The most ecological in the world. The source of electricity is solar energy, which has prospects for use and application in this area. But the lack of land regulations in the alienation zone does not allow such solar power stations to be built today. With a view to deciding on the legislative level of the above-mentioned tasks, your opinion proposes a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the resolution of specific issues of the territory's legal regime that have been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. Thus, the bill proposes to amend a number of legislative acts in Ukraine, including those aimed at regulating the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of the administration of state property in the zone of alienation and the granting of permits for the special use of water objects. So in a zone like this, it's the central authority of the executive branch that regulates public policy in the area of water management. In addition, I would like to point out that the bill under consideration provides for the order of scientific research in areas affected by pollution and certain activities, such as urban and architectural documentation within the area. I would like to say that valid legislation provides for the use of scientific research that we received while working in the alienation zone requires special permission from the Cabinet of Ministers. In 25 years of independent Ukraine, no one has ever applied, and the Cabinet of Ministers has given such permission, while in the world science market the experience of Ukrainian scientists needs not only our neighbors but also far off. For example, Japan wants access to our research, to our experts. So our northern neighbors, who also have experience, but much smaller, have a joint activity, I mean Belarus. Ukrainian experts do not have this experience – the opportunity to share. And I'd also like to say that we're about to face the question: what do we do with the 4th cloud down, how do we dismantle it, how do we get the energy or fuel-intensive masses out of there? And we can take advantage of the world's experience, we can share our experience, and this bill, when it's adopted and supported by the people's deputies, gives us that opportunity. It is also proposed to establish that activities within the territory and sites of the natural reserve fund in the alienation zone are carried out with the permission of the central executive authority, which carries out State policy in the area of the management of the alienation zone and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction. With regard to air protection, the draft law provides that emissions of pollutants by stationary sources can be effected on the basis of a permit issued, including by an object that is located in an alien zone. However, the bill also addresses the issue of the creation of a biosphere reserve and natural-invention fund in a zone of alienation and unconditional eviction. I would like to remind the National Deputies that on April 26, the President of Ukraine signed a decree on the creation of such a reserve, and its beginning is delayed only because the law has not been passed. A commander or such a legal norm will enable us to increase the function or performance of a function that is a barrier to possible contamination from the alien zone. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt draft Ukrainian law, number 4437, on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. But we do have three minutes of questions for you. And I'm asking the National Deputies to record a question to the reporter. Please. Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u4	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please tell me this bill provides for the creation of a new structure, which is also subject to additional control functions. You realize that this is not a reduction of government officials, it's an extension. And if you think it's necessary to create one like this, give an explanation of what functions it's going to be given, and what it's going to be like to expect us to do business again. the appearance of a new control body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u5	Please, Mr. Ostap, you have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u6	Mrs. Alexandro, thank you for asking. I understand that you're asking about the central executive authority that implements state policy in the area of alienation management. This organ is created, this organ is called the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone. This is the central body of executive authority that coordinates and directs its activities to the Cabinet of Ministers through the Minister of Nature, today it's me. Hence, the new body is not created. The other one. I'd like to say that there's no agricultural production in the alien zone, and it won't be predicted. Unforeseeable other types of entrepreneurial activity, there is no need to be afraid of entrepreneurship that someone will be more anxious to treat them. In the meantime, I would like to say that the adoption of this law makes it possible for Ukrainian business subjects to engage in certain activities, both scientific and, for example, renewable energy. And as the minister of nature, I see a great potential for using the territory that's in the alienation zone to start working in Ukraine of renewable sources, and I mentioned it as solar energy. I would also like to say that the German scientists we met at the Ministry after receiving information that Ukraine might open up such activities in the alien zone have informed me, I'd like to share with you that Ukraine has a huge potential for solar energy. It turns out that the best place in Germany for solar energy is worse than the worst place for solar energy in Ukraine. Meanwhile, the German economy today receives 40 gigawatts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u7	Thank you very much. We have very little time for questions. In fact, only one question can ask Babak Alona Valeriyovn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u8	Mr. Minister, of course we support this bill. At the same time, there's a question for you. The bill provides for the construction of an alienation zone on land for the absence of a document demonstrating ownership or use of the property. Because you're talking about economic projects, development projects. They're likely to take place under state-private partnership conditions. So how will the state ever register ownership of at least to the ground? How can it be that an object that generates economic benefits will not use a land that has been properly formed, for example, by a state, the right to own a state? Please explain very clearly how this may be that the earth is not properly formed according to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u9	Thank you for your support for the bill. It's very important that the Self-Help faction will support the bill. As far as land use is concerned. land or land relations, I would like to say that the land of alienation cannot enter the free market of the land. Construction of state-owned enterprises there today is impossible, and for example, hygiene facilities that have been built by the State Agency for the reception of foreign delegations have had to be built outside the alien zone this year. And this is caused by the fact that there are certain restrictions on use and building permits. Regarding the prospects of these land plots, I would like to say that this entire land is owned by a state and is not envisaged to alienate this land into any other property.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u10	Thank you very much. Ostap Mikhailovich, time for questions is up. I thank you for your report. You'll be able to say another closing word. And I invite the head of the Subcommittee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich to report. All those who sign up will have the opportunity to speak. Alona, we'll still have the opportunity to speak, there'll be a lot of chapters for the performances, and that's why Alona will be able to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, Honourable Head, on May 17, 2016, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, considered Bill No. 4437 on the amendment of certain legislative acts by Ukraine to address specific issues of the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, which I have just called, has been introduced by the President of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to address the problems of the legal regime in the area of alienation and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, namely the management of land of state ownership, the features of urban regulation, the granting of permits for special use of water, the use of water objects, the granting of permits for the discharge of pollutants into the atmosphere, the characteristics of the environmental regime of the territories and the objects of the Natural Command Fund established in those areas. The adoption of the law will help to resolve problematic issues, to carry out scientific and environmental activities in the area of alienation and unconditional eviction, and to organize the implementation of the authority of the executive authorities in this area, including with a view to establishing the Chernobyl Radiation, Environmental, Biosphere Reserve, and the creation of electrical facilities from alternative sources of infrastructure development, scientific research, and so forth. The Agrarian Policy Committee suggests accepting it as a basis and taking into account its suggestions and observations. Ukraine’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Environmental Policy. The naturalization and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster made a unanimous decision on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the settlement of individual issues of the territory's legal regime, which was subjected to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster under registration number 4437. Dear colleagues, the bill is really very much needed and not just for everyone. representatives of all factions and groups represented in the Ukrainian Parliament, members of our committee were very perfectly and carefully considered at our committee meeting before a positive decision was taken to support Bill 4437. Members of our committee have also been dealt with seriously enough with people’s deputies who are not members of the Committee on Environmental Policy. We also participated in meetings of various factions and discussed, discussed carefully, and discussed the rules of the bill. As our bill has made a positive decision, we also ask for the support of this bill, which will improve the situation in the Chernobyl area, will provide the opportunity and all legal instruments to create an appropriate radiological biosphere reserve within the Chernobyl area, which has already been created by the President's decree on 26 April of this year, on the 30th anniversary of the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a coconspirator? No questions asked. Is that right? No questions asked by the co-rapporteur. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Thank you very much, Ivan Petrovich, for the report. And now I'm asking you to sign up from the factions for the performance, this is our next chapter, and I'm asking you to record. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u13	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the problem of the Chernobyl area needs special attention. Unfortunately, I'm forced to say, with my colleagues, particularly those colleagues who work in the districts who refer to the Chernobyl area, that we have made the necessary decisions before the 30th anniversary of the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear station. It is quite clear that we would need to first generalize the whole set of problems that have to do with Chernobyl and perhaps to go to the only code that would be called the Chernobyl Code, which would be based on the problem of people, the problem of treatment, the problem of rehabilitation of people, and the problem of employment in that area. I can give you an example of the Emelchin region, 80 percent of which is one of the largest areas in Ukraine, 80 percent of which are in the Chernobyl area, among the two companies, it's clear that this is forestry, and the second is a chicken factory, which is now using special demand for energy problems, there is no more work for people. People have pies of land, they ask questions, I've discussed with them that maybe these pies of land would have to be polished for the support of the state. We have solved the problem of increasing green plantings, reducing environmental problems, but the owners of this land, of course, are people who are necessarily left behind and who would pass on their offspring the corresponding real wealth. Sadly, this idea was not supported. The next point that I'd like to pay attention to, maybe in preparing the bill for second reading, is using the Chernobyl area for scientific research, we can have international centers there. There is great interest, including Japan, in studying us, our experience. In conclusion, I must tell you that the parliamentary delegation was the first Supreme Council of Ukraine to visit the appropriate nuclear station in Japan, which had suffered a disaster. And I have to say that, with enormous intellectual and scientific potential, they're far behind us in realizing the consequences of this tragedy. And here we could provide a common scientific work. I hope that by the second reading of these proposals, which I will also make, we will support them, which will allow us to have a more serious and complex law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. Artushenko Igor Volodymyrovich, from the Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u15	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u16	Thank you. First, I thank the minister for the quality of the law, and I thank the committee for its fruitful work. Indeed, the law is fundamental in order to extend the life span of this territory. Today, of course, the area of unconditional alienation is an area of corruption. It's a corruption zone for both the forest and the fish, and the berries, and the metallurgy, and the building materials. Today it is total corruption, and it can only be tackled by the fundamental changes proposed by this law, including. This bill is a chance for science. A chance for science in cooperation with international organizations and donors, and the development of our scientific thinking on radioactive waste management, the development of the energy sector in general, and the continued development of the nuclear sector in Ukraine. Today, unfortunately, the idea of reducing the statehood itself was not supported, for in fact only the reserve and Chernobyl nuclear power station and everything must remain in the area of the unconditional alienation zone. This should have a dot. There is no government anywhere in the world, although the tragedies that have occurred in the world have been far greater than Chernobyl. At this point in time, the adoption of this law requires that our business be provided with a medium, that it should be prepared for bidding for solar power stations. And I think the Minister's words are a confirmation. Thank you. And this law needs to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u17	Thank you very much. Welcome to Babak Alon Valeriyov's word from Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u19	The Self-Help faction supports the bill. Unfortunately, the only thing we did not hear from the Minister was the word “tourism”. In this territory, God himself has certainly decreed a significant improvement in the situation. Authorisations are all fairly corrupt, little changes in infrastructure allowing. will allow for a sufficient amount of funding. Many foreign tourists will be interested to see this. And the second point I wanted to point out. There's a town like this, everyone, well, we know it, and we need to pay attention to it too. There will now be a serious decline by the end of the year in the people involved at the Chernobyl nuclear station. They are professional people who have a sufficiently serious experience in both the nuclear industry and as liquidators, and as researchers. I wouldn't want to lose that kind of frame in this situation. Please bear in mind that there are other territories that are not directly linked to the Chernobyl area, but are dependent on it, that are occupied by all workers and that are very quality workers that need to be used. And, among other things, for all the same Japanese and other researchers, it is likely to be the most effective place for research centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are still here. From Fatherland, Alona Shkrum. Please turn on the microphone. There's already been a performance from Peter Prashenko's Block. I'll give you, there'll be another chapter from the deputies and you'll sign in. From Fatherland, please, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u21	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for your word. I would also like to thank Mr. Semerak for personally reporting this law is very important, I think, right for our Parliament. What can we say about the changes that are being proposed? Of course, we need to use the experience of foreign nations. Of course, we need to use the territory and the potential areas that exist, not just to preserve it forever and forget it. Of course we have to even talk about some business projects possible, some tourist projects. But I have a question more before what authority does the central executive authority have, and this is the state agency for the management of this alienation zone? And should we give these powers to the state agency itself? Well, first of all, we're talking about reforming the central organs of executive power and perhaps even questioning the creation of such a separate body and the existence of such a separate body of executive power. Especially because it's suggested in the bill that it should still be given significant very important powers in dealing with single-person issues about the initiation of such business projects, the granting of permits for special use of land. In fact, the executive authority will grant such permits and such decisions without any checks, studies, without a state-wide programme on the use of such lands in the alien zone, without any special checks that are on the part of Ukraine that are not subject to this zone. For me, as for the person involved in reforming the public service, such powers of the central executive authority without control are highly questionable. So I think before the second reading, it's still a matter of learning, looking at the authority and competence of this central executive body and ensuring that its powers are not excessive and are not extraordinary, and yet that it should report to the public and to society. And the money for these business projects was also given to us in a transparent way, in the government register and in the government budget. "Paternity" will support the first reading and will be very seriously involved in making amendments to the second reading. Please, come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u22	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to record the speeches by the national MPs. Whoever raised your hand, please sign in. Now, the section on "Reputation from the People's Deputies." Please hold the recording. Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, I'd like to take part in answering the question of colleague Alona Shkrum. The point is, indeed, this central authority of executive power -- the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone -- is actually given serious powers, but the Cabinet of Ministers will still be in charge of making final decisions. So this is a very serious question, and this question was examined by the Committee on Prevention of Corruption in Mr. Sobolev. And there is a positive, acceptable attitude of committee members to this bill. So I think it's these kind of observations that we can work it out on the committee square for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u24	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u25	Borislav Rosenblatt, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, Yes, indeed, the law and approval of it in the first reading will allow for the creation of an agency for the management of the Chernobyl AES zone. But in the same way, I'd like to suggest making a transparent system, and I'm addressing the minister of ecology so that we really have the opportunity to see what's going on there, because today this closed zone is, in fact, hidden from all attention, from all kinds of control organs and what's going on there today: uncontrolled deforestation, uncontrolled amber mining and everything else -- it's a disgrace today. That's why I'm addressing today, first of all, by actually creating an agency, we're handing over not only authority, but also responsibility for what's going on there. And most importantly, today we want to see and be able to control this government body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u27	Thank you. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, we certainly need to adopt this law and change the rules of the game in the alienation zone, because the alienation zone has been for a quarter of a century, or more, after 30 years should become a recovery zone, a recovery zone, not an alienation zone. We have to change the concept, but. You mentioned the forests as uncontrollable. Why doesn't anyone tell us where the fell forest is? Tens of thousands of cubic metres of forest are sold to a special-combination unit, and last year the journalists were investigating it, and it might be going home to our homes or to our incinerators or furniture. It is possible, in principle, that the forest mixes with healthy wood from no estrangement zone and goes to export, so these wagons are tens, hundreds of wagons on the Bukoviny, which go to Romania, and it is possible that there is a forest. And is radiation control going properly? Because the goal, especially this law, is to provide radiation security for humans and the ecosystem. There are some warnings about this law that it is too liberal. In particular, we're going to issue permission for special use, but where guarantees that barrels of water from the Chernobyl area won't go watering the agrarian fields or anywhere else, God forbid, will be sold as drinking water. Whoever guarantees this radiation safety is not prescribed in the law. There are also warnings about what will happen to scientific developments, because once again, the state may lose ownership of the scientific developments that will, the inventions that will be implemented, be invented in this area. So there's a lot of questions about this law, but I'm sure we have an environmental policy committee with experts, with the participation of active deputies, we'll work on it before we read it again. But I'd also like to ask, in particular, the Ministry of Profiles -- figure out what's going on with that forest tens of thousands of kilometers now, don't wait for the law to be passed, but take care of the order in the alienation zone and the appropriate organs and special units there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, Spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u30	John Sporish, 15th Wynnickin County. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Dombrowski from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u31	The next one is Dombrowski, so there are two speeches. Please insert a rule into two statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that, at last, 30 years later, Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament had drawn attention to a very serious problem called "The Chernobyl Tragedy." And from my point of view, the main point of view of this bill is two key points. First. It's to draw attention to the Chernobyl tragedy, to the fact that we haven't had enough legal tools in 30 years to solve the problems that have arisen both in the country and, above all, in the area of the Chernobyl disaster, the problems that are both for the community and for the people and for the earth and for all the others that are concerned. On the other hand, the key point is that we need to learn to take nuclear energy very seriously to its problems. Unfortunately, I'd like to take this opportunity today, and I would like to emphasize, unfortunately, that we should draw the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian society again to the situation that we have with NAC Energoat. Because accounts remain blocked, the waste fuel stops to be removed from the territory of our country, and supply and payment problems begin. So once again, I want to draw attention to the problem of developing nuclear energy in Ukraine. As far as this bill is concerned, it is very important. And I would like to thank the President for taking such a profound approach to resolving the legal status of this area, because when we communicate with European or Japanese scientists, who are pointing out that we have a unique opportunity to create scientific centres, scientific laboratories that would enable us to learn how to treat, how to help, how to use the resources that we have, including those that are problematic, they are focusing on the alienation zone of the Chernobyl nuclear station. That's why I'm convinced that we need to adopt this bill. I propose and support that position so that I can accept it in the first reading. And I believe that the issue of the Chernobyl disaster, the question of how it relates to the strategic development of the energy and energy security of the country, are the issues that should always unite all political parties, all political factions and all Ukrainian national MPs in this room. I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u33	Thank you so much for sticking to the rules. And we still have time for the show. Illenko Andriy Yuriovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u34	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, this law is certainly extremely important because the Chernobyl disaster, its consequences, is what we feel all the time in our lives. And we understand that today we have to change our strategy, understand the perspective of all of these things, including in the alienation zone. But, you know, there's a Chernobyl disaster that's become a disaster for our nature, for our environment, and there's an informational Chernobyl disaster that's happening today in Ukrainian air, where there's no Ukrainian language, and there's no Ukrainian song, where everything is completely destroyed by the Moscow chanceon and pops, which is followed by "Russian peace" with machine guns. And today the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been able to find strength in itself, I can't keep it quiet, I understand that I may be in violation of the Rules now, because I'm not speaking on the subject, but I can't keep my mouth shut about this. What the Supreme Council of Ukraine has essentially become today is the majority of the deputies who have not voted in favour of the Law on quotas for the Ukrainian song on air, and today they have actually become members of Putin and the "Russian world". And today Parliament has disgraced itself. Because I can't imagine what the Supreme Council of Ukraine can then be called if it can't even essentially protect our nation's information space. Today, the Moscow war against Ukraine is going on, but it is not only on the front, it is going into the information space, first of all, which, despite having 2.5 years of Russian aggression, has been completely controlled by the Moscow imperialist mob, which imposes its totally low-performance pseudoculture patterns on our citizens and then carries out direct military aggression after the information aggression. And instead of fighting this, instead of showing and allowing the development of Ukrainian culture, Parliament has not done so today. I call upon the leadership of the Supreme Council, I call upon all the leaders of the political forces who call themselves pro-Ukrainian to do everything in order to correct today's disgrace. To adopt these laws at last and make sure that we move forward so that we have Ukraine, not Malorasia. Because that's where it all starts. Where there's a Russian chance, there's a war going on. It was on Donbas, so it was in Crimea. And now we have to understand that, so we're not statesmen, and it means a sin to pay the price then to this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, I can assure you, the next quarter of this law will be put back in order of the day. You can hear me, I'm asking at the committee level to do a professional job so that he's ready to accept fully, I'm asking you to do a professional job, on the second Thursday or even Tuesday this law will be in order of the day. You know my position on that matter and we'll do everything we can to get him accepted in this room. Thank you. Dear colleagues, last performance. And I'm asking the MPs to mobilize, this will be the last performance. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, one minute, Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u36	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I wanted to draw attention once again to the problem of nuclear energy, particularly the Energoatom company, in the continuation of what Mr. Dombrovski said. We have four nuclear stations in Ukraine. And they produce properly, they use nuclear fuel, which is later to be buried. Today, nuclear fuel is exported to Russia. Ukraine spends about 200 million dollars a year. There is a joint project between Ukraine and America to build a centralized nuclear fuel depot in the Chernobyl area. Holtec International, an American company, is committed to and assumed the responsibility of developing the very technology of nuclear fuel storage. And our side has to build, carry out the entire structure, in fact, on the territory of the alienation zone. And actually, because of the inability to do construction work and the inability to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u37	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u38	In fact, the incoherence of the construction and land - building issues makes it impossible for us to continue these obligations in the construction work. And that's actually what it requires, including the adoption of the bill. So I call on everyone to support this bill and to vote in the first reading and to work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u39	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Are we ready to vote? Mr. Igor? Mr. Maxim? You're ready, aren't you? We have a final word on the regulation. Mr. Ostap, is there a need? If necessary, I give the closing statement to Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak. Then the vote will take place. Everyone, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite the deputies to the Hall. Ostap Mikhailovich, 3 minutes, closing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u40	Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I am very grateful for the quality of the debate and I would like to ask once again to support this bill because it allows us as a nation to move from tragedy through overcoming, through transparency, through mines to development. And, of course, this bill will give a serious boost to the development of not only the tourism sector, which has been mentioned today, but other areas. I look forward to a positive vote. Thank you to the environmental committee, first of all, and hopefully we'll prepare a bill for second reading much more qualitatively, which will take into account those proposals that have made to the MPs. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u41	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. I'll place a rating vote with your permission to check the room's mobilization to make decisions. And I'm asking all the national MPs to take part in the rating vote. So, honourable colleagues, the rating vote, and please take part in this vote. Please vote. [[16:53:35]] For 258. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the resolution of specific issues of the territorial legal regime that have been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster (number 4437) on the basis of a committee proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:54:21]] For 261 Decision taken. Minister, thank you for your fruitful work. Welcome to the drafters of the bill and welcome to the committee on fruitful work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you once again that we have today a draft of Law 4542 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Exemption from Pension Taxation. And I think all the national MPs would like to report to their voters that they will be in the process of considering this bill. So I ask you to stay in the hall and continue our work. Dear colleagues, we now have two bills, and the authors have requested that these bills be transposed. And we're going to chapter "Other Readings." In "Second Reading" we have draft Law 2418a, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity, on the Liberalization of the State Oversight System. And that's the law that's included in the package of laws needed to cooperate with the IMF. And I, my dear colleagues, very much ask everyone for careful systematic consideration. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to report. I invite you to the word of Ephesians, but please from the rostrum, Mr. Ephimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs of Ukraine, the honourable voters! On November 12, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity on the Liberalization of the System of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity. The completed registration number 2418a from 15.09.2015, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Kiral, Halasyuk, Solovya. The purpose of the bill is to improve and modernise state oversight in the field of economic activity, to increase mutual trust between operators and public authorities, and to promote the establishment of partner relations between the State and entrepreneurs. In the process of drafting the bill, 125 amendments were made to the second reading by law-makers, of whom 90 comments and suggestions were proposed, members of the committee to take fully into account in part or editorially, 35 were rejected. In the course of the drafting of the second reading bill, taking into account that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted, at the same time, the first reading of the Government Bill 2531a amending the Law on the Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, part of the implementation of an integrated automated system of State oversight with information on all measures taken and regulations on the posting on official websites of State bodies for the supervision of legal acts, which was checked during the implementation of control measures, the Committee on the Proposal of the Supreme Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had decided to include in the bill 2418a of bill 2531a. In addition, the law places the maximum possible number of public oversight bodies under the rule of law, providing that the authorities that have the characteristics of State oversight measures provided for in international legislation and their special laws act within the framework of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, taking into account such features. The list of State oversight principles has been expanded, including the presumption of the rightfulness of the conduct of the host subject and the prohibition of planned indicators of the involvement of the host. Planning for State oversight is done only for the annual period with the cancellation of quarterly plans. The scope of the powers of State oversight authorities has been clarified, and the scope of the rights of operators has been expanded in the exercise of State oversight measures, including the expansion of grounds for refusal by officials. The exemption of the owners and their officials from the responsibility for refusing to give testimony or explanations as to the activity of the owner. The project was initiated by the General Legal Administration with observations. On April 13, this year, the committee decided on a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u43	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u44	On 13 April of this year, the Committee adopted a comparative table for the draft Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine in the Field of Economic Activity" on the liberalisation of the system of State oversight in the field of economic activity, introduced by the People's Deputies of Kiral, Halasyuk, Ephim, Rosenblat, Humil, Krivoshia, Kugel, Dubinini, to support technical and legal observations. To consider the Supreme Council and to suggest that it be accepted in a second reading and generally as a law. It is also proposed within the framework of technical legal work to harmonize Bills 2418a and 2531a.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u45	Please, 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u46	on responsibility for the introduction of unreliable information. Please support the committee's decision and take it on second reading and generally as a law that takes into account technical legal observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u47	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I ask you to remain in the rostrum, Mr. Reporter, please remain in the rostrum. Do you hear me or not, Mr. Ephimov? Now we're going to go after the amendments, and you're going to have to comment on every amendment that you're going to make. Dear colleagues, the authors of the amendments, I ask you to prepare yourself for work in the hall. So I'm going to count the revisions that are rejected. 8th, Swede. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 13th, Drozdik. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Fourteenth, Macola. Don't insist. 15th, Solvar. Don't insist. 16th, Boguslaev. Don't insist. 17th, Fishbuck. Don't insist. 24th, Lensky. Don't insist. 25th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 26th, Dove. Don't insist. 27th, Lensky. Don't insist. 38th, Levchenko, Yuri Levchenko. Don't insist. 51st, Oksana Sold. Mrs. Oksana, don't you insist? Don't insist. 59th, Sold. Don't insist. 62nd, Sold. Don't insist. 64th, Dove. Don't insist. 66th, Bird. Don't insist. 67th, Sold. Don't insist. 70th, Sold. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. A few more amendments, and we will move on to making decisions. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. 70th, Sold. Don't insist. 82nd, Captain. Don't insist. 93rd, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u48	Yes, Amendment 103, Helen Sotnik, National MP. Don't insist. Amendment 105, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment 108, National Deputy Levchenko Yuri. He insists. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u49	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill is not acceptable in general as such, because this bill continues to be pursued by the building mafia, which has sat us down, especially in the Supreme Council, and throughout the country, because it is proposed to make it easier. On the contrary, to complicate, excuse, the procedure for inspection of construction subjects, to withdraw it from the Urban Activities Act and to extend it to a general law, thereby making the procedure for checks of all the buildings more difficult, and to increase the illegal structures even more. This is the first time. And secondly, this amendment specifically refers to the totally unacceptableness of the standard that is set out here in the project, that the subject of farming or its officials are not responsible for refusing to give testimony or explanations about the activity of the host subject, because this is, excuse me, a complete nonsense. If the employee of a given host is not responsible for refusing to show, how can you even check something, please tell me? If we have the standard of the Constitution. Please let the chairman finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u51	We have article 63 of the Constitution, which clearly states that a person is not responsible for refusing to show or explain himself about family members or close relatives — a circle defined by law. That's understandable. But you're saying by this law that any employee of any firm can refuse to give any explanation about it. In the cancers of the test. Well, I'm sorry, then how can any tests be conducted at all? Please don't destroy the state, leave any surveillance to avoid creating a wild pseudo woman here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u52	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Please put to the vote Amendment 108 of National MP Yuri Lewchenk. Please vote. [[17:05:39]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Correction not accepted. Amendment number 109, People's Deputy Sotnik. National Deputy Sotnik, do you insist? National MP. 110th. People's deputy Birddog. Don't insist. 111th. People's Deputies of Doves. Don't insist. 112th Amendment. People's MP sold to Oxana. Oh, excuse me, accounted for, yes. Amendment 113. People's Deputy Sold. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this bill provides for two types of consultation: collective general and individual. And what's really good about the project that the committee gives us for the vote is that the general consultations are going to be published on the control body website, and here is the individual in this project that is being proposed not to publish. So that's where it's going to be. This will be a corrupt explanation and a consultation. I propose that all consultations, even when they are individual, be posted on the official body’s website. To avoid any corruption or abuse. Please support the hall with transparency in the work of the control bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u54	Thank you. Are there comments from the committee? A representative from the committee, is there a comment? I won't. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a comment from the committee regarding 113 amendments? If I don't, I'll just put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind. Amendment No. 113 of Oxani People's Deputy Sold. Please vote. [[17:07:49]] For-126 The decision is not made. Amendment 114. People's MP, Oxana Prodan. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this amendment goes on to date. The project foresees that only a consultation that is directed exclusively to him can be used. I suggest that the subject can use any consultation, even if it's not addressed to him, but it's a question. Again, this is the amendment that will make it impossible, at least to reduce the risks posed by corruption in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u56	Thank you. Is there a comment from the committee? None. People's deputies would like to decide on amendment 114 of the Oxana Sales People's Deputies. Please vote. [[17:08:51]] For-153 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 116 of Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment 117, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 118. There's no insistence on Oxana Prodan's national deputy. Amendment number 121, People's Deputy Lensky. Don't insist. Amendment 123, People's MP Macola. Don't insist. And amendment number 125, National Deputy Solvar. Don't insist. We completed our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. I very much ask the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, are we ready to move on to making a decision? Dear colleagues who are near the government's bed, I ask you to take up your jobs, let's move on to making a decision, colleague. Now we're going to vote and I'm asking you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Colleagues! Ready to make a decision? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity" on the liberalisation of the State Oversight System (number 2418a) in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and please vote. IMF law, please support. Important to the government, an important law for Ukraine. Can I have your back, please? [[17:11:50]] For 221 Dear colleagues, it's just recklessness. I see we haven't made it. I'm asking you to come in and take jobs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall. I announce several times when there will be a vote, and you run in the voting room. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, colleagues! Mr. Igor, I ask you to maximize your mobility. And I'm voting for a return to draft Law 2418a. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. Ready? Have you reached the workplace? Everybody in place? 2418a I'm betting on a return to review. Please vote. Please, let's vote on our colleagues. [[17:13:19]] For 213 I'm asking you to include the factions. I'm asking you to include the factions. Dear colleagues, then I put to the vote the proposal to return to the second reading. Can we support such an offer? Dear colleagues, we can. The committee head says we can. Everyone can. Another reading. Colleagues, we can, right? We can. I'm proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law (2418a) for a second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:14:22]] For 240 Decision taken. The law goes on to read again. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you now. I'm asking you to stay put, colleagues. We now have one short bill, but we have 4,542 on pension taxes. And I'm going to ask you to back up the proposal later to put it up faster. And I very much ask that you be prepared to vote -- pension taxes. The amendments were over yesterday, and we can vote today. Now we're going to go through another law that's in order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Go to Nina Petrova and talk to her. Now I'm putting the one that's fine in the daytime. [[B in m in s a l in]] 45. I'll bet on it now. I said no, if there's no support in the room, I won't. I've announced, you think and talk. If you agree, we'll put it in the agenda, it's in the order of the day faster, if you're not in favour, we won't include it. Now we're going to 4594, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. And there's a proposal from the committee that we look at it in a simplified procedure. Anyone who supports the consideration of the 4594 reduced procedure, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. 4594. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[17:16:07]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 4594 is brought to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u59	Andrew Volodymyrovich, if you don't mind, repeat your report because I didn't hear it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 4594 is brought to your attention, and this is a change to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. I would like to brief you on the substance of the bill. You know, in the last two years, there's been a reform on rail transport. There were 116 railway companies in Ukraine, and they were all reorganized into one public stock company under Ukrainian law. This reform has successfully ended, and I welcome you all. Nearly 350,000 people work in this field. Now that there's one public stockholder society, where transparent procurement procedures, where there's no bottom-up corruption, there's no abuse, it's made it very good to balance the payment balance of our railroad. But the railway had always been a strategic enterprise that was on the list of enterprises that were not privatized. Now that we've created a new legal entity, which is called the Public Shareholder Society, our liabilities, and I'm asking all factions of Parliament and groups to include this strategic enterprise in the list of enterprises that are not privatized, but with little detail: because it's already a stock company that they can be corporateized. The committee has considered the bill and recommends it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u61	I ask that you allow Andrew Volodymyrovich to complete his report. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u62	The committee recommends the adoption of the bill, Andrew Volodymyrovich, on the basis and as a whole. Thank you and I very much ask all the deputies in the Hall to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u63	Thank you. Is there a tailor, Eugene Pavlovich? Dear colleagues, are they willing to speak? Yes. I'm asking you to include two in favour, two in the opposite. I'm sorry, it's a procedure. Please. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u64	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. Please give Krivenka to Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u65	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, when we formed a new government with you, we were very clear on the fact that one of the main reasons for the fiasco of the previous government is that it did not implement the coalition agreement. And one of the points that we insisted on when we created the coalition when the power was formed after the elections. Borislav, may I? Thank you. It was about destroying the corporate legal form of a state enterprise as a class, as the main source of corruption, as the main source of inefficient governance. And we made it clear in a coalition agreement to create stockholder societies. In itself, stock companies are a much more effective form. An audit committee appears, a supervisory board appears, an official does not command an enterprise under the table, but enters the supervisory board and is responsible for his decisions, other forms of reporting. Unfortunately, the previous government, the former economy minister, had been completely and completely destroyed. And I very much hope that Ivan Stepanovich of Cuba's tribute to me has made every effort to put an end to this apathy, this nonsense in the world called "state enterprises." Those enterprises that are always going to be state-owned: the monetary court, maybe there's a powder plant -- they're going to be executed enterprises. So today, I think we really need to involve foreign strategic investors strategically in our enterprises under three clear requirements: investment in transferable technologies, investment in investment and market volumes, in terms of implementation. And to maintain effective management, to sell 20-30 percent to our strategies: Boeing, Airbus and EDS. And we should do the same with our railroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u66	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u67	So I urge the government to make a clear concept of involving our strategic partners, and at this point we are ready to take the railway back to those who are not privatized, but this is the way to nowhere and the way to inefficiency. Calling for partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u68	Thank you very much. From Self-Help, Happy Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u70	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. I would like to point out that the Self-Help Union will unreservedly support this bill. You and I are really talking about one of the key, strategic enterprises that we have to define together. Not because of public statements about the need to involve investors and the need to remove such enterprises from lists that are not subject to privatization. We just think that today's decision by Parliament that will allow us to implement international standards for state-owned enterprises will allow us to bring our state-owned enterprise to the level that will be necessary to make the railway an efficient business, this is a strategic object, this is a strategic asset. And we urge the entire room to support this bill on the strategy of the investment involved, and there are other tools, such as loans, other cooperation with international investors. And for today, Ukraine, with such an asset, has to do everything to put the best international standards of governance in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u72	Thank you. May I have the floor to the people's deputies, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, it is clear that this law must be adopted because it is a strategic structure. But I have a question, and I would like to ask you, if the Cabinet of Ministers will give the government, we have an average salary in Ukraine, if you believe statistics, of less than 5,000 dollars. At the same time, we've set a salary for the head of the Crucifixion for a year, and for his hard work, he's going to get a half a million dollars. I have a question, please tell me, and what's the ratio between the average pay of the Railroads and the salary they set for the foreigner? Ukraine seems to be a paradise for hadharbaiters and, at the same time, we obviously do not have our own experts. I think people should know about this. Well, there can't be a ratio, a difference in thousands and hundreds of thousands of times, it's just an absurd and disrespectful Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u74	Thank you. Bondar Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u75	Of course, the transportation sector of Ukraine is the most important sector that exists in the country today. The railway is almost 22,000 km of rail farming. Without the railway, the industry will not work completely, without the railway there will be no passenger connections, without the railway we will lose the link between the district centers, the regions and, in fact, we will lose the transit potential of Ukraine. If you look at what's been going on for the last few years, it's just a disaster. Capital mid-term repairs don't take place. Wagon farming is over, locomotives don't update, wages just get ridiculous, nobody thinks how to raise. Transit potential lost. Of course, we will support today's decision to ban, not from privatizing these enterprises, but even from thinking that such enterprises can be sold from state property. We're talking about what we need to do is make a comprehensive program of fully modernizing the railways of Ukraine. We're talking about the need for strong investment, to load the Ukrainian railway industry, which is able to get the Ukrainian railway to a completely different, quality level. These are fast trains, these are brand new locomotives, this is a train park that has to be completely updated. All that was used today was a full reserve, everything that was possible was removed from the railway. Untransparent tenders in recent years, the cost of tenders exceeded by 3-5 times, have set foreigners at one and a half million dollars. Show me who has such wages in Ukraine? We don't have our own railroads, our own generals, who are able to get order and give the railroad a new breath? Yes. We have no desire to think about our people, we have no desire to be proud of our experts. We need to stop this process. We need to keep order. We're here to include the railway in a list that is not privatized, but we need a comprehensive program involving the Ukrainian industry. Dnipropetrovsk, Kremenchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u76	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u77	Dnipropetrovsk, Kremenchuk, Kharkiv other regions of Ukraine, where there is an industry for railways, you have to pick them up, give them government orders. And today we have to vote, and "The Rebirth Party" will vote, will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. All of them were speaking in groups. All right, Yuri Lewchenko, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u79	You haven't shown yet, have you? All right, all right, I'll give it to you. One minute, Lechchenka. Getting ready is Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u80	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, the bill is correct, there is, in fact, no right to speak. There's only one moment that's very interesting by procedure. And I'm talking to Mr. Dove right now, and hopefully he'll listen to me, so he can actually do something about it. The point is, it's exactly the same, word for word, the identical bill was registered to me in six months, before this bill. Because we, in fact, called freedom to the point that we were trying to privatize the Cruise Station, and we prepared the appropriate bill and registered it back in December 2015. But by some miracle of breaking the Rules six months later, in May 2016, we were able to register the same project, one in each word, and now we're looking at it and the original one even forgot about it. So I'm simply asking you very much, Mr. Head, to bring the order in the apparatus so that it's not as it is for the apparatus, as it is now, that Kabmin is more important than the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Yvchenko. Yeah? Turn on the microphone, please, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u82	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we're considering a really important law today, and "The Fatherland" will definitely support it, it's about leaving the Crucifixion Center in state ownership today. But I'm going to the government. I want to understand, and perhaps all MPs and societies want to understand, and what objects we really have are strategic. Crossroads is agreed, we vote, let's not rule out. What about the gates? What about "Artem-sil"? This is the only business that makes road salt and food salt in Ukraine. It's essentially who buys this business -- it's going to be a future monopoly. What about PEK, and what about infrastructure objects? We need to have a discussion, not that the next bill, for example, is a bill on state property that is not subject to privatization by a number of Zacarpathian enterprises. Listen, let's put this in order, let's understand that the state is strategic, let's define, and let's pass and start once.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u83	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u84	But before that, it's very important: let's show everyone the conditions of this transparent privatization. What will happen to the earth: Will it be scattered? What will happen to objects without land: Will these be transparent auctions, as transparent as possible? And so on and so forth. Without conditions, MPs and people will not believe in this privatization. Thank you. We're voting for this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you, there's been both Rebirth and the will of the people. Let's do this very briefly. Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u86	Dear colleagues and the Ukrainian people! I want to address myself as a descendant of the Cossack people in order to ban the privatization of the Ukrainian Conquest. I heard today that the champion of the world, our horse Densh, is now, I don't know why, in stables in Moscow. Cavalry's being robbed! And behind the lands are the bandits, the thugs of the last brigade sitting behind their backs, so the Ukrainian Conquest has to be banned, because what was acquired by our ancestors from the princes, from the Cossacks, that gene pool, which is the best in the world, is just going to be torn apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u87	Colleagues, this is your last gig. Deputy Gusak. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that a decision will be taken. Please, one minute. Goose. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u88	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, in addition to the increase in municipal tariffs, there has been another increase in tariffs in Ukraine since May 1. By 15 percent, rail freight tariffs had been raised. Interestingly, last year the Railroad has already received a 30 percent increase in freight fares. This gave an additional 7.5 billion dollars. And it's such an impression that last year the Crucifixion wrote as a justification that the transport of heat, of electricity, reached 100 percent. It seems that this year they changed only the date to justify the increase in tariffs. Because heat and electricity have not been reduced. And that's strange, because no new truck or electric car, the Cruise Station, bought it last year. This year's Crossroads.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u89	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u90	As a result of this increase in tariffs, 4 billion dollars will be received. And we really hope that they will eventually buy new heat. And today, a new head of the Baltic Railroads came to the transport committee, and he said that he would focus on overcoming corruption and increasing efficiency in the Crucifixion itself. That's what we're gonna do. And let the Crucifixion stay in state property. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Since the committee, Ivanchuk, turn on the microphone. And please take up jobs, colleagues. Let's go into the hall. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u92	I thank all factions and groups for supporting this bill. And with legal certainty, I recommend that the bill be adopted as a basis and, as a whole, the bill that includes the public shareholders' association "Ukrainian Railway" in Appendix 2. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u93	Thank you. The bill brought the whole room together, and all the factions expressed their support for it. These are rare incidents in our session hall, and I welcome us as I welcome Andrija Volodymyrovich. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (4594) on the Committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:35:20.]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed. Welcome to the committee, Andrija Volodymyrovich, personally with this convincing victory at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, while on the committee's level still clarifying the issue of pension taxation, the last final discussions are still under way, and they are almost over, we have another IMF law (2413a) – this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of public regulation of financial services markets. Mr. John, I'll explain: it was this morning, and I put it off because the authors asked him to move it. We had it in the morning, it was our first draft in the morning, but the authors asked me to move it. There's a reconciliation of all factions, colleagues. Let me ask you, let's vote now, can we put it up? It was in the morning, the authors asked him to move it, we moved it in the morning, and so, colleagues, we'll check if he's ready. Mr. Alexander, let's see if he's ready. So who supports the proposal that we now put a bill for consideration in the morning 2413a is the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the consolidation of the functions of the government regulation of financial services markets. The committee proposes a foundation. Who supports us to consider it now, please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[17:37:13]] For 180. The proposal was not supported. And then I'm going to make the next proposal. Colleagues, I was told that all the final discussions on the bill 4542, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation, that the committee held the last consultations and the committee made a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to you that we do. He's standing in front of three bills so we can put him on the table right now so that we can accept him today. It's a retirement tax waiver. This is a decision that millions of Ukrainians are waiting for. And I ask you to take a very responsible approach to this vote. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, and I propose to put forward a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Pension Tax Exemption (4542). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Taxation of pensions. [[17:38:40]] For 246 The hall was reunited. Decision taken. And we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. It's a second reading. The authors of the amendments would like to prepare for work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On June 1, 2016, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy considered the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation, which was revised in a simplified procedure until the second reading. The second reading of the bill included 32 amendments, of which 4 amendments were included, and 6 amendments were taken into account in part and in fact the other 22 were rejected. There's a bill that's been worked out for you. The contents made him that way. We are exempt from the taxation of the pensions of full-time workers and non-working pensioners. But we're doing this kind of social justice: pensions that are more than 10 living minimums for people who have lost their jobs, that's 10 thousand 740 dollars, will be taxed at a rate of 80 percent, at a rate accepted by 13 amendments. Now I hear a lot of different thoughts in the hall that it's a high stake. So please note the 13th amendment. In the 15th amendment, it was proposed that more than 10 thousand 740 pensions should be taxed at a total rate of 18 percent. The third block of questions concerned the correction of the decreasing factor applied in the payment of pensions of 0.85. In addressing this issue and in the working groups, including, we've come to the conclusion that we can't take this down right now. It only works until December 31, 2016, and for the budget, it is worth 2.4 billion dollars for the Pension Fund. Therefore, the laws that regulate such a restriction have not been proposed to you. It is with the adoption of the budget for the following year that we can settle the issue of applying the lowering rate to pensions that will already be paid as of 1 January 2017. In summary, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Tax Code Amendment Act (No. 4542) as a whole to be adopted in the second reading and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u95	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course. Of course, we follow all the adjustments! We're going after all the repairs! Please, amendment number one. National Deputy Yuri Suhevich. Please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The first amendment refers to the very name of the law. I want to say that all the government has offered is a lie, because it's not about the withdrawal of pensions from the working pensioners of the most-sequential category. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be removed so far, because it's about the name, when we vote for the whole law, then we'll talk about the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u97	Thank you. So we're not voting? People's MP Dirov? Don't insist. Amendment number two was. Amendment number 3. People's deputy Lazko. None. Thank you. Amendment number 4. The Royal People's Deputy. Is he insisting? I'm asking you to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I insist that the title and the substance of this bill be changed because, on the one hand, we are doing a good job and we are removing a completely inadequate pension tax rule today. On the other hand, new pension taxes are being introduced in parallel. I believe that this is an unacceptable norm, and we need to take this issue very carefully today. I also believe that we need to pay attention today, and what to do to those pensioners who have paid a pension tax all year long, and now the pension tax will be abolished. What's going to happen to that money? No, unfortunately, the mechanism for compensation to the people of the lists that have been made. That's why I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u99	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u100	Dear colleague, the law cannot be reversed: indeed, those pensioners from whom the income tax was maintained will not be able to receive the amounts paid in either last year or 5 months of this year. That's the first one. So given the third block that I said we can't set a difference in the coefficient, the name of the draft law can't be changed. And about taxing. We don't set any new taxes. This is a socially fair norm because pension benefits are provided with pensions of no more than 10,000 dollars. So more than 10,000 740 pensions, I think it's probably normal to tax at the base rate of 18 percent, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u101	Thank you. National Deputy Natalia Královska, do you insist on voting? Yes. Please put Amendment 4 to the vote. [[17:45:23]] For-100 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the next amendment. Amendment 8, National Deputy Vanat. Don't insist. Amendment 9, People's Chamberlain. Don't insist. Amendment number 13. Please, National Deputy Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u102	Mrs. Nina, I still support the understanding of tax evasion, it's not taxation, it's just retirement for working pensioners. Today, though, the heads of rural councils were on the telephone, with 100 percent of them not paying their pension. And so, I think let's literally work with you in a week to get people who work to just 100 percent take away from government officials. I'm asking you to make the 13th amendment for confirmation, because this is the confiscation of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u103	I'm asking the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u104	The 13th amendment we were just talking about is really setting the tax rate 80 percent per pension more than 10 thousand 740. So if your will is to put it to the test, let us vote for it. Regarding the fourth block or the third block on the coefficient, indeed, there are pensioners working in the public service who do not receive a pension at all. But this is the norm that we've introduced by the end of this year, so I think it should be the government's actions in relation to this shameful practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u105	Thank you. National MP Yuri Suhević, author of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u106	Your Honor! The bottom line is that 80 percent of those who didn't contribute to the Pension Fund are there. They paid $4,000, no more. And that's why I think they get these pensions illegally. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u107	Thank you. Do you insist on confirming the amendments? Please place on confirmation number 13 of National MP Yuri Suhevich. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[17:48:20]] For-79 The decision is not taken. So I would like to ask the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u108	So we're dealing with a situation that we've abolished 80 percent pension taxes that make up more than 10 thousand 740 dollars. So I'm asking you to make a 15th amendment, which says that more than 10,000 740 pensions are taxed at a basic rate of 18 percent. This will be right and social justice. Please vote for the 15th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u109	Thank you. And we have an amendment to the 15th National MP of the Chicken. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind about amendment number 15. Please vote. [[17:49:35]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u110	We can't move on, because it's going to be completely socially unfair. If we don't have 226 votes and we don't have 226 votes to pass the law, why did we even have to consider it now?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u111	People's MP Chicken, please, the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I would now like to turn to your conscience, to your sense of justice, because it is entirely objective, and I agree that everyone will share with me my point of view, the unjustly muddy pensioners today to release from retirement. In general, when they received higher pensions, they did not provide higher contributions to the Pension Fund. That is why there is such a good safeguard: that the issue is not only of a fiscal nature but also of social justice. Those who receive a pension higher than 10 minimum of living (today 10,000, 740) have to pay a basic tax rate of 18 percent. And that's going to be accepted by a positive society. Friends, it's a matter of honesty before conscience, both in front of people, and in front of society. I ask you to put this amendment back on the table and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u113	Calm down! Calm down! Calm down! Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic. And Ostrikova and Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised to hear the words "justice" in the hall, which in the morning voted in favour of pensions at almost 300,000 dollars for judges. And when Mr. Suhevich tried to introduce taxation -- and it's fair -- for more than 10,000 pensions, we kicked that right out of the law. Now it's going to be 18,000. It's a pathetic gift, it's a shame, but I'm offering to support at least this fee. Throw the bone to Ukrainian pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u115	Thank you. Ostrikov's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, indeed, the pension is a kind of social security that is guaranteed by the Constitution, but we don't have a accumulation system operating in Ukraine, we have a solidarity system, and we all pay contributions, the only social contribution that goes into a single boiler. Therefore, higher pensions, which are not secured by the only social contribution, will really be taxed fairly. So we've calculated that 10,740 is the amount that pensions are not secured by a single social contribution and it's absolutely fair to introduce a total tax of 18 percent over the pension of 10,740. If we don't support it now, they won't tax at all. Let's consolidate this 226 "for" rate 18 percent by the amount of overrun.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u117	Thank you. He's an opposition block somebody else. Who? Royal? Please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, we must understand that we can now write any rule, paper will hold and endure everything, and we have done so for a year and a half. But if the rule is legally illiterate, contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution, they will also go and stand through the courts, be able to win and defend their right to a full pension. We therefore propose that this rule be fully harmonized with article 22 and article 58 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And in no case is blackmail appropriate here at this time, that if this rule is not adopted, the law is not passed. Let us make this provision a separate draft, write it in writing, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, and find out who these people are, who today receive such a pension If they are national deputies, they will certainly have to take the entire pension and pay the minimum, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u119	Mrs. Natalia! Fellow MPs, I'd like to have your attention for a moment. Another 10 minutes of discussion, and there won't be any MPs in the room on the double issue. And I very much ask you, colleagues, if you'll excuse us for stopping the discussion and moving on to the decision-making process. And I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. This is a wonderful bill of law that awaits millions of Ukrainians. I ask the committee to speak again, and then we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Nina Petrovna, make a statement to the committee, and we will be voting right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, from each faction is a representative of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, and he explains to you that it is in the working groups that we have very well worked out in the category of people who receive more than 10 thousand 740 dollars. The 450 who receive more than 15,000 pensions continue to do so. So, I think so. Now we, the Hall, are going to split up at all, because everyone thinks that pensions are not guaranteed by contributions, should be taxed. And the difference is 80 or 18 percent. We voted in favour of 80. This amendment has now been rejected. That's why we're putting 18 percent of the amendment on confirmation. I'm asking you to consolidate, vote, we need 226 votes, and the system will work. While our high-retirement pensioners have been paying an income tax since 2005 at the standard pension rate of more than 10,000 dollars. It's used to practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u121	Colleagues, we vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Everyone in the room is backing her up. All we have to do is vote, colleagues. The committee’s head, who was very active and active, came up with a compromise proposal supported by all factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take your jobs. And I'm voting on Amendment No.15, which is asked to support the committee head. Dear colleagues, may I have your vote, the 15th Amendment. Please support the committee head's proposal. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:56:46]] For 248 Correction accepted. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Who Requires Correction? Please give the word Yuri Suhevich. The word Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, these are the pensions of low-paid pensioners, working pensioners, the poorest, the poorest that this bill does not touch. They're still taxing them. Think about it, metallurgy, even. miners who had high wages paid their premiums and are now taxed, and large categories of wealthy privileged pensioners remain untaxed. So it's about. This amendment requires, however, that you show mercy to those pensioners who work blood, blood, and then work on those pensions, and are now taxed. And those who didn't pay the premiums, they're freeing them. Please support Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u123	Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u124	Dear colleague, we've talked to you before, and at the committee meeting, it's not about the tax, it's about the coefficient that applies to working pensioners. At the same time, 1 thousand and 611 dollars will not be applied to the pension. Restrictions only apply to working pensioners with a pension of more than 1 thousand 611 bracelets. Unfortunately, I realize it's wrong and it's a small pension, but we can't either remove the limit now or raise this amount of pension that doesn't apply the limit. This limit only applies until the end of this year. Please don't miss it when we take the budget. It was at the time of the adoption of the budget that changes were made to the pension law to which these restrictions were established. But they only work until December 31st of this year. Let's suffer and for the next year we'll demand the government to cancel this coefficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u125	Thank you. Are you insisting? I put to the vote the amendment of 23 national deputies Yuri Suhevich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[17:59:38]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, two more speeches, and we're moving on to the vote. I'm asking you to stay put. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! My speech is also about the 24th proposal. There are problems in applying the declining coefficient to working pensioners. Here the honourable representative of the committee says that there is no corresponding budget. But where is the principle of social justice, when we tax high pensions and apply the coefficient to working pensioners, because these pensioners are not working out of a good life. And accordingly a very large number of pensioners, who are, have retired early on at the age of retirement, are applying this coefficient accordingly. I know he's on time. But this term can be very important to ensure the viability of socially unprotected populations. So I do propose to support this proposal and to remove the infamous coefficient that is now being applied to a very large number of our citizens of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u127	Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment 24 of the People's Deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[18:01:10]] For-129 The decision is not made. Queen, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I ask for confirmation of the 28 amendments. And I insist that today's working pensioners, who are not in the state, not in the public service, and pensioners who have retired under the "black bill" law, we simply have a duty to carry out their duties and to relieve these people of various factors and taxes, and to leave the limits of their pension only for MPs, prosecutors and judges. This is provided for by this amendment. Because otherwise, it's not gonna be the law that we're going to adopt today, it's gonna sound empty, because millions of retired workers are going to remain in the same difficult conditions. And you and I will be very proud to shout that we have solved the problem, and in fact only more people have turned against themselves and against adequacy. Please support the 28th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u129	You insist on voting, don't you? Dear colleagues, who support Amendment 28 of the Royal People's Deputies, please vote. [[18:02:48]] For-136 The decision is not made. Ladies and gentlemen, the final amendment is about to take place. I ask you to enter the Hall, I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to warn the deputies that a decision will now be taken. Now I'm asking for the last repair of the Sphinx, turn on the microphone. People's MP Sphinx.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I insist on Amendment 27, of which I am the author. This amendment is recognized to give temporary until 2025 to women who have reached the age of 55 and who are over 30 years of age and who do not work early to receive a reduced pension. I would like to recall that, in January 2015, a law with the same provisions had already been adopted to protect the rights of women of pre-retirement age who were not competitive in the labour market and were in difficult economic circumstances due to the mass dismissals of workers, i.e., the payment of such pensions was seen as an alternative to unemployment benefits. The President had vetoed the bill and Parliament would not be able to overcome the veto, although everyone agreed that it was vital. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-02-m1.u131	You insist on voting, and I put to the vote the 27th amendment of the People's Deputies of Sphenov. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:04:25]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we completed the discussion of the bill and we can move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm going to continue our session for 15 minutes. And now we're going to the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Pension Taxation (number 4542) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:05:26]] For 274 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, welcome. Welcome to the authors. We welcome all fellow members of the National Deputies. Now we have an announcement. Please listen. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council's Rules, and according to the minutes of the Assembly of the political party's parliamentary faction, the Opposition Block, I report the election by its co-chairs of the opposition faction of the National Deputies of Boyk Yury and Vilkul Alexander. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today has been an extremely important and effective day. One issue we haven't decided on is the issue of quotas, the protection of Ukrainian music and Ukrainian language. I'm publicly addressing all the factions now, the committee, so that we can prepare this bill by next week so that we can adopt it next week. As Head of the Supreme Council, I will make every effort to find a unified bill that will be supported in our Hall, and we will protect Ukrainian language and Ukrainian song, and I am confident that the Ukrainian Parliament will take this responsible and important decision for Ukraine. Thanks for the job. Thank you for today. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
