ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u1	Good evening, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! I ask the deputies to take up their jobs and prepare for registration. Please, we're taking up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the job is about to begin. Please. Dear colleagues! Are you ready for your registration? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please enable the registration system. [[16:02:59]] 339 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! I would like to report that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdan Vasilovich Dubnevich. Let's welcome him, our colleague, to our birthday! [[Applause]] I would also like to report that we have before us a large number of extremely important bills, such as the whole block of laws relating to cooperation with the IMF, which have been called off in connection with the change of government and are now being brought back to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We had no plenary sessions for three weeks. And that's why I'm counting on the fruitful and productive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before I go into the agenda, I want to read out a statement that came from two factions -- from the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland faction -- that requires two factions to announce a recess. But it was very positive that they decided to change the break from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And hopefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u2	But you just said it was a performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Oleg Valeriyovich and Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u3	We ask for half an hour of recess, a collection of all the heads of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, there is a requirement for two factions to announce. How many minutes apart? 30-minute break, right, from the two hours we have to work, right? From the two hours we have to work. Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the session, I am forced to comply with the half-hour recess rule. I ask all the heads of factions to come to me on this break so that we can hold a meeting. People's deputies, I very much ask you to stay here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in half an hour, no later than 4:30 p.m. we will continue our work. And I very much ask all national deputies to remain in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. So at 4:30, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess, according to the demands of the two factions, is exhausted. So we continue our work and I ask my fellow deputies to come into the hall. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on to the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, either the speech or the break is according to the Rules. I had just consulted with Oksana Siroid, and she confirmed to me that according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u6	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u7	Yes, it is. Dear colleagues! Okay. Who do you trust, Oleg Valeriovich? Oleg Valeriyovich, please report from the rostrum. Please, before you begin, ask the deputies to come into the hall. And, Baby, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, why did we take a break with the Fatherland faction? Today, there is a violent level of corruption in the country, and every day we receive reports from international investigative organizations that the highest Ukrainian high-ranking population: the president, the head of the National Bank, the minister of finance -- have offshores, have billions abroad, do not pay taxes. The recently looting government of Groysman-Porzenka raised gas prices to 7 dollars per cube, canceling the consumption rate, cancelling the gas price, gas prices are rising, wages, pensions are falling, people are being robbed, people can't buy the medicine, nor can they buy a piece of bread. They're billions of dollars abroad, they're not paying taxes, and unlike the world that's investigating offshore affairs, they're refusing to investigate these offshore affairs. That's why the Radical Party faction insists -- we're a parliamentary-presidential republic -- and I'm addressing the so-called parliamentary majority, which is not really there, stop transforming Parliament into a branch of the President's Administration. We demand the establishment in Parliament of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the corruption of the Offshores of the President of Ukraine and its surroundings, the People's Deputy Connonnka, the Head of the National Bank of Honduras, the First Deputy Head of the Security and Defence Council of Gladkovsky, the Minister of Finance of Danielchuk. We demand the resignation of the finance minister Danilchuk, who now owns three offshore companies. We're asking the government to return to the peasants, to return to the Ukrainian citizens the tax price for gas for a thousand 200 cubes for 3,000 600 dollars. Stop robbing people! Or return the money back to Ukraine from offshore, pay taxes, and then demand another from everyone. When the president, when government officials don't pay taxes, hide money in offshores, rob people, we won't let this robbery policy be pursued. We block the work of the Parliamentary Court until our demands are met. Julia, word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to let you know that, with the results of our meeting, we discussed the creation of the TSC and agreed that the proposal made by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko we would speak, prepare and make as a compromise proposal. It was also agreed that tomorrow we would meet, the heads of all factions of Parliament, with Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovic Groissman of Ukraine, to discuss the issue of tariffs. And one more thing. I want to go to Oleg Valeriovich, to Julia Volodymyrna, and to all the heads of the factions. Dear colleagues, during the Conciliation Council, I informed all in attendance. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, Reverend Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk Ivanchuk, I ask you to listen when the Head of the Supreme Council speaks. Dear colleagues! There were no plenary meetings for three weeks, there were huge numbers of important questions, and I expressed and expressed my willingness to work 18 hours a day. We can gather any meetings before and after the plenary meetings. But I would like the plenary meetings to be used for our work directly, to make decisions, to adopt the laws that are necessary for the Ukrainian state. I'm addressing all the committee heads that demanded the adoption of some of the other bills, and we need to organize the work so that all of the discussions we're having can be held outside the plenary. As promised, I will always comply with the rule and give the necessary time for a break. But I would like the little time we have to use as much as possible to enact laws. Thank you. There can't be a word transfer, Julia Volodymyrna, you know. One speaker is given the word. Julia Volodymyrna, please. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] by performing. Julia Volodymyrna, Oleg Valeriyovich, I have fulfilled all the rules of the Rules. Unforeseeable broadcast. Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to the first question of order of the day. I'm asking everyone to get ready for work. [[B in m in s a l in]] So the first question. So before that, I will read important announcements. I want to announce two announcements that are in the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich, Velikin Oleg Markovich and Saurusov Maxima Vitaliyovich as part of the party's deputy faction "Block of Peter Poroshenko". We welcome our colleagues to the largest faction of Parliament. I would also like to report that, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call since 21 April 2016, I report on the election of the deputy leader of the Party of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka", the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sold to Oksana Petrovna. Welcome to Mrs. Oksana with such a responsible position and chain in our work. Thank you. Thus, according to the Rules, the first issue we have is the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to invalidate the obligation to register foreign investment (No. 2763). And I'm proposing that we discuss this bill in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on a motion for a brief motion for draft Law 2763. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:46:26]] For 186 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Semenich's chief reporter, Roman Sergiyovich. I'll ask you to step out of place, and you'll be given the same time. And I invite you to the report by Semenich Roman Sergiyovich. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Your point is small in size, but a very important bill of 2763, which concerns the system of business deregulation. The bill amends a number of articles of legislation: The master's code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Investment (on the obligation of government investment registration), in particular foreign investment, and laid down in article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Foreign Investment Regime, which also cancels the state investment registration and replaces it only by filing in accordance with the forms and terms of the statistical report on foreign investment already made. At the moment, the procedure involves three days, but in practice everything looks different. Very often companies stop halfway, the State Fiscal Service, for example, requires additional documents or other artificial barriers to business. In 2014 alone, the volume of foreign direct investment in Ukraine’s economy decreased by almost $12 billion. Undoubtedly, the main reason is the East War, but the lack of structural reforms, corruption, is no less, perhaps more, a threat. The existing system is too regulated and does not correspond to modern realities. The obligation to register merely creates unjustified obstacles to business, since the fact that an entity has foreign investment is fixed by statutory documents and is submitted to the sole national register of legal and physical persons of entrepreneurs. The purpose of the bill is to create a modern business environment by maximizing the order of investment by introducing the stated principle of state accounting and by making it impossible to show signs of corruption in their registration. I will be frank, it is unlikely that the adoption of this bill will be caused by the boom of foreign investment, but it is overwhelming that Ukraine today is demonstrating the clear and transparent signals that we need to make the most of these investments. I would like to thank all the initiators and co-authors of this legislative initiative, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u11	Thank you. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship will report to Michaela Himil. Yes, Mr. Halasyuk? Please, Mr. Mikhailo. Turn on the Hop's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on June 17, 2015, discussed the bill to amend certain legislative acts to invalidate the obligation to register foreign investment. The main purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is to create a modern investment environment by maximizing investment by introducing the stated principle of state accounting, which makes it impossible to show signs of corruption in their national registration and to introduce specific codification changes to actual legislation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, supports the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading, but makes some observations and suggestions. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, in its conclusion of June 3, notes that the draft act does not reveal corruption and that the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. I would also like to point out that during the Committee's consideration, it was pointed out that the bill would help to create more attractive conditions at the legislative level for foreign investment and would allow artificial barriers to the creation of enterprises with foreign investment to be removed. In view of the foregoing, I want to say the same thing, that we must now fight for foreign investment, to take it to Ukraine and create jobs in us. A general conclusion: please support the committee's decision and vote in favour of the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u13	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record for two for two for two against the factions. Please. From Self-Help, please, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Passes the word to Ostrecki, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to say that the fact that foreign investment is made is enshrined in the statutes, the statutes, the minutes of the congregations of participants. This information is supplied to the sole register of legal persons. This is finally confirmed by a customs declaration if the investment is property or a bank statement if the investment is a payment of living expenses. This is publicly available information, so the procedure for registering foreign investments makes no sense to the state as it is today. Whoever has encountered the process of registering foreign investments knows that first the enterprise needs to collect documents, to submit them to the local authority of the DFS, which is touching each letter. And only if the DFS comes to a positive conclusion on the collected documents will the corresponding package be transferred to the city’s leisure center. And is that a simple order? We're all talking to you about simplifying business, involving investment, and in fact, the Foreign Investment Act provides for an overly complex order, to which there are still a number of observations in the sub-laws. In fact, the bill proposes to cancel the state registration of foreign investments and replace it with a statistical report on foreign investments already made. In fact, although I am the author of this bill, and I ask you all to support it, there is no limit to perfection, so between the first and second readings, you and I need to provide in this bill a standard that guarantees the protection and stability of the guarantees for those investments that have already been made and registered. We can do this between first and second reading, and now, colleagues, I propose that we support this important bill for simplifying foreign investment as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u17	Sobolje, Fatherland. All of this sounds very good, just in the context of offshore scandals, I want to remind you that 67 percent of last year, these were so-called foreign investments from offshore jurisdictions. Because we want to simplify and vice versa, if we really want to fight off-shore jurisdiction, the first thing we have to do is, in this law, raise the standards that we have entered into the registration regarding the limitation of offshore jurisdiction and ban off-shore investment. Because we have a strange way of doing that. Countries where there are advanced technologies, the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom is somewhere in 5, 6, 7 places, and in the first place we have a country with the most outstanding foreign investments from Cyprus, the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands. Let's stop this. The other one. This law holds the standard by which we actually cancel the act of comparing Ukrainian investment to foreign investment. I think that this norm is a disgraceful practice, this norm must remain so as not to undermine Ukrainian investment. For this reason, I have an offer. To the authors of the law to redraft this rule in two positions regarding offshore jurisdictions. And secondly, remove the norm where there is actually discrimination in terms of Ukrainian investment. This law can then be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u19	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, in the last two years, production in Ukraine has dropped by 20 percent, without taking account of the occupied territories. The result was a sharp decline in the standard of living. And in order to restore real economic growth and actually improve people's well-being, real, not 50 dollars, as we are asked to vote, we need a high economic growth. And the source of economic growth is investment. The proposed bill is aimed at simplifying the order of foreign investment in Ukraine through the introduction of the claimed principle of accounting. We think that the actual procedure for registering investments is artificial and unreasonable and does not create real conditions for controlling investment and using it. Instead, a valid system creates opportunities for corruption at the level of local administrations, since an unregistered investment does not allow foreign investors or enterprises with foreign investment in the benefits provided by legislation. And in current legislation, there's a rule like fixing investments in accounting logs. This standard now appears to be an open anachronism in 2016. Thus, this law is designed for deregulation and is positive. We support economic growth, we support investment. And so our faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u20	Thank you. Victor Pinzenick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I would ask everyone not to confuse sin with the righteous, not to mix offshore tax regimes with investments in Ukraine, because these are different things. Let me show you an existing situation. There was someone who wanted to invest in Ukraine. But despite normal procedures, he still has to register the investment. To satisfy the amazing curiosity of the Ukrainian official. There is no other role in registering investments. This is absurd. And we have to remove the obstacles, which we do. Ukraine still has a lot of obstacles. Risks an investor. And we don't have to burden it with additional conditions. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill. Because this has nothing to do with offshore regimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u22	Thank you. What other factions didn't have a word? It's a radical party. Oleg Lazko, please. And that concludes, looks like, the discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! When you're here talking about a favourable investment climate, about making investments in Ukraine, if you're going to count all the money that's been taken out of offshore, from Ukraine to offshore, return it back and pay taxes, we don't have to go for any loans from the International Monetary Fund! We would have lived richer than in Switzerland, Germany, and France combined. And so when you talk about a favourable investment climate, you have to start with yourself! Return what was stolen to the state! Keep the business here! Not from the President, the heads of Nazbank, the finance minister and everyone else, they're hiding everything in the offshores and they want investors to come here! Here, the government has proposed changes to the budget for raising social standards. Do you know how much they raise?Oh, my God! For 30 bracelets to take care of a child! It's one euro a month, it's raising social standards! Billions steal, one euro a six - year - old gives a month! You'd be drowned by that one euro!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! We have completed the discussion of the bill and we can move on to a decision. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. The presentation suggests that most deputies and factions support the bill. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? Are all the deputies in the room ready to vote? I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to invalidate the obligation to register foreign investment (2763), on the basis of proposals by the Committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. [[17:01:11]] For 261 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Do we need a shorter procedure before the second reading? So please, colleagues, let's support the committee and the authors and vote in favour of the shorter procedure for consideration for second reading. I'm voting on the proposal to consider the second reading on a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:01:50]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the next bill, in fact, in the sequel. This bill is 2764. Let's look at it as quickly as possible, he's next in line. And, colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. 2764, abbreviated procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:02:40]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And again, I would like to invite you to the words of Semenho Roman Sergiyovich, from the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, your opinion is proposed by the following bill to improve the investment climate of 2764, which envisions the introduction of a new mechanism to restructure the problem debts of households through the conversion of the company's debts to corporate rights of creditors in the statutory capital of society. To this end, the bill proposes to abolish the current ban on including the creditor's monetary requirements in the company's contribution to statutory capital. There is a ban on the payment of the creditor’s financial requirements to society by exchanging them for corporate rights today in domestic legislation is contrary to the world’s common practice. Such a financial recovery tool has long been known to European legislation. The legitimization of the debt exchange procedure in statutory capital will avoid the debt default society and as a result of bankruptcy in cases where it has exhausted its ability to pay off its debt, but its business is profitable and attractive to the creditor. Statistics show that during the past five years, some 3.5 thousand businesses have been closed down each year through bankruptcy and only a few decades have they just been undergoing rehabilitation. This indicates that there are no effective anti - crisis tools in the enterprise today. The proposed method of financial recovery may be for interested creditors whose requirements make up a substantial part of the overall debt of the company, debt relief or debt reduction will be crucial for the future. In order to avoid misappropriation by unscrupulous creditors in the application of the money requirement conversion mechanism, the draft law specifies the procedure for the admission of third parties of creditors as members of the association. This decision should be adopted by more than 50 percent of the total number of votes cast. GNEU supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading, and those minor comments that have been made can be removed between the first and the second readings. Please support me as a base. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u26	Thank you. Again, Michaelo Humil is invited to the report. Mr. Mikhailo, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for the positive vote for the bill on the previous bill, which cancels the mandatory registration of foreign investment. And according to Bill 2764 of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, on 15 July 2015, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure that the rights to convert money requirements into society were realized, submitted by the People's Deputies of Semimenah and others. The purpose of adopting the bill is to overcome legislative barriers to the restructuring of the debt of households with the possibility of including such debt in contributions to statutory capital and the removal of legal uncertainty, which relates to the procedure for the third party to join the association without transferring a portion of the other party to the statute of association. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that, as a result of the first reading, a bill can be adopted on the basis of some observations, I think we can work on them for a second reading. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption concluded that the draft act did not reveal corruption and that the draft act met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Budget Issues, referring to the expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance, concludes that the implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State budget. Likewise are the positive conclusions of the Committee on European Integration, the legal policy. Finally, in view of the foregoing, the members of the committee adopted a decision on the draft Law (1764) amending certain legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the rights to convert money requirements into society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u28	Mr. Mikhailo, please be done for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u29	submitted by the People’s Deputy of Simeonah and others to the Supreme Council for consideration and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you. I call on everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u30	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. Grigory Aaronovich Sverk, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Mr. Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today this bill proposes for the first time in these two bills to consider debt restructuring, restructuring as a tool for the financial improvement of the economic activity of many owners. What is restructuring in general? It's a transfer of debt in time and space. Even students know that, and there can be no idea that this process can be ignored. It's a fictitious financial mechanism where there's not enough money when debt is created, and you can really change it back into a statutory fund. This will provide an opportunity to avoid many of the bankruptcy’s owners. And that's why, in his faction of Peter Prashenko, he unanimously decided that this bill needed to be supported. We urge everyone to support the debt restructuring bill by transferring part of the debt to the statutory fund, because it is an effective means of combating bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to keep your voice down in the hall. I have to use the microphone to listen to the reporters. And I think it doesn't create any comfort for the atmosphere, and for no one has the understanding that it gives authority to our Parliament. And also the honourable blockers, I'm asking you to be quieter because you don't hear the reporters at all. If you can block the rostrum more disciplinedly, thank you very much. The word is given to Roman’s Anatoliyevna, and it is given to Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, this bill actually allows the company to effectively manage its debt to creditors, if the law rules become law, the creditor will be able to transfer or convert its payment requirement to the statutory capital of the company. So this creditor is going to be a member of the company, and the debt of the latter is going to stop. will be suspended in exchange for corporate rights. In fact, the situation is good for everyone, because the enterprise, society will get rid of its debts, and the creditor will be able to become part of it, and thus get some control over its financial and economic activity, which will help get this business out of crisis and out of debt. That's why. It should also be noted that in Poland this conversion has become possible – a positive European experience – has been possible since 1993, and we should certainly transfer this positive experience to the standard of current legislation of Ukraine. In addition, the aim of the bill is to resolve the issue of a new participant’s entry into the association, the participant who joins it without passing part of the other members of the association on the basis of an additional contribution and an increase in the statutory fund. This question is certainly a good, good signal for foreign investors, and it will allow them to become. will enable them to resolve the situation by becoming part of such association. So the Self-Help faction is the authors of this bill, and we support it on the basis. And we thank all the other co-authors. Please support him, we urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, we're starting our work with you pretty strangely. Today, tariffs have risen, and Minister Rosenko speaks of the need for villagers to give up gas. We need to figure out when we're buying the imported gas for $142, why are we selling the settlement for $300? We have to solve the issue of pension taxation at last, and we're starting with you starting to solve the question of limited liability societies, how to increase their statutory capital at the expense of third parties. Colleagues, believe me, there are more important bills! Let us work on what concerns people today. Some just cannot pay for the municipal tariffs that the government has raised today. It's the taxation of pensions, which we've been talking about for two years, and we're talking to you, society with limited liability. Of course, the laws that stand are necessary, but let us begin with what people are most concerned about today. The Fatherland faction will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u37	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Here national MPs refer to European legislation when it comes to the need to adopt the bill. And indeed, in most Western European countries, there are similar laws that allow debt to be swapped for a share in businesses. But, unfortunately, this bill in Western European legislation clearly prescribes all the relevant criteria, there is a clear principle of legal certainty, which is exactly what debts, which types of debt can be replaced by a share in the respective lady. Societies, yes, first. And secondly, clearly prescribed that this issue is voluntary, exclusively voluntary, so that legislation cannot be treated differently. Unfortunately, this is not the case, these moments are not in this bill, which allows and leaves a huge room for manipulation for our, in the paws, the most honest courts in the world. So I do encourage the authors to do second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, have all the factions already expressed themselves in this bill? Yes, I see all the factions have spoken. So we finished the discussion. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm asking members of all the factions of Parliament when you see your colleagues going out during the vote, putting them back in the room, exercising discipline, and showing solidarity. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, are you ready to vote? You're ready, aren't you? I'll bet. Yeah, everything's in place, it's true, yeah. So, colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to ensure the realization of the right to convert money requirements to society and to contribute to its statutory capital (register No. 2764). And I'm putting the committee's proposal on the basis of the bill. Dear colleagues who support 2764 as a basis, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:16:00]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be more disciplined because they simply left the hall during important votes. And now we're going to have a very important bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. On April 19, 2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole adopted the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of the ATO. This is number 4350. It was a decision that brought the whole room together, and we all voted in favour of it. And according to article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain positions of the law. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements have been made to all national deputies, and they are in everyone's hands. And this bill was supposed to be the first one. I was just afraid that there were no deputies in the hall -- and I didn't put him first. And if there's no objection in the room, this is the position of the Committee on Education, Spiowakovsky is ready to speak, but I think it's a question that unites the entire room. And if there is no objection, I will put to the vote a proposal to remove the disagreements in the text of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to education of persons whose place of residence is the territory of the ATO. Dear colleagues, 4350, no objection? Then I ask you to support all of us as a group so that we can remove these differences and get the law to work. So I am voting on the proposal to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of the ATO (number 4350). People's deputies of Ukraine are requested to vote. Please, colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[17:18:27]] For 243 143 for. Decision taken. Please show by factions, please, by factions. 243, decision taken. I welcome the committee that we have been able to resolve this disagreement. Next, according to the order of the day, we have Law 2043a. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on strengthening State control over the right to access public information, protecting personal data and addressing citizens. There is also a suggestion that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure is an offer from the author, please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, 2043a, summary procedure, please vote. [[17:19:50]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Radical Party, would you excuse me from the rostrum? From the place, okay, please. Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, in fact, were the authors of this bill by the people who in their time were the authors of the bill on access to public information. I'm going to remind you very briefly of the history of this document, because in fact, then we are journalists, initiators of the Stop Censorship movement. Then came representatives of the government of Azar to talk about the difficulties that journalists face. And we were able to reach an agreement at the time that we needed to open public authorities. And although many had doubts about the success of such an action, with the support of journalists, we were able to adopt one of the most democratic laws on access to public information in the world. And it's almost one and it's almost not the main law that the Yanukovich authorities then approved. In fact, this bill is designed to improve the provisions of the Public Information Act, to provide administrative protocols for punishment by folding. the administrative protocols for the failure to comply with this law, and also foresees the possibility for the body to oversee the observance of the law of the Authorized for Human Rights, to hire special persons and to have authorized persons to supervise this access. These standards are in the basic laws on access to public information in the Council of Europe. And they were actually drafted by a bill for the participation of such experts in the Council of Europe. I strongly urge you to support this bill in the first reading. For me, it would be very strange if we could not improve the law, which in its own time, the decision on the necessity of which even the government of Viktor Yanukovic had approved the opening of the system of public authorities. I'm sure this room should do everything possible, the hall after.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u41	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u42	I am convinced that there must be political will in this room in order to continue to ensure the transparency of the public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u43	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered draft Law No. 2043a, which proposes to extend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences against Military Servants and Other Persons Exploiting Disciplinary Statutes. An increase in the number of persons who have the right to assemble is the creation of protocols on administrative misdemeanours in the field of access to information and so forth. That's what my colleague Sumar just said. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that this project should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative. But the committee members, after examining the bill carefully, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading and the basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u45	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against the bill. Please record. Svetlana Petrovna's baton. Please turn on Mrs. Svetlani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u46	Mr. Chairman, my dear colleagues! I want to call for support for this bill as a basis. I want to remind you that the bill was drafted on the basis of recommendations for the Commissioner for Human Rights. We also worked with the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Public Information. At the same time, we developed it taking into account the Model Law on Freedom of Information of the International Organization, Article 19. Basically. This law certainly improves the mechanism of State control over the implementation of the relevant legislation. I want to remind you that this Supreme Council has done a lot to access public information. Last year we adopted the changes we made, improved 53 laws and 3 codes on access to public information. At the same time, there is a very low problem, and it is related to ignoring government officials ’ responses to requests for information to our Ukrainian citizens and journalists. It is this bill that provides for the improvement of the mechanism by which government officials will answer to the law for ignoring requests for information or for simply writing. And that's the last thing I'm gonna say. The GNEU actually made a whole series of comments, and we discussed it at the Peter Prashenko Block. I believe that between the first and the second readings we can correct these minor comments that the management has suggested. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to uphold the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u47	Please, Podlisecki, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u48	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u49	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u50	Before the Law on Access to Public Information was approved, officials were very often responsible to journalists: what should I give you? Now the landlords are just refusing to distribute, publish, publicize information that's important to society, they're simply not giving any answers and they're pretending that there was no request for access to public information. So this bill suggested that we double or increase the fines for such officials by two and a half times. Self-help will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can ask that the room be quieter because it is very difficult to discuss drafts. And now we have Sergey Vlasenko, please, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u52	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Colleagues, let's finally move from political slogans to practical and professional discussion of drafts. This bill is made up of three parts. Part one. We compare military personnel, more loyally, we impose the responsibility of military personnel for failing to provide information that belongs to public information. That is, if a section commander is asked to provide a list of military personnel and he will not provide it, there is a reason for him to apply the penalty. If he's asked where he spent his budget money, that's how many gymnasts he got, how many pickers he got, how many guns he got, and he won't answer, he'll be held accountable, that's the first part of the law. Part two of this law, they do not give the right to draft administrative protocols not only to the Authorized Person of Human Rights but also to persons under the authority of the Authorized Person of Human Rights. That is, the Authorized of Human Rights takes a loved one out of the street, gives him some unknown commission written or oral, by the way, unmarked, and he will come and demand some information. And for failure to provide information, it will be administrative responsibility. Part three of this law. It turns out that protocols can be sent by mail to the person at the address of his or her residence, if you will excuse him or her at the address of his or her work. Whether a person has received this protocol or not, or not, has received another unit where it works, but the responsibility is still coming, here's the law. So once again, I propose to stop the political talk about this. Maybe think, if you can, correct for the second reading, though I don't see how, though I don't see how. But let's stop political agitation and move on to professional deliberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u53	Thank you, you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed. There were different thoughts, but it is suggested that we accept them in the first reading, and we can make all the corrections to the second reading. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself and I'm betting. Please enter the Chamber and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on strengthening State control over the right to access public information, protecting personal data and turning citizens to 2043a as a basis, colleagues. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis, please. [[17:29:58]] For-166 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues! Then I'll ask you in the hall to support the proposal to the committee for further work. Will you support it or not? The subject of the legislative initiative for further development? Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the return of the subject of the legislative initiative for further work, are you ready? Thank you for understanding, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, please. And I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to draft Law 2043a. Dear colleagues, please vote for the subject of the legislative initiative. [[17:30:57]] For 181 Dear colleagues! There's one more proposal under the Rules, I'll put it on the committee for further work, and I'll put it to the vote. Dear colleagues! Let's support the authors, let's support the committee, and I'm proposing that the bill 2043a be returned to the committee for work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, now the committee, according to the Rules. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:31:36]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues! We have the next chapter, which goes in our agenda, which is the inclusion of drafts in the agenda, and there's a whole series of ambitious bills going on. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking you, especially the Petra Prashenko faction, not to leave the hall, because this is a huge number of IMF laws, laws that are necessary for the full functioning of the government. So I'm very much asking all the MPs to come into the hall and I'm addressing Lucenk Jury Vitaliovich's faction to maximize the mobilization of MPs. I said at the beginning of the session that a number of drafts had to be withdrawn by the government, and now they're being reintroduced. And it's important that we at least include them in the agenda now. These are a number of bills that are both of a social nature and those that we need to work with the IMF. But first of all, I want to point out that we have a bill that has been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The specificities of the President's consideration of draft laws as urgent are regulated by article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules. This is a bill (number 4469) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation. On the Conciliation Council of the Deputies faction, a number of factions demanded that the bill be immediately brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, a number of experts from public and public organizations have called on me as the Head of the Supreme Council to immediately sort out the situation in the prosecutor's office, which is beginning to pose a threat to Ukraine's national security. Therefore, under the Rules, I make the first proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and for the adoption of a decision on the draft Act (No. 4469) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation, 4469. Anyone who supports the proposal to include it in the agenda for consideration, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:34:38]] For 221 121 for. Dear fellows, I'll put you back once. I'll put it again, my dear fellows, I'll put it back on the agenda again, if there are no votes, we'll move on. I ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm once again making a proposal for introduction. to include in the agenda a draft Act 4469 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[17:35:39]] For 228 Decision taken. And I ask the MPs to support the proposal to consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, may I have your attention, we are now voting for inclusion in the agenda. The inclusion in the agenda does not require a return, so I put in the agenda twice, like all the other bills from which the factions do not come out. Just twice. Please don't press for the presidency, don't interfere with the full work of Parliament. Now. Include by factions, please include by factions. Now, dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the authors. [[th m in s a l i]] is proposed to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. It's a short-term procedure. Please. [[17:36:46]] For-198 Decision taken. And I invite you to the author's report on the Alekseiv bill. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to get out of the place. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u54	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Bill 4469 of ours, which we passed, deals primarily with the problems of the activities of the prosecutor's office as an authority rather than solving the problems of specific individuals. The draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation addresses six urgent problems without which the actual formation of the prosecutor's offices is impossible. Question one. The supervisory authority responsible for the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office shall be established by the General Inspectorate. His creation, I recall, was urged by former Deputy Attorney General David Sacrarelidze. And without it, we can't get rid of the corruption and abuse of the prosecutor's office in its present form. [[B in m in s a l in]] Question two. The bill opens the way to the public prosecutor’s offices, both the local prosecutor’s office and the general prosecutor’s office, for legal professionals without the experience of working in the prosecutor’s office. I would like to point out that as legislators, we are accused of not being updated by the staff of the local prosecutors even after the contests. Question three. The bill regulates the legislative coalition that we have since April 15, this year, when the investigations are to be referred to the State Bureau of Investigation. However, the State Bureau of Investigation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not yet been created and is in the process of forming. And we suggest that no more than two years of investigation be investigated by the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Question four, the bill is postponed until April 15, the following year, to become effective by prosecutorial self-government. Indeed, self - government can only work after quality human resources have been upgraded. This position is supported by our European partners and the United States. Finally, the fifth, resonant issue is the change in the qualifications requirements for candidates for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. We believe that a person with today's prosecutorial system will not provide for the reform that society expects. That is why we propose in article 40 that the qualifications of Ukraine’s Attorney General be changed so that a Ukrainian citizen can be appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u55	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention in the hall? I ask you to listen to me carefully. Attention! We're looking at Bill 4469, which has long been considered on the committee that's on the boards. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which is on the boards of all the national deputies. We're looking at an untranslated bill, stress it, and the same bill that was discussed on the Committee of Law, chaired by Andri Kozemyakin, the same bill that was considered, is on the site of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you not to push. The bill was handed out long ago, and all the national deputies were able to get to know it. The committee was reviewed. It's on everyone's website. And I ask you not to interfere with the report, as do MPs from Peter Prashenko's Block don't interfere with the consideration of other bills. And I'm asking the reporter, Alexeieva, to finish. And I ask everyone to listen carefully to the suggestions that the author of the bill has made. And I remind you, this is an author's bill, which was just the president defined as urgent. And I want to assure you that everyone will be given a word during the discussion, each one. You listen, please, and be careful. Please, Alexeyev, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u57	A Ukrainian citizen may be appointed as Attorney-General of Ukraine, who has a higher education and an internship in the field of law and experience in the legislative and/or law enforcement bodies for at least five years. Question six. It refers to a special investigation procedure, which is regulated by article 297 p.m. in the law in force. The criticism relates to the identification of the circle of persons and to the list of articles on which this procedure applies. We have a society waiting for us to be condemned and ripped apart. States for crimes committed during the Dignity Revolution for treason to the Fatherland and crimes against citizens and the State. We have studied the European experience and practice of the European Court of Human Rights and we support the formulation made by Nicholas Palamarczuk. I'll read it for the transcript: "Special trial is carried out with regard to the suspect, except a minor who is hidden for more than 6 months from the investigation and court authorities and/or who has actual data available that he is outside Ukraine in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, in the area of conducting an anti-terrorism operation." It is also necessary to introduce technical and legal remedies to articles 139, 297 with a 2, 294 badge bearing 4, 297 with a 4, 323 badge on the existence of actual data on the semi-annual presence of a suspect outside Ukraine and the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine in the ATO area. In addition, it is proposed to shorten the list of articles on which special investigation procedures are applied, excluding from article 297.1 of the Criminal Procedure Code 116, 118, 364.1, 368.3, 368.4 and 370. The special investigation standard is in force until January 1, 2017. The bill is recognized by the President as urgent. In view of the above, I ask for the support of the legislative initiative and the adoption of a law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Attorney General's Office and the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u58	Thank you. 10 seconds, but very briefly, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u59	Please support this Bill 4469 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u60	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kozemjakin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u61	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make some points in the consideration of this project. First, on 19.04 this year, the committee considered Bill No. 4469, which was introduced by the People's MP Alekseyev and Knazevich, and the bill was recognized as urgent by the President. 19.04. This year, the bill was considered and concluded by the committee, voted by a majority, and returned to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative for further processing, 19.04. 16 years of age. So today 10.05, unfortunately, colleagues re-registered a document under the same number. So in order not to go to the Attorney General's Office and to me personally, I would like to stress the following under the transcript. On April 19, 2016, the Committee considered 4469, and decided to work on it. Today there is a resolution signed by me personally in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council. This document, I confirm, I hope we're looking at it now. But unfortunately, we have a colossal, we have another document registered by today's number. So I'd like you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, to point us out this time. And secondly, the fact that there's really no document in the hall is very difficult for someone to have a professional legal discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u62	Thank you, Andre Anatolyovich. There will be a discussion. I confirm that we are considering the bill that was before your committee, which has long been on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which can be confirmed by the chairman of the committee, Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Colleagues, two for, two for against, we're talking about. Because I see the resonance is huge, but the need to make decisions is very important. Two for, two for against, please. Chicken Maxim, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u63	I ask you to pass the word to Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u65	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not about who will be the next Henprocuror. This bill on what the next Henprosecutor's office is going to be. Without the ability to bring in people who have not worked in this corrupt and cumbersome system, no one will have a chance of success. It introduces the possibility for such people to be admitted to the Regional and the Attorney General's Office at the legal level at the age of 2-3. Second, this law allows the creation of a disciplinary, general inspection that will clean up corrupt personnel and prosecutors. This law allows us to avoid collisions when, after April 15, the investigation, including the Mayan, is not legally legitimate because we were to transfer it to the nonexistent State Bureau of Investigation. This law also addresses a number of other important issues. That is why it is the same law, honourable Mr. Cosemiakin, that has passed through the committee of profile, and no one is currently considering any other law in the hall. I'm reporting the need for a clean procedure. And that's the law that passed the profile committee. I urge you not to vote because someone may or may not become a Henprosecutor. But we have to change the Henprosecutor's office and deprive her of the status of a post-Radians monster who can't live again. We have to break this situation by voting for this law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I was informed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine secretariat that few copies of this bill have been distributed on your electronic media since March 19th, March 21st, 500 copies have been distributed - April, April, April! On April 21, 500 copies were distributed to each national MP. So I ask just to be careful about the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, dear fellows, decisions must be made! That's what the leadership position is all about. It's not hiding, it's making decisions. And let's get on with it. I invite you to speak from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u67	Please give the word to colleague Vlasenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Honestly, I've already gotten the manipulation that happens every minute in this room. Now, I have in my hands the order of the day, where it is written, the 4469 draft of the Alekseiv People's Deputy is replaced by 10.05. 2016! I mean today! That is, there is no Law since April 19, since another text has been replaced today! That's the first one. Just a minute ago, this text appeared on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it says here, the draft law has been finalized on 10.05. This Regulation shall enter I don't know who Hottabich is and he can read bills that were published just a minute ago! One, we didn't pass the committee two. And I don't know what my colleague Alexei told us. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the substance is concerned. As much as you can do the propagandation. The Attorney General's Office is not a ministry, it's a special body in which professionalism is the main criterion. And not a person who has worked in some law enforcement or MPs can lead this body, but only a person who has a legal education. Period. This is a professional criterion that is laid down in this law and that we must abide by. By the way, let me remind you, the first time that parliamentary activity began to be replaced by legal activity. It was with such a man as Mr. Horoshkovsky, who was put in the High Council of Justice. And then he came up with this scheme, and then he came up with Andrew Volodymyrovich Portnov. I understand that some now work on Portnova every day wants to put it into the Ukrainian legislative field. Once again, we have no right today without the committee's conclusion, without the text of the law to consider this bill. There is no law from.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u71	The distinguished Chairman, the distinguished colleagues, the distinguished ones present, would like to say what is happening here. They now wish to reform the Public Prosecutor's Office in a so-called manner with a grave violation of the Rules. Here's Andrei Vladimirovic telling us the bill was on April 19th. I would like to support the previous speaker that, as at 2 p.m., there was no draft text on the Supreme Council website, only appeared a few minutes before the vote. Accordingly, there is also no result of the Committee's conclusion on the bill. Andrej Vladimirović, you told us when you joined the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that you would do everything you could to ensure that the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were not violated. I would now like to say that these votes are in violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to say that the faction of the Opposition Unit will be drafting the bill. Therefore, under the Rules, we are not allowed to adopt it as a whole, since the bill should not only go through a detailed discussion procedure but also a second reading procedure, as provided for by the rules of the Rules. Let us not violate the Rules and enact such fateful laws in violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in this room right now? According to the best traditions of Yanukovic, the Janukovich gang, which on January 16th in this room extended the laws without reading, violating the requirements of the Rules, now again, the so-called democratic majority. I'm talking to you, colleagues: Aren't you ashamed to do what you do? Aren't you ashamed to do what Yanukovich did? Did you forget what Janukovich finished? Did you forget the price we paid for Janukovitch doing "straight"? Why do you do the same shit? Who are you voting with? You want to run the D.A.'s office by hand, appoint the Attorney General to a person who has no legal education. Are you going to see a doctor who doesn't have a medical education? You'll go to the teacher, take your child, who doesn't know the initial education? You want the Attorney General to be the one who only follows President Dusty's political orders to get the MPs out of the room and plant them. By "no shit" dealing with business, look at the good people who vote! You're saying there's a democratic coalition in Parliament, show me this democratic coalition? I see a coalition of regionals with which customs are counted for being voted for by Groysman for being voted for by the government. I see a coalition of those who voted in favour of the dictatorships on January 16 and today you are the same: Moskalenko – you, Homutinnik – you, Geller – you, Bondar – you. You voted on January 16 with both hands for dictatorial laws, now to get the commercial flows, you are voting in a straight line for what Dusty tells you. You're destroying the country with your corruption, your irresponsibility, your sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u74	I shall continue to meet before the conclusion of the consideration of this matter under the Rules. Who else? No, there's been performances since Peter Dustenk's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, now for the line. We haven't had the words "will of the people," "rebirth." Who's speaking from Rebirth, Geller? Bondar? Please turn on Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u75	It's just amazing the cynicism of Oleg Lalashka, who sat behind me in the last Parliament on January 16th literally in the next row and saw in his eyes how I, Moskalenko and many of whom he called here, pulled cards on January 16th and didn't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, after that, the person who wanted to vote did not vote. And most importantly, on February 20, we came here to this room and we made decisions with you, after which Janukovic fled this country. And along with you, we made arrangements, and along with you, we stopped the war on this Maidan. And you should be ashamed today that you're lying to people out here. Stop it, Oleg, enough of the demagogies and populism you've turned into a political farce today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I will, of course, give the word of Oleg Lášku for a replication according to the Rules. But I have a great request to all the deputies in the hall, let's stop this whole language of hate for each other, society. We are making a decision, a decision that is essential today for the Ukrainian State. Let's move on to professional discussion and get the language of hate out of the discussion. It's 30 seconds, Oleg Lazko. People's Front, I see, one minute, please, Easy and the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u77	The whole country saw you vote. We're paying today for your vote, for your coalition "touch," for your membership in the Party of Regions, for helping Yanukovic build a dictatorship. Unfortunately, you didn't learn anything because the authorities have arranged with you, she's trading with you again, she's trading customs, she's borrowing puppies to keep voting. Because the main thing for you is money, you have the country's interests in the light bulb, you have the citizens' interests in the light bulb. You voted in favour of the government of Groysman, who raised the tariffs to 7,000 per thousand cubic metres of gas, and you still have the right to say something today. We're asking you, our Radical Party faction is blocking the parliamentary rostrum, we're demanding a reduction to the price of gas to 3,000 600, as was the price of a tax collector, and the creation of a commission of inquiry on corruption and on offshore power, including customs, which the authorities are handing over to you to cover these corruption ballots for decisions against Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u78	Please, from the People's Front. Yeah! And Geller, Rebirth, then Maxim Burbak. Please. Please turn on the Geller microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u79	50th District, Donetsk Region. I mean, the so-called "opposition" in the face of the Radical Party, when he talks about Customs and other things, I want to remind him of the fire trucks and everything. So you look at yourself first! I didn't call anyone's name, so you can't give the lines! Look at you at first, and then you'll stick with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are discussing a bill, not the personal qualities of any of the people in this room. I very much ask you to focus on professional discussion and I very much ask you to discuss the bill and make a decision on it. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please, Masim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you all to let our emotions down a little bit. Because an interesting situation is that we are now bribing all the coalitions in which we were all together, one family, and where the committees were distributed, and the responsibility was distributed. And now we see a broad opposition when regionals defend their opposition colleagues -- "The Fatherland." Something strange to me! Second, four prosecutors in two years. All the representatives of the system, all the honorable lawyers, all the professionals! Maybe we should give it a chance to eventually reform the system to other people who are ready for the real changes that need to be made. And that this whole noise that is now in defense of the existing system, you don't want to reform it. You want to help her cement and keep her intact. And most importantly, right now we're talking about the reform of the Henprocuratorium, and we need to anticipate the possibility of reviewing local competitions to replace local prosecutors, where no new ones have come.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over. And please, Lechchenko, one more minute. And I'd like the people's deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u83	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, about the professional discussion as it was said. First, when the bill was posted on the Supreme Council website, the bill, which is now proposed to vote, appeared almost 30 minutes ago on the site. In print, despite the requirements of the Rules, it was not given out. Therefore, as to whether we have the right to vote at all, we do not have the right to vote, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, about the contents of that bill, because I've got to look at what we've posted right now. Now there's a lot of talk about the Attorney General here, and in fact, here I think it's a secondary issue in this bill. Because the primary issue in this project is that it is proposed to allow for an in-country investigation into all Ukrainian citizens. For example, a guy went to the ATO, he's fighting, he's protecting the country, yeah, and some investigator somewhere in his mailbox left a message that he was somehow involved in a crime. And on this note, there's going to be a blind investigation of this guy. And then he comes home from ATO, and he's already being tried, he's going to be put in jail. That's why you're proposing to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u84	Thank you. And the closing act, Irina Heratchenka. And please prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that in fact there have been several general prosecutors in this time period, and that until today, the uninvestigated cases of Maidan bear the same full responsibility as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the first chance of uncovering these crimes has been lost by the first post-issue prosecutor. I was, for example, summoned to the D.A.'s office to testify about the horrors that took place on February 18th and 20th, just a year later. That's the question of our responsibility when we sent the well-deserved and public prosecutors there, and they blew it all. The system is not self-cleaned, so our responsibility is to give it a chance to clean up and help it so that we can look into the eyes, all the factions that are represented here, all the Ukrainians, so that the next ferocious family of Heaven's hundreds know the names of the buyers and murderers. And that's our responsibility today. So let us move on from mutual accusations to taking responsibility, making changes to the law that society is looking forward to today, and supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation. Who supports the proposal, the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do it if we can. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. If there's such a requirement, I see, let's, if we support the ad hoc procedure, if there's such a will, then I'll put it all together if there's room will. Let the room decide. I propose to consider the ad hoc bill of Law 4469. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'm considering an ad hoc procedure. Please vote on who supports this proposal. Please vote for special procedure, temporary deviation. Please vote, please. [[18:03:31]] For 223 There's no such thing. And that's why I'm laying the groundwork. I am voting on a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation (number 4469). Please, whoever supports this vote, please vote on the basis. Vote. [[18:04:08]] For 224 Society. I'll put it back once, like I always did. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet once on my return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich, please don't touch my microphone. I'm betting on a return to consideration of 4469. Those who support this procedure, please vote, 4469 – return to consideration, please vote. [[18:04:48]] For 221 The decision is not made. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're meeting in the hall tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
