ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please enter the Supreme Council Hall, prepare for registration. Please take your seats. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. We'll start our work. Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like a moment of your attention. Today, we will begin our meeting by honoring the memory of the dead. I'm asking for your attention. Today, we will begin our meeting to honor the memory of heroes. It was on that day that mass executions began on Maidan that innocent people were truly patriots who wanted to live in an independent state who wanted to be respected. Sadly, though, it was on this very day that the weapons of war that were handed down began to kill them, completely defenseless people. For another period of time, we could not even imagine what this could be like in our lives. But I think any tragedy needs to be remembered by everyone alive in order never to let them go again. And all those who have done so must be punished, condemned to the highest degree of punishment. Therefore, I ask you to honor the moment of silence for the memory of those who died in Maidan. [[A Minute of Silence]] Everlasting memory and glory of Heroes. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Your Honor. I just did. You know, it's probably a sign today that we're going to be considering Euro-Integration Laws in connection with the introduction of a visa-free regime. Dear colleagues, today may be historically so that on this very day when people have fought for their future, we have to consider the introduction of a visa-free regime. It's a question of freedom, it's a question of true European integration. This is what power has been against, and what Ukrainian society, including today, is seeking. So I sincerely expect that we will be able to pass these laws today. I urge everyone to find the strength to do so. In particular, I have just held a meeting in agreement with the leaders of all factions and groups of parliament. We've decided that we're starting Parliament's work on agenda issues, and we're going to be looking at a 16-hour visa-free regime, including at the request of our self-help colleagues, they're going to take part in this vote and support these laws. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to start a constructive work. I would like to stress that the situation is not simple, complex, but Parliament must find its strength to work effectively. Before we start the registration, I'd like to invite you to the floor, please, National MP Lapin. Igor Lapin, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! I invite all the participants, I stress, to approach this rostrum if they are in solidarity with us, in the sense that today all the Euro-integration laws that the speaker has just spoken are to be declared and voted. I understand that there must be extremely important party arrangements in our colleagues who are not present in the hall today, but everyone who was in Maidan, I invite you here to the rostrum, and I emphasize in our factions, and we are in different factions, we came here thanks to Maidan, and it was Euromanadean. And whoever is sabotaging these decisions today is a villain and traitor to Maidan. Dear colleagues, today's action begins, and this is a tragic story, it's tragic events in our country, but let's not forget what it is that young people and students have been looking at Europe, that's why Midan started. That's why Janukovich's regime, along with the thieves sitting at that end of the hall, passed laws that allowed us to be shot. Therefore, honourable deputies, I emphasize, we will not leave this room today until all the laws that stand in the order of the day on integration processes are voted upon. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u3	If anyone was in Maidan, he remembers that I had a T-shirt with Yanukovic, a dot on my forehead, and a sign that says "The Death Mafia." We were standing on Maidan for Ukraine. We stood in Maidan against those people who led us to the Russian Federation and against those who robbed the country for billions of dollars. But this Majdan is not finished. The Mafia isn't dead yet. Even the nearly $2 billion arrested in Ukraine have never been returned to the country’s state budget. And again, we're not leaving, we're not leaving this room today, until Act 4057 on the return of Janukovich's arrested funds to the state budget is voted on. I'll tell you again: this law is now extremely important, because this money is already earmarked for the financing of the army. And we're going to see who was on whose side of the Maidan, who was here now, or who was serving Janukovich's family, who were working against Ukraine at the time. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. I think that's a very good offer. The rest of it. definitively. finally vote in favour of these laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please activate the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:15:46.]] 312 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Since I was on the Conciliation Council, I informed you about the decisions that were made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national deputies, we have. Dear colleagues. Dear fellow national MPs, here's the deal. Your attention, please. We have a number of questions for inclusion in the agenda. Attention! Dear colleagues, namely, we have four. The three laws that we need to adopt, we need to include in the agenda for decision-making. That is, listen carefully, we have now agreed with all factions that we will all vote for inclusion and we will begin the process of discussing these laws. Your representatives were, too. Just listen to what we're talking about. The first is introduced by the President of Ukraine (4020) – "On military duty and military service". First. The second (4022) is "For a mandatory government pension insurance". 4024 is a citizen's tax journey, to deal with this issue properly in transport. Then we have here. It's for inclusion in the agenda, for decision-making. I'd like to support this proposal. Do you understand the support of these proposals? Retirement insurance, military service, and civil service are what everyone is saying about regulating this situation. Please, come on. I'm asking for a signal vote so we can see how many people there are in the room. Attention, colleagues! Please support everyone: inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. I'm asking everyone to vote, we've just discussed this. Take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. We will continue today to discuss further the issue of education, the Ukrainian Education Act, introduced by the committee for consideration. There's more MPs coming in. Please. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. Faction leaders, please! We vote for inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of the three laws. Please all support this proposal. Let's vote. The rating vote. Please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'll repeat my offer. Come on in, people's deputies. [[10:20:02]] For-183 183 votes we have in Parliament so far. Please, we're taking our seats. I see, I see. Suggestion: To include three laws in the agenda and start their consideration. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the MPs are here. Please make an offer. Dear colleagues, let's try again. The issue of the inclusion of three laws in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please ask all national deputies to take their seats. Please support everyone, regardless of factions, groups and parliament. Entry into the agenda, inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Military Service, Retirement and Payments Act. This applies to all cities of Ukraine, populated areas, where there is a service passage. Are you ready to vote, colleagues, day-to-day? Well, please, back up. All colleagues take your seats, please. Everyone, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. But each one of you will go to his own district, and you will be asked, which means, at the expense of the pay pass. What do we say that we did not vote for inclusion in the agenda? Or about retirement? Well, let's vote, please. Intruding in the day-to-day, please support all colleagues. Vote. Vote. Let's support it. [[10:25:24]] For 214 People's deputies are coming along. I see, I see. People's deputies are coming along. Let me read the laws again. Just think about it, colleagues. Military duty, military service, introduced by the President of Ukraine. 4022: "On a compulsory state pension insurance" for the assignment of pensions to persons with disabilities as a result of injuries, disability, injury or other health injuries suffered during the Dignity Revolution. Colleagues, and the third question is compensation for the tax passage. Please. Please, colleagues, the inclusion of these issues in the agenda for decision-making, three laws. Please support everyone. Please, let's vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:26:40]] For 225 Once again, dear fellows, there are voices. Let's do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I see, I see. Please vote. I see. That's all I can see. Please be supportive. We vote, colleagues, the day-to-day incorporation of three laws and the beginning of their consideration. [[10:27:04]] For 241 I thank you all, dear fellows, for this matter. Here we go, dear fellows. Colleagues, there's a statement by two factions. Replace? Two factions have been requested to replace it with a three - minute speech. Oleg Lazko, please. Pursuant to the Rules, the application provides the right to replace the suspension.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u5	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address the Ukrainians right now. That political crisis that we are all seeing today, Parliament's inability to make basic decisions, even now, you've all seen, the agenda needs to be voted on several times. This shows that we are standing on the threshold of great shocks today. Yesterday's statement by the Fatherland faction on the exit from the coalition, today's likely decisions by the Self-Help faction to continue in the coalition make Parliament ineffective. The absence of coalition, the absence of a government that uses support, the absence of a programme, a clear economic programme aimed at radically increasing the standard of living of people, the radical restoration of economic growth, the radical fight against corruption -- all of this pushes the country into the choices. I want to support him in one: the war against everyone is Putin's plan. When Ukrainians quarrel with each other, quarrels, strife, strife, and strife between them, we did so at the beginning of the 20th century when we lost the country. We went through this 10 years ago when the Orange Revolution was defeated. We're going through this again now that the Dignity Revolution is defeated. Today, two years after the Yanukovich gang started killing our people. Two years later, what did we come up with? Two words: Very embarrassing. It's a shame about the power that came after Maidan. Shameful of the unfulfilled expectations of the citizens. It's a shame about the absence of convicted murderers. It's a shame we can't find a common language. A radical party in opposition to power. But not in opposition to Ukraine. Not in opposition to Ukrainian history. Not in opposition to Ukrainian citizens. If those in power today are unable to find a common solution, unable to build a country, we propose a plan of action. We are ready to participate in the formation of a new coalition, in a new agenda, in the formation of a new government capable of bringing the country out of the abyss. We are ready to take responsibility for the fate of the country. Here's my hand to all who care for the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u6	Dear fellow national MPs, according to the decision you and I have made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Attention, colleagues! Thank you. We're working. Draft law. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service concerning the recruitment of Ukrainian citizens into military service. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. Please identify yourself. [[10:31:46]] For 190 The decision has been made. Please, the representative of President Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u7	Dear fellow MPs, I want to say two sentences of literally two years ago that Midan was organized not for the sake of politics, it was our people who did it, it was our people. And we must live today, not by politics, but by values, these are two simple words: God and Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to introduce, Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, to your attention the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the Invocation of Ukrainian citizens to term military service (registration No. 4020). The provisions of the bill are aimed at resolving the issue of the deadlines for the issuance of the Ukrainian Civil Service Application Order. The draft law of Ukraine proposes to strengthen, at a legislative level, the ability to quickly decide on the compilation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations as a special ingredient in the event of significant changes in the political and military environment of the State. The adoption of the bill will ensure timely preparations for the recruitment and release of military personnel who have served on established military service terms. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine to amend article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the recruitment of Ukrainian citizens to term military service (registration No. 4020) Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u9	Good morning, dear fellows! As the National Security and Defence Committee, we strongly welcome all the responsible deputies working in the session room today. We welcome the factions of coalitions that are now responsible for working and adopting extremely important laws for our state, security and defence laws. We welcome those who today mention the Maidan anniversary who liberated Ukraine from the tyranny of the previous regime. But unfortunately, Ukraine was then attacked by an enemy, and we are obliged to work today, not to engage in politics, not in press conferences, Facebooks, etc. This law is extremely simple, but it is extremely important. He's clarifying the legal coalitions that exist today, unfortunately, in that legislative base that hasn't changed for 25 years, and we're systematically changing it over the last year and a half as the Supreme Council of the Eighth. Indeed, the committee considered a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine with registration number 4020 to clarify the terms of the appointment. And the committee is proposing, by clarifying its wording, which I will now read under the transcript, it is now immediately accepted as a basis and as a whole. Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service suggests that the Committee should be drafted in the following edition, which reads as follows: "The conduct of the appeal(s) of Ukrainian citizens for term service is determined by the decree of the President of Ukraine. Such a decree is published in the media no later than one month before the end of the year, preceding the year of the appeal of Ukrainian citizens for term military service, except for the Ukrainian Civil Service (Invitation) Order for Term Military Service in a special period, which is published not later than one month before the beginning of the Ukrainian Civil Service (Invitation) Appeal.” Please support now by unanimous voting on the basis and in general. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u10	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Ivan Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u11	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, let's support the committee's drafting of the bill. In fact, the bill in general proposes that more rapid decision-making be established at the legislative level, and we vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. Are we ready to vote in favour of this law as a committee, what has just been announced under the transcript? Well, please take your seats, fellow citizens, national deputies. The committee, of course. Colleagues, in the committee's editorial, you've heard the speeches. Ready, fellows of honor? Please take your seats. Take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Proposal: Based and overall, the draft Law (Registration No. 4020), which takes into account the Committee's conclusion, is the Committee's version. Ready? Vote, Your Honor, please. Vote! Please take your seats. People's deputies, please! [[10:39:19]] For the 220. Not all deputies were there, I can see that. Colleagues, please be more careful! They're invited all the time. Please, take your seats. Let's, on the basis and in general, in the committee's version of the rating vote. There were 220 votes. The MPs are in their seats. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Vote! Please back up! Vote. [[10:40:16]] For 225 Yes! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, now very carefully! [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see it, I can see it! 226 is. Please, everyone, be very careful in general. Thank you. in total, 4020 in the committee's version, the 220-vote signal vote, that means we can -- 225 -- that we can vote. Vote? Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote! Please back up! [[10:40:56]] For 235 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. The first law today. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Law registration number 4022, national deputy Lucenko. There's an offer. The Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Retirement Insurance" concerning the people involved. the assignment of pensions to persons with disabilities as a result of injuries, disabilities, injuries, or other health injuries suffered during the Divinity Revolution. Colleagues, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. Please vote. [[10:41:52]] For-198 Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the bill is designed to provide social support to those who have suffered severe health injuries during the tragic events in Maidan. Today, it is on this very day that this is our responsibility and in the face of those who have given their lives and health for the new Ukraine. Please support this bill, which has a positive conclusion on the High Council's profile committee. I don't think it's necessary to say a lot of phobic words, monopolize a good thing, and I urge the Supreme Council to adopt, together with all the voices of all the factions, a law that is a small part of what we owe to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please report by Ludmila Denisov, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions and is generally supported. This bill empowers all of our brothers who stood on the Maidan if they are disabled, disabled, but without insurance, to receive the support of our State, who will be assigned this disability pension, whether they have insurance or not. They cannot work, they cannot provide for themselves and their family. So I'm asking you very much, this is a small number of people today, 25 people today, and tomorrow it could be 50, because they just don't know what to turn to, get support from the state. It's not big money. I think our respect and dignity will give us the opportunity to support this bill by all factions as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, colleagues, two to go, two to go. Please sign in. Mikola Trohimovich Fedoruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u17	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u18	Ostap Semiraq, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, today is indeed an important day, and we cannot fail to vote for this law that has been passed by our, hopefully, colleague and coalition partner. Too bad there aren't two other factions on this important day, and they don't support these laws. But to motivate why this law should be adopted, I would like to remind and inform, perhaps those who do not know, that it is a consistent policy, and this bill does not apply exclusively to today's event: the celebration of the anniversary. In fact, on the 40th day after the events in Maidan, back in 2014, the first post-revolution government adopted an appropriate decision that provided for the payment of permanent pensions to children and to the elderly who lost their foster parents. These payments have been made and have been made accordingly for two years. I'd like to urge the entire room to forget about their political insults that they're expecting. who think they've been given the last few days and in memory of those people who did what they could and gave the most valuable to vote on and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the Luzenka bill on strengthening the social protection of the affected Ukrainians who fought in Maidan against the Yanukovich gang, against the Yanukovic dictatorship for the European future of our country. For Ukraine without corruption, for Ukraine without abuse, for Ukraine without clans, for Ukraine without sales and cynical politicians who are hopelessly torn away from the people and from the problems that people live in. But I think it's social laws. These are certainly very important laws, but that's not enough, because the most important thing you need is people who've been standing on all the playgrounds all over the country -- they've been standing for justice, and unfortunately there's no justice today. There's no justice in the courts, there's no justice in the government, there's no justice in the prosecutor's office, there's no justice in the government, there's no justice in social policy, there's no pension policy. There's no justice for the young and the old, there's no justice for anyone who lives in this country if he doesn't have a hairy arm, mud, the prosecutor's dads. Murderers are still unpunished. So far, those who imitated the investigation of crimes have not been responsible for these simulations. I think the best thing that the Ukrainian Parliament would do today is that this tragic day for the sake of the memory of millions of Ukrainians, for the sake of thousands of people who have died, is to make at least a small staff decision. To vote today on the resignation of Attorney General Shokin, who applied. I demand it immediately to the House of Parliament, and to vote. Parliament must vote for the resignation of all those who rob people who pursue catastrophic anti-Ukrainian policies. That's what we have to do with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u22	Igor Lapin, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u23	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, there are no colleagues in the meeting room who spoke of being revolutionaries as well. I would like to point out that their political divisions are probably more important now. But my point is, this is a very important bill, and I'm asking you to support everyone. I have a guy in my unit who was fighting with one eye that he lost on Maidan, you know. And this is a very important law that helps people like him, for the sake of the people who brought us here, in this room. So I'm asking you to support this bill, despite the absence of the patriots, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I think we can get to the vote. Exchanged thoughts. Please, Your Honor, draft Law 4022. Adequate to the conclusion of the committee as a foundation and as a whole. I'm just asking everyone to prepare for the vote, take their seats. Can we vote on the basis as a whole? Please, we're taking our seats. Vote, Your Honor. 4022: Draft Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" on the assignment of pensions to persons with disabilities as a result of injury, disability, injury or other health injuries. the health damage suffered during participation in the Dignity Revolution, the People’s Deputy Lucenka. In line with the committee's decision, on the basis and in general. Ready? All right, everybody, please stand by. Vote. Vote. Please support everyone. [[10:51:20]] For 245 The law is passed, your honors. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Please continue: 4024 is a bill prepared by the Ukrainian national deputy, Oksana Prodan, on financing. on the financial provision of compensation for the indemnification of individual categories of citizens and other statutory benefits. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please. (None.) Please make up your mind and support the offer. [[10:52:20]] For-198 Please, the decision has been made. Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! We're now looking at a bill that's very easy and very complicated, but it's very and very much awaited in all cities, towns and villages right now. This is a bill that allows local government authorities to conclude contracts with carriers to compensate for the transfer of pension categories of citizens. This is a bill that solves the social conflict that you and I created when we voted on the budget. What happened and what now exists, what is real. The law gives people the right to travel in the underprivileged regime free of charge. These are 24 categories of citizens, first of all these are different. Different degrees of disability are pensioners who are legally entitled to drive for free. Some of them have a pension of 949 dollars. And this free trip is an opportunity for them to buy cheaper medicines somewhere, cheaper even food. Along with the fact that you and I voted on the budget, we didn't put any money in the budget to compensate for these tax transfers. And the local authorities today, the local authorities have no funds and have no opportunity to conclude contracts and compensate carriers for these costs. Of course, there is no money available in the budget. So in order to provide the benefits that people are entitled to right now, we're transforming the funds allocated in the grant budget into 35 billion dollars a year, we're redistributing 1.9 billion, and more specifically 1 million 917 thousand 833 dollars, we're redistributing it to compensate for the debt transfer. I'm asking all the factions, all the groups and non-fractional MPs to vote in favour of this bill, because today people are being thrown off routes, thrown off trolleybuses, because carriers have nothing to drive, but some.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u27	And some are 1.9 billion. Transporters can't drive one another, others don't want to drive for free. And it's their right or their responsibility. Our responsibility with you is to provide people with the opportunity to drive today. Yes, we will, God will give, even this year we will change the system and the benefits and the grants and the address aid. But now people need our decision. I'm asking you to support everyone. And thank you to the deputies and the Committee on Budgets who would propose to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, the Committee on Budget Affairs, Sergey Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u29	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the budget committee at its meeting has considered Law 4024, which regulates the financing of the tax travel and other legislative aids. We predict a subsidy, we restore it within last year's subsidy reduction. At the same time, I'd like to give a protocol order to the Ministry of Social Policy to create a working group so that you don't stop and work on the aid system, by setting out maybe priorities, it's, there, the Chernobyls, the participants in the fighting, the other categories, and we could still define this issue in this room. Unfortunately, for many years we have put the aid issue in a long drawer. We finally have to answer this question in this room, not just translate it into local budgets. This is not a solution to the translation into the local budgets of all outstanding issues. At the same time, I would like to point out that the bill requires technical and legal amendments, particularly with regard to the presentation of the text of the bill, the reference to appropriate additions to the law, the numbering of such additions and the specification of the name of the budget programme under code 311080, as well as the summary of the expenditure of the State budget as amended by Appendix 3 in view of the fact that the law on the financing of vocational and technical education has not yet been signed since 4 February 2016. As a result of the consideration, the committee adopted such a decision. Recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 4024 to accept as a basis and as a law in general, taking into account the proposals and changes made in the conclusions of the Supreme Council Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u31	Please pass the word Paul to Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u32	Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Actually, I'm glad that Mrs. Prodan points out that we haven't done anything and that allocating the money itself doesn't solve the fundamental problem. The monetization of all benefits is a requirement of Ukrainian society because it is unfair that the driver and the non-driver actually receive the same costs and compensation from the state budget. So you don't have to put anything in a long box. This year we need to develop and adopt, including with the participation of the relevant committee of profile, an appropriate law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Amazanov, national MP, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u35	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. I want to point out that the People's Front will support this bill in the first reading on the basis. We should clearly vote in favour of social bills by the entire Parliament now, because we all urge the entire people of Ukraine to vote, to raise social standards. But what do we see today in the Plenary Hall? We see that two factions are not in the room. It's those factions that seem to tell us on the air, but they shed tears that they should fight for social standards and that they cry, how we and the government oppress these people. We have to vote now, finish this law. And those people who aren't in the room right now, they have to take responsibility for it. Personally, every faction, every national MP who does not vote in favour of raising social standards, who at the same time criticises the government and says that Arsenius Yatsenuk or the government as a whole is unable to implement government programmes, is unable to agree with Parliament. All these people have to answer. I'm asking where Self-Help is now. They created a party Sabbath, we don't need it. We have to work in Parliament. This is a time of work, not a cold. So, dear fellows, in the first reading, we support as we vote on all other social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yuri Voropeyev. The People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Matvinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u38	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you know, when you listen carefully to some of the MPs and look at the drafts that are being passed, it seems to me that some MPs only read names. And then they draw conclusions by name and judge what the bill says in general. You know, this bill is another one of the things that needs to be done after the budget is successfully adopted -- what we've been saying is that we can't put anything on the local councils. Here's the bill, it's an attempt to warm up the collapses that the local councils have. There is no doubt that there is a need to address the issue of transport concessions. I think everyone, especially majors, really understands the situation where people who deserve what they really deserve, you know, they're like asking for a delivery, looking at a carrier driver who's planting them somewhere. And it's the natural fabric of this kind of person. There are also carriers whose budget bills do not compensate for their costs. They are also not a charitable organization to address these issues. It would seem that this bill will try to resolve this situation somehow. But let's take a closer look at what we're looking for and where we're looking for 1.9 billion bracelets that we're proposing to send to local authorities to solve this problem. These are the same local councils that have been subsidized in the form of compensation for electricity, natural gas, fuel services, supplies, water supply, rents. I mean, now that we're cornering waste disposal by driving people into the corner with these utility payments, we haven't fully figured out how the grant system is going to work. It's like a snowy coma, it's growing and growing. And I guarantee you that from the first number, once the electricity tariffs go up, this coma will be even bigger. Now we're taking it in to patch the hole right here. Basically for the idea that this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u39	Please, Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, indeed, we are now correcting the mistakes of an active government, just as we were with the schools. Today, I want to say, for example, that there is only the city of Uman, where I am the Mayor. 24,000 people have remained outside the law and have to pay 3.50 per pass. They're retired, they're children, they're disabled, they're ATO soldiers, and so on, they're other categories of extended population. And, indeed, we must accept this law. And I don't think it's going to be a big deal if we're going to take it right now, not on the first reading, but on the second reading, and on the whole right now, to give people who survive, drive and be members of society full. And I want to point out that today, unfortunately, the same situation has happened to mothers who raise their own children. We also need to pass such a law and adopt it soon. And the Rebirth Party will insist on that. Everyone, please accept this law. And Mr. Speaker, please place it immediately on the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Andrew Gordjeev, please, Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of law that these benefits are foreordained for us. But in the Budget Act we didn't foresee them, the government didn't give us any suggestions about predicting them for our tax categories of citizens. Today, I have signals from the district that carriers are literally arguing with these people who want to follow this dusty passage. That's not right. If we've taken somewhere, we've got something to give. Yes, of course it's about monetaryization, addressability and so on, it's a fashionable question today. But today in this room, we've calculated, on the basis of one district -- the area, friends! - 7 million dollars if we go to an address coinage. It's not real money for local budgets at all. So let's support this proposal, let's just let our people understand that they can go once a month or some other way or another in the expected order. But another question. The government has to put these grants in the proper order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Michaela Mainly, a minute, non-fractional. Please prepare for headship.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u44	Mikhailo Head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, I am one of the co-authors of this bill, as well as other freemen, we urge you to support it. After all, the decentralization reform that has been done wrong has today left local self - control alone with this problem. Because local budgets can't and can't finance a tax passage for a large number of population categories, first of all, they're pensioners, they're disabled, they're under-funded, they're veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army. I mean, that's why we just suggested that we give them that grant from the state budget, support local self-government and give them that money. For example, the city of Ternopil gives the cheapest fare to a trolleybus — bracelet 50 — and they give away from the state budget. from the local transport grant budget. But all of this is also very difficult to endure under such conditions. This is particularly true in the areas, especially in the local rural population. So I want to encourage you to support this bill, which is very important to the Ukrainian people to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u45	Please, Vasil Ammelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u46	The Radical Party faction supports this bill and will allow the local budgets to lift the social tension on this issue. But what I want to say, in turn, is that this is the second correction of the government's systemic error, which as well as the industry, today has been translated into the local budget, not counting it as it should today, in order for the system to function fully. The Radical Party will correct this error of government, but I'm paying attention once again to what the government should first count, and then just to put in the decision room the relevant bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy Rosenblatt is a minute, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to see those hot speeches and to rejoice that we are returning what we are taking. But I would like to ask Minister Rosenk today about the immediate introduction of the Social Assistance Act, which will fully reflect the situation that everyone needs today. Today, when we talk about the benefits and we don't know where they're going, it's going to be the same situation as we have with subsidies today, when Minister Zubko is already speaking and says that a billion dollars is not being used on assignment. That's why I'm just asking today. We're going to support today's, well, important thing, but right now, we're going to need a social policy bill on targeted social assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Anton Kisse, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill, which is proposed, must be supported, no doubt. However, I would like to draw attention to the following. The distribution of these funds, and how this is controlled, is a very large number of complaints about cross-calculations, and there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with service people. I think that this issue requires more comprehensive consideration. And I would very much like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers, a special minister, to deal with this problem soon, because it is the demand and desire of our voters, especially those concerned, who need specific assistance. I think that we will find support in the vote, and I would very much like to see the transport of our citizens in an integrated manner in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u51	Sergei Mishchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u52	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Of course, there will be no person in this room who would not support this bill. But I just want to explain to Ukrainian citizens and MPs who are not majors and they don't know what's going on in the districts, that most of the local authorities have made their own decisions, that only two pugs have the right to be in transit. And these costs are the cost of two men on this route alone. Because others lack funds. We have drafts in the Supreme Council, including mine, which, in fact, brings back those bills and the benefits that were denied in the 15th year, the 16th year budget. That's why we correct mistakes, but only partially. It's like a gym.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u53	Please, Vasile Nimchenko. The opposition block didn't take part in the discussion. Wait a minute. Oh, no! Involved. All right, one minute. Wait a minute. Then Vladimir Litwin. Yes, yes, please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, the Parliament of Ukraine. That we need to approach it in a complex way. We're making dot punches. Yes, the problem of carriers is that there is a problem. That's the same problem with the G.P.T.U. The same is true of the nutrition of pre-school institutions. That's the same problem in elementary school. The Constitution provides for the obligation of the State to finance these activities. Since we have absorbed these whole sections of the social security of citizens, including the elderly, the disabled, the Chernobyls, let's all say that we solve this problem in an integrated manner for the legislators, let's go to the committee. Look, we need to work out the budget. And don't be afraid of it. Let's do it. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Litwin. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u56	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Clearly, this decision must be made. But what I'm being warned about is this proposal that came out of the first reading and then continued to work. This means that there is a demonstration of the process of an inexhaustible burning love for the people, not a practical decision. Moreover, this does not solve the problem. This will, in some ways, dampen the indignation of the people talked about by the MPs who represent the majority districts. In addition, the honourable Head, the proposal to have the Cabinet of Ministers analyze the situation in connection with the adoption of the law that had been suspended, deferred or transferred to the local authorities of social programs. Because it's a coalition that leads to conflict and opposition. In order for society to have clear answers when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Bezbach, one minute. And we're done. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u58	Dear President, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! Of course, the law is necessary, but it is wrong. This is the result of nighttime budget receipts. There's no money in the local budget. We're taking something today and paying for nothing. We're talking about corruption. There's nothing you can do about it when you take people on the route, because the city doesn't pay for it. I'm asking you very much, let's do an address. Then specifically this money, 2 billion let's give people a pension. And then there will be no questions and there will be both routes and urban electric transport. Only then will we do the right thing for the people. So now we're just pushing them back into scandals and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the discussion has stopped. Please take your seats. Draft Law registration number 4024. If possible, a moment of your attention. So when the government introduced a package of laws accompanying the budget, it was written that free travel benefits could be compensated by local budgets. So there was a translation element from the state budget, but it was a government benefit, to local budgets, which was definitely unacceptable. In the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, you and I have deleted the phrase about what can be financed from the local budget. And that means that the issue needs to be settled at the state level, not at the level of communities, cities, villages and villages. Since this issue is not settled, the questions raised today by fellow national deputies that are indignant today are raised. The question is not settled; no one knows what to do with it. And this corresponding tension is happening at the community level, where there's transport after transport. So the State's obligation is to settle this issue. Instead of simply canceling the benefits, offer a mechanism that will protect those in need and address the financing of these benefits. And this question has nothing to do with decentralization -- I've heard it from this rostrum -- neither does it matter, nor does it matter, nor does it matter to decentralization. A beautiful city, the beautiful city of Ternopil, has been named, so please find out in the city council of Ternopol in the city’s head Sergio Nadal how financial decentralization works today. He'll tell you what is coming to the budget, what he can do to make this plan necessary for the city. And I'm asking you for a good idea of decentralization not to destroy for no reason. I'd like that very much. So now it's important to adopt this bill, now to resolve the problem that is, urgently, it's a quick help, I would say. And what the committee said, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, about what would then be my commission today to have the Social Policy Committee, the Ministry of Social Policy, together with the people's deputies, work their way out of the situation. But this does not require the adoption of laws, the adoption of the right system, and the approval of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have the whole legislative base for that. So please, your honors, I would like to ask the 4024 version of the committee, in a version of the committee with technical legal rights, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. And I'm also going to give a protocol today to adopt common solutions to the transfer aid situation. Is it accepted? Take your seats. This is the proposal I'm going to put to the vote. On the basis and generally with technical legal remedies according to the committee's conclusion, right? Vote, please. Vote. Freight transports. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:18:13]] For 245 The law's been passed. And according to Parliament's apparatus, form a protocol mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u60	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u61	There are sayings that this is the most effective parliament in the history of the country. Well, the right laws we're capable of adopting, which I'm all congratulating. Let's move on, dear fellows. There is another very important law. We're all talking about the possibility of two abuses in a country with land. There's nothing else, it's the most effective mechanism. This bill has been drafted by the People’s Deputy Kulinich. He is now ready for his second reading, and we need to approve of him today. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, your consideration is based on a re-reading bill amending Ukraine’s Land Trade Code (register number 2279). There were 58 rights to the bill. At a meeting of the Committee on February 19, 2016, the amendments to the second reading were discussed. According to the results, 29 are proposed to be rejected by the committee, and 29 are considered in full, in part, or editorially. In particular, as a result of the second reading of the bill, it was decided to take into account amendments to the transfer without auction of land to citizens for haystacking, gardening, cattle grazing, and creative workshops. Actually, it's all the discussional issues that were raised in the session room during the second reading of this bill. That's why the committee, in principle. All of these adjustments are taken into account. And I think the bill is ready to become law. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. I ask you, your honor, to support a very important anti-corruption bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, a table. 1-a, no notes, no corrections. 2nd. None. 3rd, Oksana Sold. None. Is there a note after the 2nd amendment? Yes. 2nd Amendment, People's Deputy Kornatsky. Partially counted. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u64	Can I talk to you for a second? My amendment referred to many parts of the bill. But first of all, the amendment to article 134 of the Earth Code, to its part two, and first of all paragraph 16. I strongly insist that this amendment be taken into account in full volume, not in part, as it was counted by the committee. Since paragraph 16 has been deleted, the entire common people will be deprived of the right to land free of charge for building houses, for gardening, for gardening, for farming, for private agriculture, including participants in the ATO. Everything's in the hands of an official, he wants to give free, he wants to give. She's going to the contest. It's basically a corrupt bill that works against the people, it's anti-national. So, as a minimum, please consider my amendment to paragraph 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u65	Please report, in effect, to Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u66	As far as the 2nd Mr. Kornatsky is concerned. Edit included partially. Article 134 leaves the possibility of renting land without auction for the placement of craftsmanship and for haystacks, gardening, and cattle. With regard to the abandonment of article 134, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Land Code for the transfer of land in general use to permanent use, no account is taken of. The committee. The logic of the committee that goes on the committee. Offers without auctions of land seem to be for the greening of general use areas, and then allows utilities to transfer these land to a sub-orendum. There is no problem for such enterprises to take this land for permanent use. And what's more, you don't have to pay three percent of the land's legal and monetary valuation, and you're only going to have to pay one percent of the land tax. With regard to leaving paragraph 26 with regard to the transfer of land in other cases defined by law, this rule cannot be taken into account, since no changes to the law can be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u67	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u68	Other laws may be amended. So these norms we think are corrupt. And in terms of basic motivation, it's a transfer for farming. I want to say that, in 2015, probably 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] of land were transferred without auctions to create farms. And the real farmer didn't come there. They were legitimate individuals, pseudo-farmers. And then these areas were processing the holdings. So that's exactly what the committee sees as the corruption component that we're cleaning up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u69	I have a question, can they get members, or more specifically, to participate in anti-terrorist operations without auctions? Give a clear answer so everyone understands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u70	With regard to ATO participants, it is now possible to get up to two hectares free of charge to run a private farm. So the logic of the committee is that we can't be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u71	Well, please comment, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u72	An ATO participant can receive this land without auctions on the basis of the creation of a private farm within two hectares of free privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, 2nd Amendment of Kornatsky. It's partially accounted for, but there are suggestions to put it on the stand. Please, colleagues, confirm the National MP Kornatsky. Identify yourself as part of the committee. [[11:25:36]] For-137 The required number of votes did not come in. Let's move on to the revisions, and this is the nuance we're still working on. Please, Oksana Sold 3 Amendments. Is there no objection? None. 4th, partially accounted for, Oksana Sold. There's no 4th? Mishchenko Sergei, 5th. Yes. Please, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, this applies to all the law. I agree with my colleague Kornatsky that we should look very carefully at the bills that we have adopted regarding workers. Not the workers, but the ATO. Because this bill, if it's adopted in that way, it contradicts what we've adopted before, that they should get this land. Because, yes, under the haystacks, they're going to get agriculture and they're going to get 10 hundred dollars under construction -- they're going to auction. So they can't implement what's happening in cities, first of all, not in villages, but in cities where no more than 10 hundred can be allocated to anything, they can't get it. So I asked very carefully that we don't have a good law now, that we should send it back to read again, or that these amendments have now been introduced, voted, including Kornatsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u75	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee concluded that participants in hostilities, like other citizens, could obtain land for the stated purposes without auction, free of charge, in accordance with article 121 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which is valid. There's no problem. Otherwise, there may be abuse by officials. These are now and the participants in the ATO because these corrupt elements are in legislation, and they don't get this land. And as we clean up these ingredients, they'll be able to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u77	Are you insisting on the amendment? The 5th amendment, insists Sergey Mishchenko, was rejected by the committee. [[11:28:05]] For 113 The decision's been made. More specifically, there was no support — 113 votes. 6th, the People's Deputy of Him. None. Seven o'clock, no. Eight o'clock, Lensky, no. Nine o'clock, Macola, no. 10th, Ednak Ostap. 10th Amendment. None. Yvchenko, partially accounted for, no. 12th, Yvchenko, overruled. Sobolen Sergey, partially accounted for. None. Sergey's gone, she's gone. 14th, no. 15th Amendment, Sobolev. None. People's MP Kutcher, Mikola Kutcher. 16th amendment counted in part. It doesn't, does it? No, it's not. 17th, Kulinich Oleg, accounted for. National deputy Heratchenko, 18th, does not insist. Declined. 19th, Heratchenka, don't insist. 20th, Sergey Sobolev, don't insist. 21st, Sergey Sobolev, don't insist. Twenty-two, no insistence. 23rd, National Deputy Nesterenko, does not insist. 24th doesn't insist on Vadim Yvchenko. 26th, partially counted, does not insist. 27th, 28th, don't insist. 29th, Yuri Lewchenko, does not insist. 30th, Kulinich, accounted for. Dmitrenko, edited, 31st. 33rd, partially accounted for, Oksana Prodan doesn't insist. 34th, Sold. 35th, Nesterenko, rejected, not insisting. 36th, Sold, doesn't insist. 37th, not necessarily. 38th, Sold, doesn't insist. 39th, Sold, doesn't insist. 40th, Hero Anton, doesn't insist. Partially counted. Let's move on. Counted. 45th, Oksana Prodan, don't insist. 46th, not necessarily. 47th, not necessarily. 48th, not necessarily. 49th National Deputy Nesterenko, does not insist. 50th, Sold, doesn't insist. 51st, not necessarily. 52th, 53rd, don't insist. 54th, 55th, 56th, don't insist. 58th, counted editorially. All of it. We've all gone through, we've gone through all the amendments under this law. Now, what's very important is now that we adopt this law so that we can take away any opportunity to corruptly allocate land, allocate land for, auction-free land, and prevent any abuse of it. So it might have to be written that such a land that would be given, for example, for the construction of housing, for example, for the participants of the Anti-Terrorism Operation, cannot be reprofiled at all. And so it's not possible not to leave the loopholes. And we have officials like that, if they see there's a loophole somewhere, they start climbing there. And we have to do this: You want the land, please get the auction, and please have the land. Sergei Mishchenko, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u78	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. Vladimir Borisovich, you are indeed right in that the bill, the two articles 134 and 121, conflict. Because an official on the spot can apply either 121 articles or 134 by auctioning among ATO participants. Because he's going to refer to 134th, and then the ATO soldiers are going to auction with each other. Do you understand? So I would think that we need to make changes, and that we can entrust the committee and the legal department with making changes to 121 articles of the Earth Code, that auctions relating to employees. ATO soldiers, not applicable or re-profiled. That's it. That's why with this kind of legal and technical adjustment, you can accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u79	Colleagues, I think you're absolutely hearing the offer. Let's write that there's no such order to allocate land to ATO participants under individual housing without re-profiling the land. Okay? And there will be no louses and no one will ever get out of this situation. Sergei Ruddick, one minute. Let's all go into the hall, take your seats. Because now, again. It's going to be a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u80	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila, Kamyanka, Cherkas region As the initiator of the ATO military security programme, the land plots and co-author of this bill, I'll just remind you that there were two of them: this bill and Bill number one, which came from us as an alternative, although it was essentially the same. The revision that has just been submitted is supported. So I'm asking you to make it impossible to practice 25 years ago when the land in the cities is sold hand in hand through bribes, and the costs are not coming into the city budgets, to support this in general, taking into account the remedies that Vladimir Borisovich Groysman made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Then in a version of the committee with the suggestions he made. The essence of the proposals that I have made, the final, as a result of the debate and comments of the deputies, with technical and legal rights in the Committee's version. Normal logic? And this will be a completely objective position. I'm asking everyone to prepare, colleagues. Let's put a dot in this possible abuse and we'll all support it. Please take your seats. In the second reading and the whole draft of Law 2279, in the second reading and in general in accordance with the committee's decision, and with the suggestions that I made under the transcript following the discussions and proposals of the national deputies, with technical and legal remedies. Is it accepted? Let's do it in the second reading as a whole. Please all support this law. Vote. It is a law that will not allow the abuse of the earth. Vote please, colleagues. Let's support him, let's vote. Vote. [[11:35:50.]] For 228 Great! 228, the law's been passed. Please give me a minute, Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u82	I would like to thank you, first of all, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, for the opportunity to vote on an anti-corruption bill today in the session room. I want to thank you, my dear colleagues, you, because today we really started. By this vote, we demonstrated to society that we really started fighting land corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and one more. This is a very good and right step. And one more thing. We have two more laws to consider, I think, next plenary week. This is the issue of delegating land to the full jurisdiction of the united communities (3510 and 3510-1). I also ask everyone to prepare for his consideration so that we can vote in the near future, the sessional ones, I mean, the plenary ones. Let's move on, dear fellows. Oleg Kulinich was. Yes, we have questions, colleagues, the development of education and science. But there is an offer before that. Listen very carefully, and I ask everyone to remain in their seats. Yesterday we discussed a number of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! They're discussed. Everybody take your seats. Please, colleagues, pay attention! Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The committee project was handed over on 16.02. He was discussed at the plenary meeting yesterday. The committee responsible is in foreign affairs. And the next order is 4071: the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of Foreign States, Parliamentary Assemblys and International Organizations in connection with the threats to the lives of hostages held by Russian militants in the territories of individual areas of Donetsk and Luhansk. National Deputy Irina Heratchenko. You discussed it yesterday, too. So I would now like to unanimously support these two important decisions. Please come into the hall. They were yesterday, they were discussed yesterday. Full discussion, everything discussed, everything. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Ready? And so, Project Decision 4042. 4042 – on the basis and in general. I just said their names. You discussed them yesterday. Vote? 4042 as a whole, please, draft decree. Vote, everyone, please, colleagues. Vote. Vote, everyone, please. [[11:39:15]] For 236 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor. Project Order 4071. Please vote in general: 4071. The factions? Please, Peter Poshenko Block 11, People's Front 64, Opoblok 0, Self-help. (We know "self-help" doesn't need to be here, we don't need to talk about it, because they have a big move now.) The Radical Party is 14, "The Fatherland" is 0, "The Rebirth Party" is 6, "The Will of the People" is 10, and 31 are non-fractional national MPs. 4071, another Order, colleagues, to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states for hostages. Colleagues, we discussed everything yesterday, I remind you again. Please be supportive. In total, 4071, in total. Vote. Voting, supporting. In general. Vote please, colleagues, please. In general. [[11:40:26]] For 239. It's a decision, Your Honor. We have a draft of Law 3062 (second reading) – amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property (second reading). It's an economic committee, Andrew Ivanchuk. Ivanchuk. In the second reading and in general. That's in the second reading, 3062. Please report. And be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, especially thanks to those in the Hall today, because this law is very important to the country. I'd say one of the few laws that we've adopted in the last year. The bill proposes to amend the master code of Ukraine, Ukraine’s laws on the administration of public property, local self - government, accounting, and financial reporting, and information. 170 amendments have been made, 140 of which are fully included. We've worked on this for a long time with all the deputies, with all the factions, groups, non-fractional people's deputies, with the Ministry of Economics, with Kabmin, and, in my opinion, we've managed to make a very nice, quality document. And so the Economic Policy Committee is asking all the national MPs of all factions, groups, non-fractionals to support this legislative initiative and to accept it as an editorial committee, this is the right column of the table, as a whole in the second reading. And let's go to the repairs, Volodymyr Borisovich. Lilia Mikhailovna, don't distract the head of Parliament from an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u85	Andry Volodymyrovich, it was you when I made you notice that you weren't in your sector, yes, it was revenge?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u86	Yeah, let's do some repairs. If there's one of the authors, that's where I said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u87	Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm going to give you the Rules, it says we're going after the amendments. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u88	But I said 170 was amended, 140 is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u89	Okay. Colleagues, let's move on. I think we'll get through them very quickly. Yes, colleagues, we're working. 1 amendment. If I call the amendment number, the number, be careful, and please raise your hand, I will give my word if necessary. 2 revisions. 3 revisions. The 4th of Belkova. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th, 16th, 17th. 19th. Yes, it's counted. I'll tell you what's not counted. 30 repairs, 31st, 32nd. Counted. Counted. 38 Amendment, People's Deputy Guljav. Is there no objection? Don't insist. 39th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 44th, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, 44 amendments, we introduced a new article. But I would like to inform you, national deputies, that for the last two days we have been preparing a table in the hall with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, we have discovered such a gap in the law. Throughout the law on second reading, we were amended to distribute the bill to municipal property. And we were really just so tired that we missed one article. And now I would like to add it to the 44th amendment to read it under the transcript so that I can, I have the opportunity to include it in the body of the law. Article 87.2. "Significant Economic Commitments of the Municipal Unitary Enterprise." A significant economic obligation of a municipal unit company is recognized as an economic obligation made by a utility company if the market value of assets, jobs, services that are its object amounts to 10 percent or more of the value of a utility’s assets, according to the latest annual financial report. Additional criteria may be laid down in the statute of the municipal enterprise to place an economic commitment on a significant farm liability. A significant economic commitment is subject to acceptance by the Supervisory Board of the Municipal Unitary Enterprise or in cases provided for by law, by an authority whose administration relates to a municipal unitary enterprise in the order provided for in this article. Second item. The decision to grant a substantial economic commitment is made if the market value of the property, employment, or services it provides is between 10 percent and 25 percent of the value of the utility’s assets. According to the latest annual financial report, a supervisory board is accepted in the case of its establishment or body, the area of which is owned by a municipal unit company. The third point. The decision to grant a substantial economic commitment, if the market value of the property, work or services it provides is more than 25 per cent of the value of the assets of the municipal unit company according to the latest annual financial report, is taken by an authority whose management is a municipal unit company. Point four. It is prohibited to share the subject of an agricultural obligation with a view to avoiding the provision of this article in order to make decisions regarding a significant economic obligation. Paragraph 5 — What Is the Bible’s A significant economic commitment made by a breach of the order provided for in part one, fourth of this article may be declared invalid by a court for a lawsuit against a municipal unit company or body whose administration belongs to a municipal unit company. And the last point. A decision to give consent to a significant economic obligation of interest is to be made according to the rules set out in this article. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich, don't mess with the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u91	Andrew Volodymyrovich, this isn't a committee meeting that you're upset about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u92	Take the lead on the committee, Comrade Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, please. I see the national MP, Voropeyev. What's the correction? A lot? One minute, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, let us pay attention to what is happening in this room. We are invited to vote on the law prepared for the second reading before the Committee. After that, the table was amended to read four minutes. Don't you think that's funny and wrong from the point of view of the Rules? But be good, you will discuss all these motions with you on the committee and make decisions there, and only then do you enter the room. How can you read five letters after the committee? This is an absolute disregard for the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u96	First, Yuri Mikolaiovich, the Supreme Council can do anything. That's the first one. And secondly, I apologized to Parliament for making a failure. And I said that, thanks to the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, when preparing this bill, our administration, which was designed to do so, indicated that you and I had missed that standard on the committee. And the law is not going to be perfect, and we're going to have to introduce a new bill on change and complement. I apologized to the hall, read the article, and the Supreme Council can support it. Because we want the law to be quality, and that's what all those who vote for it want.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, we're going after the repairs. I'd like to take that into account. We're still going. 49th, Belkova. Don't insist. 50th, Chewchenko. Don't insist. 51st, 52nd. Don't insist. 53rd. Don't insist. 54th. Don't insist. 55th. Don't insist. 56th. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 60th. Don't insist. 61st, 64th. Do Not Urge 65th, 66th, 67th. Don't insist. I'll tell you what, 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. 70th. Don't insist. 71st, 72nd, 73rd. 74th, Ivanchuk. 75th, Chewchenko. 76th, Bird. 77th, Bilkova. 78th, Birddog, 79th, Bird. It's the '80s. Don't insist. 81st, Denisenko. Do Not Urge 82nd, Chevchenko, 83rd, Chevchenko. Don't insist. 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90s. 91st. Don't insist. 92nd. Don't insist. 93rd, Ivanchuk. Don't insist. 94th. Don't insist. 95th. Counted. 96th. Counted. 97th. Counted. 98th. Don't insist. 99th. Don't insist. 100, 101. Don't insist. 102. Counted. 103. Don't insist. 104. Counted. 105. Don't insist. 106. 107. Don't insist. 108. Come on in, all of you, your honors. We're about to vote. 109, 110, 111. 112, 113, 114, 115. Don't insist. 116th Amendment, 117th, 118th, 119th. 120, 121. Don't insist. Everyone else is accounted for. 138th, Walking. Don't insist. 139th. Don't insist. 140th. Don't insist. Here we go. 143rd. Don't insist. Here we go. 146th. Don't insist. 147th. Don't insist. 149th. Don't insist. 150th. Don't insist. Then they're all accounted for. The 151st. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already passed. Be careful, please. 151th, please. Victoria the Bird. Be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, can you please explain the meaning of the amendment you read from your voice? Because you know that the text you read on the page, it's not taken out of the voice in the room, actually. We didn't look at it on the committee, and the committee members don't even have it in front of them. Can you explain the essence of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u99	Thank you. Please ask the MPs questions about the amendment on which the question has been asked. Which is announced for consideration. Let's move on. In the end, a hundred percent. 165th. Don't insist. 168th. Don't insist. 160. All of it. We've been getting all the repairs. The committee has worked hard, and most of the amendments have been taken into account. An amendment to this law has been read just after the legal administration has been filed. It is absolutely. She's totally famous. Please conclude, Andrew Ivanchuk. I ask all deputies to take their seats, to vote, and then to be declared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say one last thing. This bill, dear friends, is a real struggle against corruption in state utility property. This is a real reform. I'm asking everyone to support this bill, please. But to keep it from falling, Vladimir Borisovich, please put out a signal vote first so that we can see if there's any support in the room today. Because, I can see that a lot of the MPs who support this bill, who told me about it, are somehow not at work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? Please, we're taking our seats. Please, we're taking our seats. In the second reading, and in general, as amended by technical law, including the amendments that were made to the head of the committee under the transcript. Signal vote. Are all ready to vote, colleagues? The right anti-corruption law, we need to support it. Please, colleagues, take your seats, national deputies! Please take your seats. The signal, in the second and in general, with technical legal rights, proposals announced under the transcript by Andri Ivanchuk, in line with the conclusion of the committee. Ready? It'll be a signal, but I'm asking you to back everyone up. Please come in, people's deputies. We're about to vote. The noble national deputies of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please take your seats and vote. Draft Law 3062 in second reading and in general according to technical law, taking into account the conclusions of the committee and the changes announced under the transcript by the head of the committee, Ivanchuk. Ready? Vote! It's a signal vote. Please vote, please support. Please support, we vote. [[11:59:19]] For 202 Well, 202 votes. I don't think there's any point in putting another vote. 20 votes. We can't support it. Vote again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Andrew Volodymyrovich, offer. National MP Voropeyev, one minute. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, this morning we all wanted to support this law. On the committee, we unanimously supported him. He was in good shape. But when five letters are read to you from your voice. Where did these things go? What articles? What was the outcome? Why are we in a hurry? Let's go back to the committee and let him look at those orders and make a decision, and we'll consider it again. At least in two days we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, let us once again advise whether we can vote on this bill. There was a signal vote, there were 200 votes. Of course it is. If except for this amendment. Ivanchuk. Wait a minute, Ivanchuk. Attention, everyone! Stay where you are, honourable deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! In fact, I just read another article -78.2. I showed it to the committee, Yuri Mikolaiovich took it away. I realize that it is wrong to read an article from the voice. And if it requires a room, I'm willing to remove the article and not include it in the body of the law, but today we're going to register a bill for changes and additions, and we're going to do it all together in a normal order. If it's Parliament's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u105	Well, let's do it, dear fellows. We're voting on the committee. We vote in the committee's version according to the committee's decision on the basis and in general. Next, please identify the mechanism for amending the law. Is it accepted? We're taking all our seats, please. Proposal 3062 in second reading and in general according to the conclusion of the Committee on Technical Legal Rights. Ready? Let's do it again. I'm asking you to back me up. I'm voting. Please be supportive. [[12:02:13]] For 225 225, I think there are voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, I see. Listen, when we find a solution and there's 225, that means we can vote. When there's 200, it's not real. But 225 is normal. Vote? In the second reading and in general, according to the conclusion of the committee. Vote? Vote, please support, vote. With technical law, according to the committee's decision. In the second reading and in general. [[12:02:51]] For 251 251 votes. All voted. Thank you, Your Honor. The law's been passed. And on this note. I want to say that Parliament is effective, it is true. And thank you, colleagues, for the design. And what I'm saying is that after the break, we're going to start looking at the Education Act. I ask everyone to come and consider this law. At 12.30 p.m., we're working. I'm calling a break, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that our work is about to begin. Please wait, everyone, come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions, I ask to invite members of the House. Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. We have the next very important law of the day, which is (first reading) Law 3491, this is the draft Education Act. And I very much ask my fellow MPs now to support his proposal for a reduced procedure. This is a proposal from the committee head. I very much ask the deputies to take up jobs and to support this proposal. Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? I can. Please. Please support the proposal to consider Bill 3491 as a simplified procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:48:36]] For the 110. I see not all deputies have arrived. Colleagues, we have an extremely responsible day today, we have laws on visa liberalisation, responsible laws. And they're standing on a day where we especially have to feel responsible for allowing Ukrainians to feel free in the free world so that they can drive without a car. I'm asking you to concentrate so that we can work productively again, as it was before the break. I'm asking you to come into the hall, who's not in the hall right now. I ask everyone, regardless of the factions, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please take up your jobs! Support Lilia Greenevich. This law has long, very systematic preparation. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, call your colleagues' factions in the hall. The MPs are coming in, please. Can I put it to the vote again? If there are no votes, I will do it in full procedure, but it would be appropriate for us to adopt more laws. So, colleagues, please come in. Yes, MPs are coming in. And I would like to support Lilia Greenevich's proposal to consider this bill of the Education Act (3491) under a reduced procedure. Colleagues, let's vote for everyone, regardless of factions. Please consider the simplified procedure. Vote. Can I have your back, please? [[12:50:44]] For-143 A few people are missing. Please come into the hall. Society, a few deputies. Call whoever's in the towers, have them come into the hall. Don't leave the hall. Please have a few more deputies for a positive vote. The MPs are good. Colleagues, let's concentrate. Please support Lilia Greenevich again, support education, 3491. The Committee is requested to review the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support. Please vote. Please vote on the summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:51:53]] For-153 Thank you. I invite the Ministry of Education, the First Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Sosun Innu Romanovna, to report first. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u107	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. A bill on education (number 3491) is proposed for your attention. Education is the foundation of intellectual, spiritual, physical, and cultural development, its successful socialization and economic well - being. In all civilized countries, education is recognised as a priority for socio-economic, spiritual and cultural development in society. And most importantly, education is the strategic resource of any state. The bill presented to you is a basic, framework bill on education, which is systematically complemented by the Higher Education Act currently in force, and will be supplemented by new laws on vocational education, which have already been introduced to the Supreme Council, pre-school, extra-school and general education. What, then, should the new Education Law give? What is lacking in the education system today? First of all, it is necessary to ensure freedom in the education system, freedom for educational institutions through their autonomy, including personnel and financial freedom, freedom for educators, teachers, academic freedom, academic mobility, freedom of creativity, space for initiative, etc. No rule of new laws should limit initiative and creativity in the education system. The second important task before the reform of the education system is to establish a person as the highest value in accordance with the spirit of our Constitution. Such a person’s vision should apply to all participants in the educational process, both educational and educational professionals, teachers, teachers, and so forth. The third challenge that we face in the context of the new Education Act is to create conditions for the development of competition in education and the equality of educational institutions in all forms of ownership. I'm sure the bill contains a lot of innovative proposals, new ideas, including the introduction of a 12-year-old school, the extension of the functions of academic integrity oversight, the creation of opportunities to increase the cost of teaching, which will be subject to additional certification, independent certification. The bill contains completely new articles on qualifications, on framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u108	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u109	and the level of the national qualifications framework. The bill foresees a reduction in the regulatory function of the State in the context of the transition to the autonomy of educational institutions, as well as a redistribution of governance functions between government authorities and local self-government bodies at different levels. On January 27, the Committee on Science and Education considered a bill proposed by the government and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council send it to the Committee for further reading. We suggest we support the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u110	Please finish. Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u111	To support the committee's position in order to improve the bill over a short period of time and continue to work on its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailnovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we are considering a bill that concerns millions of Ukrainians, the Education Act. And this is a basic law that has to define a strategy for the development of Ukrainian education in the next 20 years. Thus, this law is subject to extensive discussion by various interested groups. As a result, parliamentary hearings were also held in connection with the bill. We can see that the Cabinet of Ministers has drafted this bill, but not in all parts that need to be filled with the gaps of this bill. We need to reinforce a whole range of norms in this bill and even include some new articles on the real launch of education reform. For example, in part of a 12-year-old education, we have to show in the bill what's different about a 12-year-old school. Because it's not our goal to put our children in school for another year. This school should be a school of new quality with new meaning, with the new skills needed for our children. The bill also has to provide answers to the relationship between education and the labour market. The bill has to answer how we raise the social status of teachers. So our proposal is to send this bill to the Committee on Education and Science for re-reading. There we will be able to further refine it and take it back to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Respectful colleagues are evidently in need of discussion, and the law is important and complex. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Please record. Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u115	Please pass the word Curilo, "Peter Prashenko's Block"
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Ministry of Education and Government passed the Education Act, the basic law in the Hall, is very good. Although it was necessary to start not with the Law, perhaps with higher education, it was necessary to start reforms under this basic law. But what is already this law is a very positive phenomenon. At the same time, I would like to point out that we cannot agree with some of the concepts laid down in this law. In my opinion, it's still necessary to put children and children at the top of the agenda, and it's the foundation of all education policy. Next, I wouldn't be asking the whole question of competition among educational institutions. I don't think there can be competition in general secondary education among schools. Because they all have to be the same, they all have to be equally financed by the state, they all have to have the same quality, one textbook. Then we can talk about the availability of education. But at the same time, I think that the community, the education community, is working hard enough on this law, and the committee will be able to complete this law in the shortest possible time, make changes and bring it into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u117	Fedoruk, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u118	Please give the word to the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u119	Thank you. I'm talking to my colleagues about the fact that the People's Front faction will support our colleague, the head of Mrs. Lilia Grinevich's profile committee, that this bill should be returned to the committee for further development, reworked, added with new articles, and brought into the session hall by now. But I want to point out to all of our colleagues who are working in the plenary on this responsible day, and we see that we are also adopting laws and social benefits to the relatives of the victims who died during the Dignity Revolution, and we are adopting these necessary bills that bring the benefits back to utility. to the local budgets. I mean, there are effective decisions, and yet I don't see our colleagues from Self-Help and Parenthood who should be working with us today and making such necessary bills that will introduce a visa-free regime for our citizens. I am sure that any political action taken during plenary work in Parliament is an irresponsible policy of political demagogues and politicians. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u120	Melniczuk Sergei gives the word of Volodymyr Litvin. Please go to the rostrum, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very important law that will determine, as it was said, the fate of the future country 20 years in advance. But it is surprising that we are looking at him in a hurry. Obviously, that will be the result. First of all, there is a strong distrust of the laws that we have adopted in terms of reforming the education and science system, because the laws that we have adopted are not working. Second, this law, in fact, is a revision of the Constitution of Ukraine, which cannot be allowed. Third. When you look at the status of the Ukrainian language, one line is written down on how to teach in regional languages, how to study a foreign language. We can only have one result: we have diplomas in Ukrainian, everything else is not in Ukrainian. Next question. That the Education Act is more likely to still be the law governing education. And the question is, why do we need an education ombudsman when we already have every category of the population? You have to -- from pensioners' rights, from young people, and so on, they're just extra extra extra structures. The problem of financing, once again a beautiful offer: 7 percent of GDP, but it will not be implemented. If we adopt this law, we have to make sure that it becomes effective under a funding condition of not less than 7 percent, otherwise this queue will be a campaign. The transition to a 12-year education system needs to be clearly defined as what will be the new quality. Finally, as far as the latter is concerned, this law does not really involve attempts and proposals to reform local governments. And I think it's a long way to go here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u122	Matvienkov Sergei, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Nasalika, Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u124	Praise Jesus Christ, fellow believers! I want to sign every word Vladimir Mikhailovich said, and I want to support him in this, just like Vitalia Semenovich smoked. But I would like to stop more, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said about this, about a secondary school that is a delegated function in local self-government. Today, I am addressing both Lilia Mikhailovna and Inna Romanovna, delegated powers are provided only in terms of wages and energy supply. We've even taken off the 1-4 classes by adopting our budget. You want to ask the question sooner or later: do you think it's the duty of your parents to finance the education that is delegated to local governments? It's a disgraceful thing in our country, and we have to make some sort of decision about it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Deputy Berez. Borislav Bereza, turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to this. I have a lot of communication with the students, and they can't understand a 12-year-old system. They say it will destroy the Ukrainian education system at all because they see no reason to introduce it in Ukraine. This is the first time. Secondly, no specialist in education can now give, in fact, any justification why Ukraine is 12 years old. And the last. We've already partially destroyed the factory system, we're killing this system. I ask you to be very careful not to destroy education in Ukraine at all. Because if we don't have people who will have a good education, who will come to us with a change, who will represent Ukraine in general? If people do not have a good education, they do not have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded our discussion of the bill. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Who hasn't spoken? Well, please, let's talk about Kisse. "The Opposition Block" already had a word, they've already spoken, sorry. Kisse, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u128	Respectable colleagues are certainly a very important law that needs to be passed. But surely we must accept what our colleagues have said: it requires serious refinement. And I won't be taking much time because a lot of important, necessary proposals have been said that need to be adopted. But I would like to address the committee, Mrs. Greenevich, so that, when you consider it, there will be an additional meeting to invite representatives of national minorities. We must clearly define the right to study native languages in places of compact residence of certain nationalities. We must clearly remember that the European Charter of Regional Languages, the languages of national minorities, has been ratified here. I ask that this be addressed specifically with the participation of specific representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u129	Thank you very much. All the factions came out. Yes, all their thoughts have been expressed. Colleagues, let's go to the vote. I very much ask my fellow MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs. First, I'm going to put a signal vote in favour of our good parliamentary tradition. But I ask everyone to pay attention and take part in the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Education Act in the first reading (3491). Please be supportive. Please vote. Education Act, signal vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:08:50]] For-100 Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a committee proposal that is compatible with you. I'm just putting this on the bill of lading. Ms. Lilia, repeat your offer to the stenographer so the MPs don't get lost or lost. Please, Lilia Greenevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u130	The committee's proposal is to send this bill to the Committee on Education and Science for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, to be clear. This is a committee proposal I'm putting to the vote. Don't get confused. A proposal just made by Lilia Greenevich, which she sounded from the stenographer’s stand. I'm putting her to a vote. Please vote. Colleagues, don't go out, don't go out, vote, please! Therefore, who supports the proposal of the Committee on the Education Law (3491), please vote. Signal the vote. Please vote. [[13:10:17]] For 203 Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and call the factions of the factions into the hall. Please call the deputies to the Hall, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the factions. Please mobilize the special faction composition. I understand there's no discussion about the committee's proposal, is there? Everyone agrees, right? Then just let's mobilize all the halls. Colleagues, please be careful. I'm re-voting 3,491 of the Education Act to return to the committee for further work. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Signal vote, please. Vote. [[13:11:31]] For 203 Dear colleagues, by factions, please include the factions. I'll do it. "Clock of Peter Poshenko" – 88, "National Front" – 66, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party Ljashka – 13, "Fathership" – 0, "Rebirth" – 4, "Will of the People" – 11. Colleagues, let's do this. We will not put to the final vote so that the committee's proposal will not be lost. I'll put it back on alert. If we don't have enough votes, let's move on to the next bill. Is this position supported, colleagues? Supported. Let's do it again, come into the hall, concentrate. I'm re-voting the draft Education Act. The education committee's proposal is to return to the first-reading committee. Signal vote. Please support the position of the committee. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Signal vote. [[13:12:55]] For 211 Let's talk about the next one, and then put two together, if there's no objection. It's such a violation, but if there's no objection, let's talk about the next one, and then we'll vote together. Supportable, colleagues? Supported. Okay. The next is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the establishment of a state-of-the-art roster of higher education institutions. There is also a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support. 2281a is a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:13:41]] For-189 Decision taken. These are laws from the same block, and then we'll all vote together. Please welcome the report by the National MP, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u132	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The law that is now proposed to vote is very simple. How is university education now? According to the current state registration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decreed that 10 students have been employed on average since 2002 on an average basis. Now the following situation is happening: students come in, the teacher doesn't want to put twos on them, because every two for him is minus 10 percent of the salary. So a student's reduction is a reduction in the number of appointments. Dear colleagues, this leads to higher education inflation, because if an unmotivated student doesn't want to put twos, that means we support ballast, we support those who don't want to learn. But those students who don't learn, they still get their diplomas. This leads to a situation where 100 graduates enter higher education and receive 100 diplomas. That's not how the situation goes. So what we're proposing in the current legislation is to make the following amendments that will allow up to 30 percent of the students to count without changing the staffing order. For example, an academic group of 35 students, if you count 20 to 25 percent, that means that the group is going to be 28 to 27 students. It's perfectly normal. We've agreed with the department of profile, with a committee that will take into account some of the amendments that Lily Mikhailna is about to announce. And we agree with that in order to vote on this law both on the basis and on the whole. This will provide a powerful tool for our colleges to improve the quality of higher education. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u133	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Education and Science has considered the bill and supported its idea, because, indeed, there is today a situation in higher education institutions where they do not put doubles in order to preserve the contingent. And this violates the actual objectivity of the student evaluation. But some amendments are needed to make this law work. And I want to read for the transcript the amendments to this bill, more faithfully, the text that we're proposing from the Committee on Education and Science: paragraph 1 of this bill is deleted. In paragraph 2, the following wording is added: Article 32, part two, paragraph 5, reads: "Formify and approve your own staffing records according to the current legislation. When the number of people learning under every educational program is reduced, attention is given! – 20 percent of the number determined for the beginning of the curriculum, the current number of science and teaching staff is not shrinking. Please vote on the basis and as a whole in the committee and make appropriate technical and legal corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the recording. And I'm asking you to do a two-for-two, two-again. Please record. Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. To the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! First, I would like to thank all the MPs who are now in Parliament and who are voting these extremely important bills, all the MPs who are putting state interests above some personal, political, and so on. Because the questions of science and education that we are currently looking at, and, thank God that the hands have come to address these very important issues, they are programming the future of our country with you for decades ahead. And that's what we need to do on a regular basis, not in the order of definition. So the question of economic days, the days of education and science is going to be the tradition of the Supreme Council, not the exclusion, as is unfortunately happening. As far as this bill is concerned. Dear colleagues, the Radical Party faction supports the adoption of this bill because we need to ensure normal legislative conditions that would not drive the speaker in a dead end did not make him artificially overestimate his judgment in order that he, his well-being, would not depend on it. The teacher should be objective, professional. And accordingly, when he is demanding to a student, the student himself thanks him. And five years later, and ten years later. And he'll say thank you, Master. That's why we have to adopt this bill today. The Radical Party faction supports it, and it also urges you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u137	Thank you. FROLOW MIKOLLA Aleksandrovich, Petra Dustenka Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u138	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, my dear colleagues, first of all, I am personally concerned by the tendency that has, unfortunately, already developed in our Hall, that when we consider and adopt very important laws related to the real economy, to health, to education, to the areas that concern our entire country, we always have no angels in the hall. But when we consider some scandalous issues, intriguing issues, and so forth, the hall is full and actively involved in these situations. In my view, this is a painful trend that we must share. Basically. Personally, as a practitioner, as a person who worked in all educational chains, I support this bill. The Higher Education Act gave our colleges real autonomy, objectively. But this autonomy must be filled with concrete meaning. And that's what this law does. That's why I support the proposal in the bill. And I urge all of you to vote unanimously for it, because this will be the basis for it as a whole, because this will be the next step towards democratizing our higher education to introduce European standards into its work to increase the autonomy of higher education. The BP faction supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Thank you for your support. And Papi's Mikhail, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to explain in general what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Look, now there are no two factions, although this is their place of work, they're actually taking a walk. If a science teacher hadn't come to work, in three hours, when he was absent from work, he would have been released today. Ukrainian national deputies may not go. And look, today the previous law is the basic law of Ukraine on education. It's not enough that we're looking at a reduced procedure, and the country needs to know that we have a million people working in education today. And, in fact, today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ignoring these people, formally considering the law. The same applies to this law. I have nothing against the very purpose he wants to make. However, the country’s distinguished national deputies are the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are mandatory for execution, regardless of whether their obligation is enshrined in the law. Dear colleagues, we have today the current Order of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2002 of 1134, still in the essence of Minister Kremen Vasil Grigorovovich. Now we're actually setting a standard that can be set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So do your functions as a coalition, force the Cabinet of Ministers, that's their authority. Although, if you're referring to a student, one of the positions of a science teacher wants to enroll in, God is your judge, sign in. Unlike all other laws, it does not make matters worse. That's why the Opposition Block supports this idea. Although it is essentially not, it is not right in the form of a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, yes, everyone has taken part in the discussion. And I'm voting, I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask the secretariat to report that there will be a vote now. Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote, too, and I'll let you know. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a bill to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the establishment of a state-of-the-art roster of higher education institutions, with proposals made by Lilia Greenevich, head of the committee, from the Supreme Council's stand under the stenogram. Signal voting as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, signal vote. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u142	Please support, Your Honor, let's support it. [[13:25:02]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, please, now we're both in this law, and we're in the past. Okay? I mean, I bet. Which has already been discussed is one packet, actually, one block. I'm betting on Law 2281a on amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the establishment of a state-of-the-art roster of higher education institutions, with the proposals that Lilia Greenevich made from the stage for the stenograph as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. This is a committee proposal. You support me, don't you? We vote on the basis as a whole. Support me. Please vote. [[13:25:49]] For 223
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u144	Look, there was an offer. One minute! Attention! Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] There was an offer, and I see that the 223 votes, three votes missing. Come on, colleagues. Colleagues, let's go back to him now. Let's go back. Please concentrate! 223 votes. Well, three votes is not enough. Come on, let's go back. Let's go back. Please support the return. Attention, colleagues! Vote. Please, yes, for your return. [[13:26:40]] For 238. We're back. And now there's a proposition: based on the whole, but there's a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it, let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do this: there's been a presentation by the committee, I'm going to put a signal on the ground right now, and in general, we're going to see the situation. If not, then we'll make another offer. Do you have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please support this proposal, come on. In line with Andrija Volodymyrovich's offer, which he has heard under the transcript, there will now be a signal vote, a rating vote on the basis and in general. Ready? In line with the proposal made by the committee and by Andrey Volodymyrovich Parobius under the transcript. Vote? On the basis of the ratings and in general, please support. Personally, yes. Of course you are. Please be supportive. [[13:27:58]] For 226 Now we are voting on the basis and in general, according to the committee's proposals and what Andrew Volodymyrovich Parobius said under the transcript. Ready? Come on, let's just not break the law, guys. Please vote, vote, vote. All right, everybody, let's vote. Vote. [[13:28:36]] For 228 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. And, colleagues, the previous law. And the previous law, a minute, MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u145	Colleagues, as we agreed, colleagues, the previous law that was discussed, 3491, the committee's proposal to return to the committee for work. Colleagues, it's a common position, no one's denying it, everyone's supporting it. There just weren't any deputies yet. Proposal: 3,491 The Education Act on the Committee's proposal please support, please vote for the Committee's return to read again. Please, we're voting on our colleagues, we're supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u146	Colleagues, pay attention! We vote for coming back to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u147	3491.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u148	Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u149	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u150	Let's vote, according to Andrija Volodymyrovich's proposals. Vote. [[13:29:38]] For 232 The law's been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u151	Decision approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u152	The decision to be processed is correct. Keep your hands where I can see them. 2216a: Ukraine's Act to Amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of technology parks. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. A report by the head of the Halasyuk Committee. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. Technology parks, colleagues. Short-term review, please. [[13:30:47.]] For 185 Thank you. The decision has been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u153	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable National Deputies! The bill is extremely important for the innovation sphere of Ukraine, which is now in a very difficult situation. It is designed to address the problem of technology parks, whose main purpose is to provide a comprehensive scientific production and innovation organization, to support research at the final stage, to develop and industrially produce scientific, high-tech, competitive domestic and world markets for innovation. I want to remind you that in the early 2000s Ukrainian technology parks implemented more than 120 innovative projects, resulting in the creation of 3 and a half thousand jobs, produced by 13 billion dollars of innovative production, and the budget reached over 1 billion dollars at the prices of those days. Unfortunately, as a result of the changes to legislation over the past five years, none of them have been registered — I emphasize, none! – a new innovation project for technology parks. The bill takes into account European experience and proposes deregulation and simplification of registration procedures for both technology parks and projects they carry out. Then they will create favorable conditions for their activities. He's not introducing any new benefits, and I'd like to stress that. The bill is supported by committees of industrial policy and education and science. It is a great request to support it in the first reading on the basis of which to work with the proposals of the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! It is extremely good that we have come to consider this bill, which has been in Parliament since the summer of last year and has been developed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. What does this bill allow for? It does, on the one hand, deregulation in the field of scientific and technical cooperation in the real economy and universities. On the other hand, it sets out absolutely clear requirements, the responsibility of the procedure at the level of direct legislation. If you speak conceptually, this bill is a step forward in the implementation of the models of the triple spiral of Professor Stanford Henry Yckowitz, which is that education and science develops the economy and society only when it's built into a triangle. There are universities, there's a real sector of the business economy, and there's a state that helps them work together. So this bill is practically helping to create this triangle and helping science and education institutions, research universities, universities to work with the real economy. Regrettably, he does not set any tax or other benefits for such technology parks but merely regulates their standards of activity. Moreover, it clears the list of technology parks from free economic zones. So they're not going to be free economic zones. And it also changes the mechanisms of state registration and will clean up the colossal bureaucracy that exists today. So it is a step toward meeting education, science, and meeting the real economy to eliminate the huge barriers that exist between them. So we have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which generally positively appreciates these legislative proposals and makes a number of observations that will be taken into account in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u156	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u157	Thank you. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee believes that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The findings of the Main Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship are positive. We recommend that this bill be adopted in the first reading on the basis of a second reading with the Ministry of Education and Science, together with leading universities and entrepreneurs working with science, developing it, producing a qualitative outcome that will allow Ukraine to really integrate into the scientific and technological space of Europe. Including effectively implementing projects under Horizon 2020 and having access to this huge European funding and transforming Ukrainian science and education from a social burden, as today, unfortunately many people are looking at these spheres as a driver, as an engine for the development of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian society. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Please write. 2216a, draft law. People's MP Sverk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u159	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u160	Please, People's Deputy Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u161	Peter Prashenka's Block, Snotloutny. I want to tell you, fellow honourable colleagues, that this is really an extremely important bill, because it is today. practically this is the introduction of applied science quickly over time and effectively as a result. That's what we need to do today, not just research institutions, because scientific research institutions have another task -- they form fundamental science, but applied science today should form higher, higher education institutions, and work in close cooperation with production. So today we think it's a very timely bill, which we should have considered and accepted a long time ago. But thanks to God for putting him into the session room today, and the MPs will have the opportunity to vote for a promising, market-oriented, I would say market-scientific law that will produce positive results in the near future. Thank you. And I ask everyone to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u163	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please pass on the word to Lilia Mikhailni Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u164	Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Education and Science has also considered this bill, and we support it and ask it to be supported in the first reading. This bill deprives technoparks of the status of special free economic zones. And this status was once talking about existing tax holes in these zones, and it happened directly. It was a negative for technoparks. Now we're removing it. National technology parks are organized, not as territories, but as clusters by thematic direction. The simplified order of their creation and registration is also very important. The bill proposes to simplify the mechanism for the state registration of these technology parks and to strengthen control and responsibility for the implementation of technology park projects. So the bill is very important, the bill also introduces deregulation, and at the same time creates space for the interaction of education, science and innovation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u166	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Please, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u167	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Respectable colleagues, well, the fact that technology parks unfortunately did not work as technoparks meant that they lived for a long time, was a fact. And the fact that, unfortunately to date, there is not a single comprehensive programme of support for the basic manufacturing industries that we have so far in Ukraine, is also a fact. We have talked a lot about the need for a change of course, and we have talked a lot about the need to reorient ourselves towards markets. Unfortunately, this conversation ended with us losing 50 per cent of the market in the east, it's over 5 billion so far, but in the EU countries, unfortunately, we haven't found anything, and we've lost about 26 per cent, which is also about $4 billion to date. There's something to go to those markets. To go, to develop, to develop production together with science, we need to develop basic industries, and we need to understand that. Unfortunately, there is one thing we can say today. The country is gradually becoming a commodity by losing its machinery, construction, aviation. The only thing we are filling out today's income component is our raw materials, which unfortunately, with every day on the market is less and less. And that's a fact. That is why we want to or do not want to, but in any case we need to develop in order to have a niche and support our own economy. That is why we are in favour of adopting this law. Although largely as a law, it is now raw materials: neither a concessional tax system nor a clear understanding of how technology will work to date, nor a clear direction. But we hope that the committee will at least refine it in its first reading in order to adopt a law on second reading that could push the basic industries. And we're ready to support him on his first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko, one minute. All members of the People's Council are requested to take their seats in the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the honourable presiding officer, surely I fully support all those who speak. We really need points of growth. Around Ukraine, only in neighbouring countries, more than 600 designs with different names: technology parks, industrial, free economic zones, special economic zones like Turkey, technological zones -- 600. Where three things are: the state's infrastructure is also created by local governments, where tax preferences and where speed is bureaucratic: discovery, closure of business, simplified forms. All countries are fighting for investment. And we've got them in these free economic zones because of the traffic in traffic and instead of closing the code of these traffic zones, they've taken and canceled all the free economic zones. Go to the Carpathians, I invite you all to the Jabile, to the Flextronix, go to the Eurocar in Solomonovo, look at the latest factories that have been built, and where the state's outcrowded everyone. I was the project manager for Technopolis. Ernst & Young and I have developed a technology park policy so we don't say it's an internal Ukrainian invention. Showed how the whole world works. One and a half years ago, the previous Supreme Council gave 202 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u170	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u171	IT preference, 202 votes. We asked for simplified conditions, because they're all in the Syrian zone. Bucharest gave zero percent, 500 people were taken out only in the previous year, only the largest company in Bucharest. Clearly, then, the law must be passed and strengthened. He's too weak, he won't push Ukraine, even though it's the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote. Adequate to the committee's consideration of the draft law is the conclusion of the committee that it is appropriate to adopt this law on a basis. So I'm asking everyone to take their seats, and now we're going to vote on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. Please take our seats, fellow members of the national parliament. We are preparing to vote on the basis of the draft Law on the introduction of some. changes to some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of technology parks. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, the proposal is made as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please give the rating vote on the basis. Vote. We're voting on the basis. [[13:44:46]] For 218. 218. I think there is. 219. But, colleagues, please take your seats. Take your seats, people's deputies. Yeah, it's an emergency. Please, by the factions. 218, 8 votes missing. I invite all the deputies, you just can't hear. What are you ready to do? Let's re-vote for this important law. I ask all the national MPs to support this as a basis, only as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:46:12]] For 223 Three votes, colleagues. Jurinec, Bilkova [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I think we can vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Let's base the bill (registration number 2216a). On the basis of that, please vote. Vote, please. Vote, please. Please be supportive. [[13:47:13]] For 232 The law has been approved. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Can we report 20? There are two laws that are very important for the self-organization of the population -- 2466 and 2467. It's not just. Is it agreed? Did the author and I agree on what to report? Colleagues, there's a proposal of 2466 as a basis. More specifically, vote for a reduced procedure. One minute, I'll figure it out, one minute. Let's talk briefly, if the author isn't here, then. This is an important civil society law. I'll find out in a minute. It's a shortened procedure, please. Now let's listen to the committee's report and see what's essentially the law. [[13:48:39]] For 171 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u173	I'm sorry, Your Honor, I can only speak on behalf of the committee, because I am authorized to do so on behalf of the author. At its meeting on November 11, 2015, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Self - Organization (registration number 2466) was considered by the Committee on State Building, a regional policy of local self - government. I would like to inform you that the Committee has reached the conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, on the prevention and opposition of corruption, which state that the bill does not conflict with the provisions of the Law of Ukraine, i.e. the Constitution. The Budget Committee, having examined the bill, has adopted a decision that the bill has an impact on the budget indicators, will reduce revenues to the State and local budgets and increase the expenditure of local budgets, and recommended that the draft bill align the provisions of article 17 with those of the Ukrainian Budget Code with those of Ukraine in the form of implementation of Ukraine's local budgets. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that it would be appropriate to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work on the basis of a number of conceptual and technical considerations. With regard to the bill, the committee also received materials from leading scientific institutions, Associations of Local Self - Government Authorities, and relevant scientific institutions, public organizations, associations that indicated the need to update legislation in the field of organizing the activities of self - organization bodies. The committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization of the Population, as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. Unfortunately, Vlasenko's not in the room right now, so I can't speak from the author's team. The second and third authors are Self-Help, which is also not in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I spoke to the author. He does not deny the consideration of this important bill. That's why it's okay. But I want to emphasize one thing. That's the law! Attention! - "The Organs of Population Self-Organization". Associations, a lot of experts have been involved in drafting the law. So this law is not the author, this law. More specifically, he has an author. I mean, it's our common law that will give people the right to make effective use of the possibilities of self-organization. So we heard from the committee. Two for, two against, please sign in. And I would consider it very symbolic to support the organs of self-organization of the population today. We can't approach him for the first time. And you remember Sergey Vlasenko on the Conciliation Board talking about it all the time. Please, come on. Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front, then Dmitri Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich, I fully support you in the fact that power reform and decentralization are very important. And this is what the government has been implementing for the past two years and what has already been the result, the overhaul of local budgets last year -- plus 40 percent. Therefore, we must support local self - government in every way. Regrettably, the author of the bill changed his responsibility to local self - government into his political intrigues, did not show up to work in the hall today, not working, but was engaged in demagogies and political blackmail, and preparations for future local elections. Not the local elections, but the parliamentary elections, so that, again, we do not appear in the hall or defend ourselves, do not exercise our authority. So I suggest that this bill is very important that it should be postponed in order for it to be able to report it to the plenary and also to indicate where it was and why it was absent from the workplace during a report of such important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u176	I'd still like to. I'd like the People's Front faction to change my mind and support it as a basis, it's an important bill. And second position, I said, tomorrow, and he has no objection to his consideration right now. But I emphasize, this is the People's Self-Organization Act, it's about people, it's about this law, so please, I'd like to support this process. Please, Dmitri Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u177	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Maxime Chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u178	Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, I urge you to really vote for this very important law. Not only are the territorial communities waiting for him, but our people are waiting for him. There are very important reforms in our country for decentralization of government. This is how we will fill the territorial communities and finance, and the ability to resolve our pressing issues on our own. This bill actually makes a man a landlord on his own land: in his own backyard, on his own street, on his own block, in his own city. And that's why, in the framework of government reform, it's very important: to give these people's self-organizations at the legislative level: house, street, quarterly committees -- real powers, real ones. So let's say this is a control function, so that in their home or on their street, the asphalt is laid so that none of these things are stolen from the local government. That's when we have such public control, when people feel like they're masters of their land, of odes, and there's order in our state. That's why we need to adopt a given, progressive, draft law on a basis, continue to work on it and prepare it for the second reading. We can't waste time, we went there and tried to do it 20 years in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u180	Thank you, fellow Members of the People's Party. Igor Šurma, one minute. They did not share in the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u181	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear fellow MPs, let's respect Parliamentarianism and ourselves. The law is extremely important, but today it needs at least a formal presence of the authors. This is the first time. Second of all, I'm talking. If we start voting without the author of the bill, let's vote in absentia. Why are we coming here? This is the first question. The other one. We are constantly voting on a reduced procedure. I'll give you statistics on our work. On January 1st, 380 drafts were voted in the session hall, 270 of them being amendments and additions to 70 percent already adopted. In Japan, the effectiveness of the government is calculated by the MP Corps when such laws are passed 60 a year. So I propose, given this importance, to show the wishes of the deputies tomorrow, on Friday, let's, if everyone wants to build Ukraine, come in the morning, and we'll vote on the first draft if we think about local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u183	I want to report again that I have spoken with the author of this bill. This bill is being considered in the hall under reduced procedure. But his preparation, committee discussions, round tables and everything else were the maximum involvement of the Association of Self-Organization Authorities. I have an e-mail from the association where it's pointed out. Therefore, it is determined that the reporter will be National Deputy Boyko. And now she's done it, and there's no one here. I agreed to that question with the author. But people need this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I address the People's Front and all MPs. We're also responsible for the MPs. Mr. Maxim Burbak! Mr. Maxim, I'm addressing you. We're responsible for the MPs and the responsible faction, we can't stop anyone's political games, and that's why I call on the People's Front, to support all the MPs. We cannot go down to the level of political intrigue, but rather take a responsible Ukrainian state position, as the People's Front has always done. Thank you. On the ground, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is co-author Yuri Miroshnichenko. This is saying that this is a completely unpopular draft of the law. If there is a need to report. But I think we should support him. Thank you, MP. Please come in. Let's go into the hall. Let's take our seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no last name, no replica. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no replica, there was no last name. All of it! Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I said. Please, let's take our seats. Let's support it. Please let us support and vote on the basis of this law. Yes, the bill 2466. The question is to vote on the basis of it, and the law is the name of the law: the organs of self-organization of the population. Giving people real tools to influence their own lives. It's a local democracy. Please, emergency. On the basis of 2466, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please support everyone. Vote. [[13:59:12]] For 203 Well, here I think there is. No, it was a signal vote. Next. Colleagues, we've had a signal vote, and I think there's gonna be deputies coming in right now. Let's probably consider another draft of the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let's re-vote for this law. It would be very good for us to endorse him now. Well, really, I'm not. Two hundred votes -- I don't see any perspective right now either. But come on, you can do it when you look at it. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko, a minute from the author's team. The deputies, please come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to address all of you as one of the co-authors. In fact, we need to understand what we are talking about. Not only in the very name, but also by real authorship, this bill was developed by experts who are also proposing that we approve the European experience that would be useful for Ukraine. Because self-government, self-organization of the population, is the principle that each of our factions speaks for. So on the basis of that, I think it's absolutely right to adopt this bill. He will allow our citizens to develop real local self - government. Dear colleagues, let's support this bill so it doesn't get lost. After all, many experts working on European legislation have prepared them. And the representatives of many factions, it's not just Vlasenko who signed, there are dozens of authors who represent all the factions of the Supreme Council. He just checked in another year, almost a year ago. Because it's like we're today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m0.u187	Let's vote, colleagues. And so, now, once again, a signal vote on the ground. I'm asking you all to take your seats, come to your seats, national deputies. Let's try to get him back on track. Ratings are based. Ready? Please vote. Please support this bill as a basis. Signal vote. Vote. [[14:01:52]] For 212 Well, 212-- no votes, no respectable colleagues. We will go back to voting for this law. One minute, one minute of your attention, colleagues. See: at 4 p.m. – I ask everyone to hear – at 4 p.m. we begin the vote of three historic laws that will fully ensure Ukraine's implementation of the visa-free regime and allow Ukrainians to obtain visa-free treatment in the Schengen area of Europe. I have a request and an order from the Parliamentary in two hours until 16th, from 14th to 16th, to call every deputy, send every e-mail, text all available means that this is the most important issue to be considered, asking everyone to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of these laws. I have a similar request to the faction leaders and the parliamentary groups. Please ensure that all deputies are present in the Hall so that we can pass these laws. Also to nonfractional MPs, majors. Please, colleagues, be present so that we can do this with you. Thank you. I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. We start the evening session at 4:00. I count on the responsibility of every national MP and every faction. Thank you, Your Honor.
