ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for your registration. I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:04:08]] 339 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today's birthday to the National Deputies: Olga Valentinovna Belkova. Hello, we welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk Welcome to Ivanchuk. Welcome to our colleague. [[Applause]] Arthur Volodymyrovich Martovicko. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] We prohibited flowers from bringing them into the hall, and they still bring them. Colleagues, today, a delegation of fellow parliamentarians from the European Parliament, led by Pat Cox and Andre Pleenkovic, visited the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our European colleagues are helping us to reform Parliament. And today we will have a joint strategic discussion on reforming the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hope that these plans that we have and put before us about reforming Parliament will be able to be implemented together. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we have a few phone calls to make right now. This is a demand from two factions for the performance, the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland. We've got another one. The other one. We have a call from two factions -- Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front -- on the contrary. But before that, with your permission, I'll give Irina Heraszczenko one minute to speak on behalf of the liberation of our citizens, our brothers from the captivity of the Russian invaders. Mrs. Irina, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! I wanted to address you with these words on Tuesday, but on Tuesday the aircraft that brought us aboard, the Ukrainian plane, two Ukrainian political prisoners Yuri Soloshenka and Gennady Afanassieva landed at 6 p.m. So today, on behalf of the President, from all of us, I want to thank many of you very much for your contribution to the fact that two other Ukrainians have been released. Because I remember all your shares, our shares. And I talked about it on the plane, and Mr. Yuri, and Hennadia, and the work of our speaker, and each of you in that direction. And the only thing we want to notice here is that we have to continue to fight together for others. This month is key in the context of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the EU and NATO. And we need to keep two questions: freeing every hostage and sanctioning the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, thank you for your contribution to the liberation of two other Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Colleagues, therefore, are asking two factions of our Parliament to announce a recess, but they are ready to replace the break with a speech. And we invite the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska Oleg Lazko. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to inform Ukrainian citizens that yesterday the members of the Coalition of Panamanian Patriots, represented at the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, did not appear at the committee meeting, which made it impossible for them to make decisions, particularly with regard to the draft Decision on the Implementation of the Gas Price Recalculation for the Population, which I, along with other colleagues, registered as of January of this year. The draft regulation proposes that the government be asked to recalculate the cost of gas for citizens, because 7,000 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas is an entirely unfounded, corrupt, space price that is being squeezed from Ukrainian citizens by the current government. This price of 7,000 dollars for a thousand cubes has been adjusted to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine since 29 April 2016. The cost of producing Ukrainian gas together with VAT, along with transport costs, together with a trade price of not more than 2.5-3 thousand dollars per thousand cubes. Ukrainian citizens receive 7,000 dollars of gas. At the committee meeting yesterday, neither Naftogazu nor the representatives of the NCREKP were able to explain why they are 2.5 times more withdrawing from Ukrainian citizens. By decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was written by the ignorant, who bought diplomas with no brains, because it contradicts economic theory, which is a component of the cost of production of the oil and gas complex. The determined price of domestic gas is linked to the price of imported gas. Ukraine is not receiving any import gas at all in the second quarter of this year. Of the 20 billion cubic metres of gas produced last year in Ukraine, 19 billion went to the needs of housing and utilities. I have a question: why should Ukrainians pay for gas at the price of imported gas when most of the gas they consume is domestic gas. They pay for corruption and irresponsibility, they pay for offshore officials, for not paying taxes. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires an investigation into offshore corruption, a review of gas prices, and a return on the value of gas to the citizens. Last week we collected almost 100,000 signatures from Ukrainian citizens who brought this to Parliament if the impotent Parliament of the Coalition of Panamanian Patriots.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform the deputies so the deputies don't break up, we don't have a time for speeches, half an hour. We simply comply with the rule that two factions have the right to a break that can be changed in the speech. This morning, there is a large concentration of such statements. Three statements, one was already a colleague's speech. That's why we're staying in places, then we're moving to the agenda, and today is a very important agenda, especially the first questions of our session. That's why I'd like to be there. Now, I've said the same thing about two MP factions, even three MP factions -- the Opposition Block, the Wills of the People and the Rebirth -- call for breaks, but they're also ready to change the break for the performance. And it's given by Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u6	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow Parliamentarians! Today, in the Ministry of Social Policy on the second and fifth floors, representatives of the five industrial areas of Ukraine, namely, today 80 people, representing organizations, social organizations of disabled miners, disabled metallurgy workers, miners of uranium ore, have come to defend their constitutional rights and to declare a peaceful protest. Today, these people who have lost their health at work are still starving. They represent the category of people who have lost their health at work, namely, 250,000 Ukrainian citizens who have given up their health by working on harmful and dangerous products. Today, they are not affected by inflation, nor are they able to index their regressive payments. Today their families suffer, their children suffer, their relatives and loved ones suffer. Against the backdrop of increasing inflation, there is an increase in the cost of medicines needed to maintain health, food growth, and these people are still lacking in their regressive payments. Therefore, the faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Block" demands – Andrei Vladimirović, I request your attention! – that today, you have included Act 4015 on the agenda, which will enable you to index regressive payments and will enable you to receive compensation for loss of health at work. They won't leave, they've declared a hunger strike! Therefore, if we leave for two weeks without passing Law 4015, these survivors are already risking their lives and health, losing their health, and risking their lives. Imagine that such a hungry miner or a metalsmith, who is also sick, is disabled by the second, third group, a regressor and is now starving. It's a crime not to pass this law, double. We insist that we make it a priority. Andrei Vladimirovich, I approached you yesterday: 4015, please. And, fellow MPs, I would like to ask for your attention, I must accept it — 4015 necessarily — on the indexation of regressive payments. Author: Mikhail Papiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u7	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I want to tell you that today's bill stands for inclusion in the agenda. If there's the will of the hall and we put it in the agenda, we can get right to its consideration, it's important that there be support to be voices, but there is. Colleagues, and last but not least, the last call to us from two political factions, the most powerful, is from the deputy faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front, and they're also ready to take a break from the scene. And I ask you to turn on the microphone to the head of the "National Front" faction of Maxim Burbaku. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u8	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honorable People of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u9	I'm asking for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u10	Today, there will be an honest Thursday in the Supreme Council, today the question will be solved: or we will return the money under the special confiscation regime that has stolen the Yanukovic regime and its gravel, the budget of Ukraine, I remind you, one and a half billion dollars; or this money will once again be an example of the theft in parliament and will be protected by the lobbyists of the Yanukovic regime. Question of Bill 4811. Yesterday, he passed a profile committee and this money, and we have to vote today in order to return a billion and one and a half dollars to the Ukraine budget, and that money will go to a higher level of defense. I would like to remind everyone that in eastern Ukraine, the fighting is intensifying now, military action is on its way. There are alarming signals that our defence companies are underfunded for the first time in two years after the Dignity Revolution. The Yatzenuk government was arrested almost a year ago. We must make a political decision and return this money to the state. Janukovic's regime could have stolen them, and we parliamentarians can't put them back in the budget. This money has to go to security, to raise social standards, and today it's going to be a fundamental question, or patriot MPs will vote in favour of increased defence, or Janukovich's supporters will give different examples of what's illegal. There was no stealing then, you'll answer. And today, the people of Ukraine, look at everyone, personally, as anyone will vote in order to finally get Ukraine's money stolen by Yanukovich back into the budget and work for the defence. Today it's a fundamental question for the People's Front. So, Mr. Head, I'm addressing you when there's the moment of the largest vote in the room, put this question into the agenda, and then we're looking at it as a whole, and we're finally dealing with the question of the return of money. If not, the People's Front leaves behind the full right not to vote for any other bill because it makes no sense. We need to defend the state if we don't defend it without anyone to reform and raise social standards. How about this shirt on all airs, our patriotic woes? Today's fundamental question, we'll support it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Maxim. I want to tell all the heads of factions that you've been referring to, those issues that you've been focusing on, in particular, the question of specific confiscation, the question of miners is in the agenda section of the day session. If there's the general will of Parliament as soon as there's the greatest concentration of MPs, maybe about 11 hours, I'll put it to the vote right now. If Parliament supports, we will consider both the special confiscation and the issue of miners, which have raised three factions of our Parliament. The moment the highest concentration is about 11 o'clock, I'm going to suggest that we put it on the table. Thank you very much, colleagues, and we are moving into the order of the day session. Please ask everyone to take our jobs first question is the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's defence laws, 4563. An extremely important bill, Colonel Kuceryawy Andry Volodymyrovich, Colonel Krivonis Sergey Grigorovich, has arrived to see us, so that we can participate in the discussion. Our military representatives of the Special Operations Force, the army is waiting for decisions from us, the boys on the front line are waiting for decisions. And so I'm asking you to go to his consideration and I'm asking you to look at it in a simplified way. Therefore, who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. 4563 – summary procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:19:56]] For-162 162 for. Decision taken. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! With the arrival of the Green Men in Crimea, we all face a new challenge, a new type called the hybrid war. Ukraine is obliged to respond to these challenges. That's why, given that the structure of the administration, that the structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces was still inherited from Soviet times, has come to see the need, firstly, for the introduction of new types of the Armed Forces; secondly, at the legislative level to change the governance structure. What the bill proposes. The bill introduces the term “the unified operational headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as an authority for the management of species and inter-ministerial groups of troops”. This bill is introduced into the laws on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the Defence of Ukraine, a new species is the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And a new type of Armed Forces is being introduced -- these are the High Army Army of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The committee, having carefully examined all these changes to the law yesterday, taking into account the urgency of the matter, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill on the basis and in general the following amendments. Paragraph 4, paragraph 2, of the first draft of the law, reads as follows: "Separate type of military is the High Army Army of the Armed Forces of Ukraine", "Separate type of force is the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine". With these editorial rights in mind, we propose to consider this law on the basis and in general, to support the creation of the Special Operations Force, to structure the Armed Forces and to be prepared to reflect external aggression. Thank you and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Defence, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u14	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to meet the requirements of the National Security Strategy of Ukraine and aims to streamline the structure of the military authorities of the Armed Forces, as well as to clarify the legal principles of military command. This has to do with the completion of the United Operations Headquarters, the Special Operations Force, and the High - Mobile Army. The amendments made to the three defence legislation are as follows: In Ukraine's Defence and War State Laws, give the legal status of military command to the United Operations Headquarters, command of the Special Operations Force, and command of the High Mobile Army. In the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, complete the overall structure of the Armed Forces by forming military authorities, defining their locations in this structure. The draft act is agreed upon by six interested authorities and, in accordance with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, the outcome of the review can be accepted. Its implementation is carried out within the limits of the expenditure foreseen by the State Budget for the Ministry of Defence for the corresponding year. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a record: two for, two against. But be as concise as possible so that we can do more. Please two for, two for against. Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, Lapin Igor, People's Front, 22 constituency. I ask everyone to join the vote for this bill, stop fertilization in the hall. I know it takes a lot for us colleagues to take pictures of the scarves of Ukraine's collective, but let's be a gathering of Ukraine in the fight against an external aggressor. This bill is very important, and now we're just going to see who's going to go to war on all fronts over Ukraine and who's going to pyrate against the background of the Ukrainian flag. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u17	Heroic glory. Thank you. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Ukrainian Armed Forces special forces are the elite of our army, the elite that becomes decisive in one or the other military operations, the elite that depends on the format of the fighting, the elite that we lacked at the beginning of Russia's invasion, and the elite that would then be could have prevented this armed conflict. So I ask the MPs to serve and work for the people of Ukraine, for the sake of our nation, for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to make decisions to protect our soldiers as much as possible here in the back, by adopting appropriate laws, because they protect us all. So I ask my colleagues to hide their own ambitions, not to do political shushing together, but to sit down and vote on this law, which is decisive for both our defenders and the people, and for Ukraine. Praise be to Ukraine, glory be to our warriors! Members, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u19	Thank you, thank you for your flexibility, colleagues. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich is handing over the Shepherd, but we need to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u20	Please hand it over to Taras the Shepherd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u21	Taras Shepherd. Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. This bill, it's really out of date. It was to be accepted a year ago. But we need to give due respect to our Armed Forces, and to those advisors who are now working in Ukraine from partner countries who have already helped shape, and who have helped the boys in training and in developing the same normative act that we are now adopting. He's really in line with the Defense Department's advisors, with the General Staff. And in order not to delay any more time, we support this proposal in order to support the bill now, both in the first reading and in general. And allowing the boys to carry out their fighting tasks directly to protect our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u22	Thank you. Rybchin conveys the word of Hope to Savechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u23	People's deputies, pay attention! You're all in a restful mood right now, I get it. I am. On the right, on the left of us are guys who can fight and protect their land. No one's coming to the front tomorrow, and they're going to. And let them do it as effectively as possible. This bill, which is now in the vote, about the Special Forces, is one of the most prepared and non-cheap drafts. That's why. Someone's going to go, we're not going to find out who's going to go, who's not going. I am. You know what I'm talking about. Not tomorrow we'll go with you, and they'll be there tomorrow. They know and know how to do this, they know how to fight Russia effectively. Believe me, this bill is something you really need. It had to be done yesterday, but at least make it for them tomorrow. So vote. The Motherland party is fully in favour. And we're not going to take any more time with the boys, and we're going to have to put an end to this war! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to proceed to the vote. And that's the right thing to do. I'm asking you to invite all the national MPs into the hall right now. There will be a vote in three minutes. It's 1 minute, Sergey Melniczuk. One minute from the Radical Party, and the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u25	The People's Will Group will support this bill because it's unique, that's what it is. And really, boys need help. This idea will ripen for a very long time, and we will definitely support it. What, though, can we do about those lampstands that sit in front of the Ministry of Defense? This general planted a bunch of volunteers. It's got blood on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u26	Sergei, I'm asking you to speak by law, please. By law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u27	It's by law, and who's going to run it if you're human. Now there will be a law that will be discussed, money to bring Yanukovich back to defense. Who spent that money? Who designed the export of scrap metal? Who broke the cut of the broken technique? This is the general who received the rank and promotion for this. He needs to be put in jail, and here he represents the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u28	He's got a word. Last act, Oleg Lazko. And we vote, colleagues. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction is in opposition to the socio-economic course of today's government. At the same time, the faction of the Radical Party has never been or will not be in opposition to the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. The issue of defence, the issue of national security, the issue of a powerful, strong, modern army, is a priority for our political power. So our faction is voting for all the laws aimed at strengthening the security of our country, including this law, which will make the army stronger. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you for your firm stand. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues! I am voting on the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s defence laws (No. 4563). At the suggestion of a profile committee, I put to the vote an offer to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. 4563 as a whole. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[10:32:06]] For 256 I'm asking you to turn on the factions and show them. Block of Petra Poshenko – 106, National Front – 72, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Radical Party Lyashka – 15, Fatherskina – 17, Rebirth Party – 3, Will of the People – 5. And skeptics said that there would be hard work in Parliament. Congratulations to the authors. Welcome to our Deputy Secretary of Defense. Welcome to Kucheryev Andry Volodymyrovich, Krivonos Sergey Grigorovich. Success and victory, society, over the aggressor. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question is no less important than what we have just considered. This is a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (3822-d). The Society, the week was held with a remarkable, extraordinary work and committee, primarily by Victoria Sumar, and by the working group I was gathering. We've come up with a compromise bill that supports the public. Let's talk about it quickly together and support it so that never again language issues are the subject of disunity in our hall. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Who supports the review of the reduced procedure, please vote 3822-d. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. [[10:33:53]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to address the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u31	Colleagues, dear Mr. Head, Andrew Parubius has already said many of the things I should have told you here. Two bills, which were extremely heated in this room, we were able to use both the authors and the authors and the first, and the second, and the public activists and the activists of Widsichi and the Ukrainian performers of the most famous, and representatives of the radio industry, the Ukrainian radio. We were able to find agreement. What we found agreement is very important to hear right now. We agreed that in Ukrainian radio broadcasting, 1 out of 3 songs would be in English. We agreed that at least 60 percent of the Ukrainian radio is going to be Ukrainian. And all this talk show that's going on in the morning and that's going to be in Ukrainian. We agreed that this would be measured twice by blocks of 7 hours, this quota should be kept just on the day that the Ukrainian song will not be pressed at night or at hours when no one listens to the radio. In fact, it's a law that allows us to launch more than just language into radio broadcasting today. My colleagues, listen, you and I can run a whole layer of Ukrainian culture, a whole layer of Ukrainian culture, when the songs are ordered by Ukrainian composers, Ukrainian poets when they're recorded by Ukrainian studio artists. Let's start to form Ukrainian culture from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u32	Thank you. Thank you for the great work of the committee and thank you for your position, Victoria. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u34	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Ladies and gentlemen, this law that we are about to vote is no less important than the law that we have just voted and that strengthens our defenses. In accordance with this law, we are overcoming the spiritual and informational aggression of the Russian Federation, which has taken place all 25 years since the restoration of the Ukrainian state, which is an epoch. And now we're going to look very carefully: who will have a hand not to vote in favour of this law or to vote against it, or "restraint". It is clear that this person, who does not vote in favour of this law, stands up for the further ruse of Ukraine, is stamping out for further information and spiritual occupation by our ancient enemy. I call upon all who are in and out of the hall to come here and support this vital law for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u35	Thank you. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" – Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The electorates of my district have given me a clear mandate to vote in favour of this law. And I'd like my colleague to make a sound about the position of his constituents as well. Victor Krivenko. Pass the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u37	This form of speech is not allowed, colleagues. This form of the performance is not allowed. Turn it off, please. You're better than I want to remind everyone that the performance can be completed, but it's impossible to pass it on just in the first seconds. By Irina Igorovna, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, at no meeting of any committee of the Supreme Council, I saw no representative of the oligarchic radio or television channels begging the members of the Supreme Council to increase the quota for Ukrainian. Unfortunately, this bill is a nuisance, it is a gift for which we will of course vote and we will support. Of course, at the 25th year of independence, we shouldn't ask for 35 percent of the state language on radio and television. During the 25th year of independence, the threat to our language is no less severe than in Soviet times. However, we will support this bill as the first draft, we will intervene in increasing quotas in the state language in the radio channels. We hope that the next Supreme Council, the next society, which will be more toothless in the demands of the Supreme Council deputies, will achieve what the Ukrainian language will sound like in radio broadcasts per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u39	From Fatherland, factions, Hope of Savichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u40	National deputies, get your attention back to the pile. Now you're going to hit football and you're going to sing with your yellow and blue hymn scarves in Ukrainian. So finally, let us sing in Ukrainian all the radios and televisions of Ukraine so that there will be more and more of our language in our country, on our airs. Yes, of course, that's not enough, we'd like more. But let's start at least with this and we'll add, and we'll add, we won't break through the knee, but let's do it as it should be. Vote for the law! We're voting for him!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, listen to me, please. About 15 speakers want to speak under the law, I think each one of them is acting to support it. Let's make a decision, we can explain our position on all airs. Colleagues, let's just vote. Viachelav Anatoliyovich, let us vote. Okay, one minute Kirilenko, one minute Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I want to support everything that Victoria Sumar said and the MPs speaking, and I want to report that this is the fourth stage in modernizing and modifying this bill. And at this point, all the wishes and visions of the radicals, the public, the MPs and the government are taken into account. So this is a fully agreed bill that provides a quota of 35 percent, which takes into account the interests of radio stations, provides for a transitional period, the appropriate powers of the Television and Broadcasting Board, and monitors, and makes the necessary changes to three laws. I ask for your support, because this is not just a question of humanities, but of national security in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote, and move on to the decision-making process. It's really a matter of national importance. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on Part of Songs in State Language in Music Radio and Radio, number 3822-d. On the basis and in general, colleagues, please vote. Patriots, please vote, we vote colleagues! [[10:42:53]] For 268. 268 for. The law has been passed, congratulations! Welcome to our friends who support us at the Supreme Council. I welcome all the deputies. Colleagues, I very much ask you not to go to the halls. We have another historic decision to make. I very much ask the deputies to return to the hall. Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that I asked yesterday to meet with the heads of the patriarchal factions of Philaret and we had a conversation on matters both religious and Ukrainian. And we agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today would be able to support the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the sanctity of Wafholomy, the archbishop of Constantinople and New Rome, the Universal Patriarch, for the granting of auto-Cefalia to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. Colleagues prepared the address were prepared, and the committee was prepared and ready to be considered. I am very much asking everyone who understands the depth and importance of this issue now to support me and to include me in the agenda and to consider this decision. Everyone who understands the importance of this question, all the patriots in the room, I ask you to support the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm putting a motion to vote: to include the draft Decree 4793 in the agenda for the decision. The proponent of the proposal is to vote. Ukrainians, we vote 4793, please. [[10:45:14]] For 238. 238, yes. Decision taken. Let's go to Project Decree 4763. And I ask you to vote in favour of its consideration of the reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please, 4793, we vote. [[10:45:47]] For a hundred and 192 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will there be no objection to my reporting to Mary Mathios? Sergei? I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Maria Matios. Please turn on Mrs. Mary's microphone. Please. Mary Mathios' microphone, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, today we are looking at a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the sanctity of Bartholomew, the Archbishop of Constantinople and New Rome, the Universal Patriarch for the granting of auto-Cefalia to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. The question raised today by the Supreme Council is of historical significance, not only because it is on the calendar 16.06. This Regulation shall enter It is considered before the extraordinary event in the Orthodox world, the beginning of the Orthodox Council, which will take place for the first time in 1,300 years. If we speak in a low style and without puffos, our appeal to His Holiness the Universal Patriarch of Warfolomy I can be formulated with one sentence: "The Independent State needs an independent Auto-Cefal Church." It's in our room. [[Applause]] I understand very well that in our room some question whether we Ukrainian parliamentarians have the right to appeal to the Mother Church to return the Orthodox Kiev to its omofor. I do not know how right is, but I do know that each of us national defenders has a duty to the nation, to his people, who have delegated to us the right to speak on his behalf about his people, his current problems. Is there any doubt in this room that the problem that we are discussing is relevant both to a large part of Ukrainian society and to those politicians who think in national categories? And I'm one of the co-authors of this decision today on behalf of that part of society that I started with.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u45	30 seconds, please. Finish up. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u46	It is a natural step for an independent state to emerge from an empire that has held and continues to hold Ukraine by its throat and throat, not only economic and political, but also the throat in which prayer and conversation with God are born. The philosophers will say that this could be a historic opportunity, and skeptics will say that there is no hypermanipulating technology today. It's no time to make harsh moves and bold statements. But the statesmen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u47	30 seconds. Allow me to finish Mrs. Mary, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u48	Come on, please. We won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u49	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u50	But the statesmen, you and I, in the vast majority here, deny: the favorable time for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian word and for the Ukrainian faith was almost never, but there were always the braves who had the civil courage to form the founding postulates for a self-sufficient state. Is there anyone here who doubts Ukraine’s self - sufficiency as a nation? By our appeal to his Universality of the Patriarch, we do not in any way demean those who have a different opinion and beliefs in Ukraine. We do not deprive anyone of the right and the chance to be with what they want, we only claim that if there is an independent state, there can be no dependence or disunity of spirit and faith. So I am confident that you, my dear colleagues, will support this document, which will help the Ukrainian Church to have a proper place in the family of local Orthodox churches and help unite the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Maria. Dear colleagues, I think we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask you to put all matters aside in this matter of weight. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm drafting a decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the sanctity of Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and New Rome, the Space Patriarch on the granting of the Orthodox Church autocathal in Ukraine (number 4793) with the proposal of a committee, on the basis and in general. Vote, colleagues, vote, please support. [[10:51:25]] For 245 Decision taken. Colleagues, this is how history is made, and we will be witnesses, very quick to see when there will be one local Orthodox Church in Ukraine, and each of us will know that we, by our will, have joined in this matter with our power. May I see the factions, please? "Peter Poshenko" – 101, "The People's Front" – 68, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 20, "The Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 15, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "The Rebirth" – 0, "The Will of the People" – 5. Thank you all for your support. Postfaction is 21. Dear colleagues, I welcome the authors of the initiative, Sergey Visatsky, Maria Matios, all who supported and conducted this idea. Thank you all for your support. Dear colleagues, we now have, according to the order of the day's decision on the five decisions that we discussed yesterday. There were no questions, no questions asked, no questions asked. We had 225 votes. We were short two or three deputies in the hall. And I suggest, colleagues, that we vote now. I ask you to prepare for the vote. It's out of the question. We're waiting. 11 o'clock, Maxime, as I promised, 11 o'clock. I promised I'd set up a special confiscation at 11 o'clock. That'll be at 11 o'clock. And now until 11 we have five minutes to decide on the ratifications. So we have a chapter on "decision-making from the issues under discussion." We talked yesterday, everyone was supported. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on International Combined Transport (0098). Whoever supports this decision, please vote on the basis as a whole (0098). International decision, ratification. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:53:51]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next 0099 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on air links. Who supports this decree 0099 on the basis and in general, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:54:24]] For 269 Decision taken. Next. 0100 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on air transport. It's a very important bill, which was very much emphasized yesterday. Who supports adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft law (0100), please vote. Please vote. [[10:55:00]] For 272 Decision taken. Next ratification. This is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on Air Connection, 0101. It's also an important bill. It was completely discussed yesterday. Whoever supports the adoption of this draft law on the basis and in general, please vote. Please vote. [[10:55:37]] For 279 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Next, the last, the international decision that we had was a draft regulation on the initiation of a negotiated process to amend the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, 1990, 0084-P. I would like to vote in favour of her return to the debate. And please support this proposal. Please vote. 0084-P, come back. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:56:19]] For 253 Thank you. We're back. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Ordinance on Initiation of a Negotiating Process for Amendments to the Agreement on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre, 0084. You're not really in favour of this decision? You'll support it. Please. 0084-P. Anyone who supports this decision as a whole, please vote. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. [[10:56:58]] For 258. The law is passed. Decision taken. Welcome to our committee. Welcome to all the authors. Dear colleagues, it's 11 o'clock. As I promised the factions in the morning, at 11 o'clock, when the hall was concentrated, there were demands on the factions of the People's Front, the Block of Petra Prashenko, 4811, to put it in the agenda for consideration. And for miners, two bills -- 4781 and 4015 -- it was a requirement of three factions. And 4733-1, they're all here, colleagues. So I'm going to put them one at a time. With the support of the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the illustration is right here, society. I ask you to be careful, society, there's also a illustration, there's also a bill that applies to the illustration. And, colleagues, I'm starting with the first bill that was required. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of effective mechanisms aimed at detecting property acquired by criminal or other unlawful means, preventing its use against the interests of society and the state. Who will stand for the bill, and who will act on it? One minute, please, one minute. Maxim, a minute of reason. Please. All right, guys, I'll bet. Attention! Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u52	My fellow Members, I call upon all deputies to show their nationality and responsibility to the people of Ukraine. Let's return the money stolen by Yanukovic's regime back to the Ukrainian budget to make it work both for security and for raising social standards. You can tear shirts on air, but you have to show by your vote who's really a patriot in this session room, and who's Janukovich's posse, who's protecting his money. We vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, it's not a discussion, it's an inclusion in the agenda of the session. Honorary colleagues who support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the creation of effective mechanisms for the detection of property acquired by criminal or other unlawful means, preventing it from being used against the interests of society and the State (4811). Please prepare for the vote. Give money to Yanukovich to the Ukrainian army! Whoever supports this decision, please vote 4811. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:00:24]] For 169 169 for. Please include the factions. The factions, please. I'm asking for the factions: "Peter Poshenko's Block" -- 74, "The People's Front" -- 73, "The Opposition Block" -- 0, "The Self-Help" -- 2, "The Renaissance Party" -- 0, "The Radical Party" -- 9, "The Fatherland" -- 0, "The Will of the People" -- 0, "The Will of the People" -- "The Non-Factional" -- 11. Dear colleagues, this will be the next important Law on Illustration. But. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next bill, I give the floor to two factions of the BP and the People's Front. Please, Auntie Blackwall. Tanya Blackwall. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u54	This is about restoring justice. 50 billion stolen from the budget should go to the state budget of Ukraine. The other one. This is about national security. You realize that 50 billion is the tenth part of Ukraine's budget. At this cost, we can now improve our lives in this country, and this is our strength to fight the Russian aggressor. Third. People! I'm trying to access your responsibility. You people's deputies, look here, look here. Do you know this boy? Do you know him? And this is your son, because this guy's name is Moustim Brezov and his father died on August 10 in the fight for the Ilovaysk on the front! He doesn't have a father, and he never will! That's your son! Now, I'm going to tell you how his father died! I'll tell you! It was an attack on Ilowaysk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u55	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u56	Michael Brezov was sent to the head of the platoon to investigate a single platoon fighting a single A.T.R. They found a point of support. Mikola passed it on the radio, he said, "Shall we go back?".. And they said, "No, go ahead" was the commander's sick ambitions. And he went forward knowing there was little chance. Why did he go forward? Because he knew he had to follow orders, and if he didn't follow orders, he'd fly all over the front! You know he was right and he went ahead. Do you know what happened next? And then, he's got an A.T.R. spell, he's dead. Have respect! Have respect! A moment of silence! Have respect! Then he spelled the machine gun, then the sniper wounded the soldier from his squad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, let's announce a moment of silence. Mrs. Tetjano, a minute of silence, please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, Your Honor, thank you, Mrs. Tetian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u58	I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u59	Come on, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u60	Are you kidding me?Oh, my God! Look into this child’s eyes. Are you kidding me?Oh, my God! He will never have a father. Listen up! Then a sniper wounded a soldier.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u61	One more minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u62	He went to get this fighter because he didn't want to be held responsible for stupid orders; he thought he could get him out, so he was killed. Now this 50 billion -- listen to your responsibility! – they go to repair and upgrade weapons, they go to teachers who teach our children. Because his father died for Ukraine, so that this Ukraine would be, because that's the most important thing we can do for children, not houses, not money, not stolen money, nothing, we can give to our children Ukraine. And dozens of parents have already died for this, now you, their parents, can pass on to your children Ukraine and these children, that's your responsibility. And so you, national deputies, if you can do something useful for the country, do it. I address everyone, anyone who doesn't hate me, whom I don't hate, I turn to those whom I respect, and who respects me, I turn to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u63	30 more seconds, please finish, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u64	Because we have one thing in common, we have one thing in common, we love Ukraine, we even love the Opposition Block because it's sitting here, it's not running abroad, we all love Ukraine. Feel responsible, make it useful for the country, by pressing the button to improve the lives of 50 billion in the budget. Make it useful, I'm as sincere as ever, I'm asking you to be honest with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u65	Thank you. I've had an application under this bill from two factions of Fatherland and Self-Help. And I give my word to whom? Andrew Kozemiakin. Please include Cosmiakina. Please, a statement by Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I want to. Let me tell you, you wanted me to say. Dear colleagues! I want to explain some things, you know, the thing is that neither I nor the faction, no one here in the hall, except for some, will ever object to what they just thought. What's more, we've all been fighting the Yanukovich regime, and we all want these funds to be found in the end, because they've been looking for them for two years, and no one can say that it's expensive, and when they're found. This time. The other one. But you know, more than anything, it's not this, it's amazing that Mr. Cox is living the glory of God, and, God give him a lot of life. But what does he recommend to the Supreme Council today is why we need it if we do not respect the Rules and Laws today? What's going on? And it's very simple, knowing, and I'm grateful to every member of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, because their fundamental position today is to manipulate and ring the board of the Supreme Council. How? This bill 4057 was called off by the authors they came to the committee on April 13th, Mr. Winnick, Mr. Heratschenko, and they said we agreed to call it off, it's short-lived, it has to be rewritten. We've created a group of 10 people, it's made a good law, it's normal, it's from a criminal trial that translates all this procedure and problem into a civilian. It's literately legal and worldwide, but someone doesn't want it, because something needs it now. You know, it burns, it burns? Oh, what's burning is sorry. [[Applause]] What I want to tell you is that this bill makes it possible to abuse today, to allow for raids, and to abuse law enforcement in determining what to confiscate, what to take, and where to operate, whether in private or in pocket. Against this committee, each member spoke. [[Applause]] So, your honor, personally, Mr. Parpuy, is writing this bill, not on a committee that I am leading, but on a committee headed by Mr. Pashinsky. Why? Because there's a first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u67	Because there is, first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, because there's a first phrase that this bill seems to be amending the Ukrainian National Security Act. Dear Mrs. Bogholtz, my distinguished colleagues are committee leaders, please now you can reform the Ministry of Defence by writing the first line of the project novel, which will be necessary for health protection. All right, keep going. But what I'm trying to say is that such manipulation and such inadequacy, it's through.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u68	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u69	My colleagues, once again, I want to say that these bills, which are being so pushed today, you understand. Those who need a country are lying there, and they're waiting, and they're getting in, in a year, in two, and they're all looking forward to it. When the bill is pushed with legs, head and hands, what are we, and how are we different from those who voted on January 16? When we blocked the rostrum, what did they do? Let's go in the corner and vote. It's the same thing. Today it doesn't work with this committee -- we put it where it can go. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, pay attention! The bill aroused great emotions in the hall. Let's exchange thoughts. First of all, people have a right to rep. And whoever wants the factions to come out, I'll give them my word, too. We exchange thoughts on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] In a minute. And then, if it's necessary, I'll put it again. In a word, Vinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u71	In fact, I co-authored Bill 4057, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading, which introduced an active mechanism that allows for the State to collect the money and bonds that have been arrested for a long time in the Ukrainian accounts that belong to Yanukovich and his environment. In fact, I was on the Committee on Law Enforcement, headed by Mr. Cosemiakin, and whose talk we have just heard. But it will continue to be true. And the truth is, when I came to the committee with my proposals, the committee had already printed and issued a decision to cancel the results of the first reading. It was reported by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. No one was going to work anything out, you could look at this decision on the Supreme Council website or get a transcript, it's true. So, honourable colleagues, if you want to do it, do it, if you want to talk about it, go to the rostrum and say, "We won't return Janukovich's money because they gave us the money to make them feel better." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, 1 minute from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the truth is that in this Parliament, as a rule, there are lobby laws that have only been registered yesterday or the day before. Instead, all the bill that protects the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in particular, about the recalculation of the price of gas for the population we registered in January, yesterday the committee didn't gather, the bill didn't give people the opportunity to lower the price of gas. Similarly, all other laws do not allow adoptions that allow for the protection of Ukrainian citizens. That's why we're demanding that we stop all of the "chainers" right now, vote for the Law on the Reduction of Gas Price for Citizens, on the Return of the Payment Price for People, on the Elimination of Naftogazu and on the Investigation of Corruption, because when you talk about corruption, this corruption starts with power, when money is taken off, on the Offshore, they don't pay taxes, and on the other hand, three skins are taken off.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, is there another need to put the vote to the vote? It doesn't, does it? Then, dear fellows, let us go to other questions. Nadia Savchenko and let's move on to other questions. Okay, please. Nadia Savchenko, I said Nadia Savchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u75	Look, there was a question on the committee yesterday. Yes, money for the army is sacred, taking money to Yanukovich is also very right, and you're starting to speculate on these two questions. There were representatives of the General Staff yesterday, I explained to them that they had money, they stole it themselves, and they're holding it. Ukrainian helicopters fly to Africa, there's a firm called Ukrainian helicopters, led by the generals of our army, who beat the resources of our helicopters, earning money in their pockets. This is a private company with military helicopters. They don't want them back now. You don't even know that. Next, leased land is leased at no cost to the military. It's also money in the army. You don't understand that Genstab himself won't return this money to war. You want to make this law worse. You, first. I'm here to take money from Yanukovich. I'm just not here to steal it, and they didn't go to science or education or the army. And I'm afraid they've already been stolen, you know, and they're not going anywhere. Either way, we write a law or we start an army of generals with a special confiscation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u76	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u77	Not for all people this law now applies to every human being, every Ukrainian, my mother, for example. Well, start with the officers, the generals. It'll be easy for you. How much money you'll raise in the army itself, you won't believe it! And the tanks will go, and the BTRs will go into battle.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, there is still a requirement. Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I would like to address this address to all Ukrainian citizens, to explain the position of many factions, not only the faction of the opposition bloc, which does not support the bill. And to break apart the several myths discussed by the drafters. Does he touch Yanukovich and his surroundings? Of course not. There's no last names. Does it apply to each individual citizen or businessman in our country? Of course, yes. What's the point of the bill? The bill is designed to destroy the foundations of the constitutional order. The principle of presumption of innocence is in motion. Before the court's conviction, you can confiscate anything, the person who controls the law enforcement authorities. If you find this charge illegal, for example, before the European Court of Justice, in the Supreme Court, you will be reimbursed at any time for the value they deem necessary. You don't have to hide with revolutionary slogans when you adopt this bill. The bill is aimed at re-distribution of property and property. Whose property? Probably the ones who lobby him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u80	One minute from the will of the people, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u81	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. We have a helipad nearby. What did you do to get this helicopter site back into state ownership? It's Yanukovich's fortune. What did you do with "Megigrier", "Shitwork" and other Yanukovich objects? You can't do anything under your nose but swing around and look for everything. And today, for example, there's a tender, there's got to be 400 million for a fire truck. And one company was allowed to do so. And according to some insider information, a million dollars per car. That's where the money is. I called that one in a million examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u82	The People's Front is Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u83	When we adopted Law 4057 in our first reading two months ago, three hours later Russian channels showed Yanukovich, who shouted that his rights were being violated. I'm talking to all the normal people, to the viewers first of all, you've just heard a lot of lies. Heard about some sort of raid. They've heard of some property. The law is exclusively distributed to the funds of the already arrested Yanuković and his surroundings. I'm talking to all offshore fighters. These costs are on offshore accounts in the Savings Bank, $1.5 billion. And don't lie to people. You'd better tell them that you're personally motivated to have Yanukovich get them back and you get the commission. I absolutely believe that we will overcome this lie. I'm sure Yanukovic won't get that money. And I'm sure a healthy force will win. And that's enough lying. Rather, tell your motives for lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All those who wanted to speak. Let's move on. We have the following bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the issue of the cleansing of power. Come on, we've had a discussion, let's move on to making decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's have another vote. Colleagues! It's just getting into the agenda of the day session, society. I'm asking you, People's Front, one more vote. Another vote, the clearance of power 2695. [[B in m in s a l in]] With all, with all, no questions, no association.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u85	[[From the Hall]] Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u86	This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote for him?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u87	[[From the Hall]] We want to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u88	Then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u89	[[From the Hall]] No, let's talk about it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u90	Colleagues, let's put it to a vote and try what's going on with him. Guys, let's do some very important things, let's see if we can run a rating on it. Is there any backup? Please, please. So 2695. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Cleansing of Power. This is a common position, and yesterday we discussed it to include the Constitutional Court in its deliberations. The important question is, let us unite and vote on it. If you support this proposal, give me a rating vote. After all, we don't need a rating here, we can put as many times as we need. 2695 is a day-to-day session. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:20:33]] For 218. Come on, guys. It's working. I ask you to prepare for the vote. One minute, please. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go. In one minute, I'd like the deputies to call in the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, one minute and we'll be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, let us not defraud the Ukrainian people. Now that we're talking about what we're saying is that we're going to vote on the Law on Purification of Power and we're going to clean up the government, I have a very simple question: why is it that two years after the Dignity Revolution, the old composition of the CBC, which forged Yanukovich's election, is still working? Why did the six judges of the Constitutional Court who had repealed the Constitution in 2010 help Yanukovich to usurp power, why were they still not removed, why did they work? The answer is one: Because today’s authorities have agreed with the previous authorities. Why do most of those serving Yanukovich sit in this room today? Because they made a deal. Therefore, it is not necessary to deceive people with illustrations. The real illustration will only be when the President stops making deals with the Yanukovich gang, the Yanukovic oligarchs, and when those who served Yanukovitch stop serving Dustenk because they served, they forged the polls of Dustenka. Janukovich, now the same thing is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u92	Colleagues, we don't discuss, we vote, we make decisions. We're short five votes. Better secure the people in the hall. Mustafa just got out, put him back in the hall. Mustafa, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. And I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Cleansing of Power, along with Alternatives (No. 2695). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:22:58]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. Hello. Included in the agenda of the day session. Next. By factions, please show me. Let's see the factions. Thank you. So the next 4781. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration. One minute, Minister. Please, Reva. One minute, I'd like you to base the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the two bills that will be proposed for today's session of the Supreme Council refer to the demands of miners who are now starving in the walls of the Ministry of Social Policy. The point is that, starting in 2015, we do not have recalculations of regression payments to miners. In order to do this, we need to include and adopt two bills: It's 4015, which restores these regressive payments, and 4781, which ensures this possibility. I ask you very much to support these bills and to include them in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! So I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Society, it's not a discussion. Come on, this is the vote and then. Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote. The People's Front says they won't take part in the vote and that puts all the next votes in question. One minute, please, Maxim Burbak. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u95	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Although we have heard many reasons why we should not vote for the return of Yanukovich's money to Ukraine's budget, where there will be funding and defence, and miners, and teachers, and socially vulnerable groups of the population. I hereby state the position of the People's Front: we will not vote for any bill, because the main thing is the country's defence. We need to protect the country and then vote for the benefits. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote anyway. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration (number 4781). Please vote. Please vote. [[11:26:04]] For-188. It's not a decision, society. Dear colleagues! Let me put each, we can put them on. The next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" (4015). Someone's going to justify it, 4015? Please turn on the microphone. Chicken, chicken, please. Turn on the microphone, one minute chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the national parliament, I propose that we now stop this session room from holding words and obsessing thoughts, and vote on this very important bill and include it in the agenda. You have just failed to get into the agenda of the day’s issue of regression for those miners who rot in mines, for those metallurgy workers who spent their health near domain stoves. What are you doing, don't do politics? One thing, the other doesn't apply, and we can't mix it up. The question of pooling the two funds is very urgent for the state. A year ago, you and I decided to stop corruption in these funds, social insurance, and execution, health, and industrial accidents. But the laws, the laws, are not being enforced today. And that's why I'm proposing today, and I'm asking the U.K. Attorney General's Office to intervene in the situation, break criminal cases. Who is to blame, who sabotages the execution of these, the most powerful and important to the people, the social ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u98	Thank you. I'll ask you, in the morning it was a requirement to put it on the agenda. And I'm now proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance No. 4015. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:28:22]] For 210 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we were able to get into the agenda. What other law? What other law? Was that what you asked for or not, boys? Come on, tell me what other law? Papiev. I've been papiing for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u99	Thank you. I am convinced that Law 4015 should unite the Hall, it applies primarily to increasing social benefits in social insurance funds as a percentage of the increase in wages in previous years. You know this social pay upgrade was suspended in 2015. If we adopt this law today, we will increase the social benefits, the strains of the disabled who have received and lost their health in production. First of all, you look at those people who are now starving in the Ministry of Social Policy -- that's 250,000 people who are affected by this law. Let's restore social justice. Moreover, the government supports this law, and this will increase the social benefits of this category of citizens who have lost their health by 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u100	Bill number?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u101	4015. Act 4015. Let's support the disabled -- this is the first law that applies to our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u102	Thank you. I've just put it to a vote, I can put it again, I'm putting it to the vote for inclusion in the agenda 4015, who supports the vote, please. [[11:30:24]] For 219 219, yes. It's not a decision you make, dear fellows. Dear colleagues! We have all the demands that were made in the morning by factions' heads were put to the vote, some passed, some failed. Now we're going to the next chapter of the agenda -- this is the first reading. And I'm looking at the first law, which is, the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the process of land collection when it comes to social needs or for reasons of social necessity. 2155. The drafters ask to consider it in a simplified procedure, which supports the proposal, please vote. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[11:31:27]] For-68 There is no political will in short supply, they require a full procedure, and we move on to a full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Podlisecki Lev Theophilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u103	Honourable National Deputies, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land for social purposes or for reasons of social need. This bill is called upon to significantly simplify the provision of land for the construction of critical transport infrastructures, energy and national security and defence needs, the creation of natural-preservation areas and other socially significant objectives. The projects are largely long-range and therefore a large number of land areas that need to be addressed. As we know, the procedure for repurchasing land for social needs or for reasons of social necessity since the adoption of the law has shown that, unfortunately, it is not effective. I would like to remind you that, for the 2012 and 2012 Euro-2012 championships, there have been appropriate changes to legislation to address these problems. Sadly, though, they were not effective. Yes, we know that the 2012 championship was many years ago, but not all objects are still in use, not only because of financial issues but, above all, because of land issues. For the huge objects needed by the nations, such as the power lines that can span 500 miles [500 km], the problems are enormous. And the practice over the last few years has worked, and it has essentially been the basis for preparing this bill and addressing most of the issues that arise in the process. What are the main novices? The first, and most important, novelty: a separate procedure is being introduced to provide land for the purpose of social redemption. The law that is in force today provides for, especially focusing on private property ransoms. At the same time, though, we understand well that when we have large linear objects, they pass through the lands of completely different forms of property. It's also private property, it's collective property, it's government property, it's other property. And there are a lot of issues that are not settled. Therefore, it is suggested that one procedure be followed accordingly, which will apply to all types of land. Another important novelty. We're putting an end to the pre-choice procedure. What does that mean? Three stages are foreseen for the removal of land for social needs, where the first stage is the selection of the land area to place the object, then the permits to develop the removal and then the grant. What do you mean, "from the land"? The first stage is the output of the land area. This is when you build, for example, an electrical transmission line and you have to go through all 500 kilometers of the line, and you have to make a prior agreement with each of us whether we can design it in your area. It's actually a very long procedure. In the first two stages, the same documents are given twice the same. And the same officials are looking at it. Thus, it is suggested that these steps should be reduced and that only two steps should be foreseen. Today we have a big one. Today, we have the only case left to buy land for social purposes when three stages of land provision are under way. In any case, the final solution comes after land issues are settled with citizens, they get compensation, land users get damages, losses, and that closes the question. I will note that it is still a very important issue of the value and value of the land that will be eliminated for the purpose of social needs. It is in the current legislation that, unfortunately, there is (I don't know if there is intentionally) an evaluation procedure that is comparable. So in fact, most of the people, the owners of the land, who. I don't know what I'm In the lands where these linear objects will pass, they do not want to be estranged because they are not satisfied. So this is where it's being corrected, this bill is correcting and correcting this problem. For example, around large cities, like Kiev and so on, we have to estimate land only by capitalizing on the rent they can get on rations, for example, a very cheap price comes out, and a banal owner refuses the ransom. In general, it is easier to finance implementation and preparation, and to assess land. These are the main novels. We understand that this bill is very complex, it touches many acts of land legislation6 is also the Earth Code, the Land Authority Act, the Land Assessment Act, the State Cadastre Act. But we are convinced that the second reading can be processed and taken into account all the wishes and observations that national MPs have. I would like to pay particular attention to the copyright team that participated in the drafting of the bill. This is the same: Martin Andriy Hennadiyovich, PhD in Economic Sciences, Head of the Department of Land Management, Earthly Design of the National University of Bioresources and Environmental Use of Ukraine, Shevchuk Ivan Stepanovich, Deputy Chief of Capital Construction of NAC, National Energy Company Ukrenergo and Pacenko Evgen Aleksioyovich, Head of the Land Administration Department of the National Energy Company Ukrenergo. So once again, I would like to go to the entire room and support this bill in the first reading so that we can unlock many infrastructure projects and start building power lines, roads, roads, and roads, and, in particular, this will apply to defensive fortifications on the border of Ukraine. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u104	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The word for the report is given. I'm sorry, yes, please sign up for the question. We're fully operational. Excuse me, thank you very much. I was distracted. The recording is done on a question to the reporter. Thank you again, Mr. Pinzenik, for reminding me of our complete procedure. Please don't distract us during the session of our other colleagues. And Mrs. Novak, please, your question to the reporter. Mrs. Natale, you have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u105	No, not included. Dear reporter, would you please say that the simplified procedure for taking land into investment projects is not going to lead to such cases as the construction of a helipad on the Parkway when the land was being transported by engineering infrastructure, and in the end, we just got a business center, except for a helipad? How can you use your law to prevent such cases?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u106	Please, Mr. Lev, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u107	You know, today's procedure has built it. Of course, if there's a huge desire to abuse, you can use any law that it's not, in order to execute those criminal decisions that they want to implement. But it has given procedure in fact, allowing it to simplify the construction of really needed objects for the State. Speaking of Kiev, we all know how important the road is in Kiev. And because of such a complex procedure, the design of the road cannot even begin, since even before it is designed, the first stage of reconciliation with each landowner of the possible future removal of the land will have to be reached. Appropriately, this is the first stage. Then the next stage, that's after the design, that's the validation, and the third is the ransom. So this procedure is very complicated. Of course, I can't guarantee abuse, but it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u108	Thank you. Please turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Reporter! We realize that it is very difficult for small cities, towns, and villages to make a plan of zoning and a master plan. In this room, we have discussed a lot about the question that the city authorities are ignoring the creation of such plans by the generals only in order to freely treat and isolate the land. And the example that my colleague Mrs. Novak gave about the helicopter range is very revealing. We had a very serious discussion on the faction today, both this and the following bills that touched the land. And they all decided that they could be supported in the first reading on one condition, if it is stated that this does not affect the capital city of Kiev and the population of more than 500,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u110	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u111	We can of course look at the second reading of any comments. I really don't understand why it has to be limited in this way, because, well, for such big cities, especially for the capital of Ukraine, building the same road is a big project. And look. And what about the master plan. But in fact, when a power line is being built from one large energy object to another, and it passes through a populace, and there is no master plan in that populated area, the whole state and the vast object, respectively, are dependent on that small populace. Even if it's a big city and it's going through some part of that territory, and we're going to make this observation, I don't think it's entirely objective because it's not always possible to do this. But let's talk about the second reading, and in the first reading, we have to accept it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u112	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Dombrowski, "Peter Dustock's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u113	I ask you to pass the word to Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u114	Microphone, please, Mr. Baggins.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleague! As we considered this bill on the Committee on Agricultural Policy, we asked you to predict the extent of compensation to those owners of land that could be eliminated if it were to build an object of state importance, whether it was a van or a LEP, or some other extreme need for infrastructure objects by the State. How is this provided, and is it particularly appropriate, where in rural areas money is returned for use in the area and in cities that are large? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u116	Please, Mr. Lion's microphone for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u117	In today's legislation, in fact, there is only one method of assessing the cost of compensation, and this method is called, that is, it is. which refers to an estimate of the rent, how much, what it's worth. And in fact, in this bill, we're expanding the possibility of involving different evaluators and using different evaluators, including a comparison method where we can most effectively estimate. So if we have an area there or an object going through an area where there are expensive areas and they are very valuable, of course they should have a premium rating. And according to how the area next door is going to cost a large sum of money, so this area that's going to be removed for social needs is going to be adequately evaluated. I think this bill actually solves this problem that you're worried about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we now have a report from the Professional Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. I invite you to report to the committee's deputy chairman, Alexander Bakumenko. He's got five minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u119	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered a bill aimed at simplifying the procedure for the removal of land for social purposes or for reasons of social need. In its consideration of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee noted that the current procedure for the removal of land for social or social purposes was very complex and needed to be simplified. In order to address this problem, the authors propose to cancel the procedure for selecting the location of the objects and to harmonize the requirements for agreeing on land documentation with the institution in the formation of land for social or social needs. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill could be based on the comments and suggestions made. In view of the above, on February 2, this year, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposed bill to be adopted on a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u120	Thank you very much. According to the protocol, we now have a question to the coconspirator. And I'm asking you to sign up for these questions. No questions asked by the co-rapporteur. Thank you, Your Honor. And now, according to the order, we have the factions of factions. Please sign up from all the MPs and factions on these performances. Please, I give the floor to Mr. Kulinich of the Rebirth Group. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u121	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, because today the procedure for taking the land into infrastructure is very difficult. The same questions agree twice, even three times, and more times, and all of this greatly increases construction periods, which is very important. In particular, so far there are unnecessary rules in the Earth Code regarding the approval of the Supreme Council, such as the removal of particularly valuable lands. And this is because the earthly code clearly defines the purpose for which these lands are to be made available. The Supreme Council should be engaged, in my opinion, in legislation, not in the provision of land. And why this unnecessary agreement is incomprehensible to no one. It is very true in this bill that the extent of damage caused by the alienation of land should be determined in accordance with the Land Assessment Act. To date, the government’s level of damage is very low, and this violates the rights of people who own such land, and people have a fair right to adequate compensation. So given the above, I propose that, honourable colleagues, I support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. Please turn on the microphone from the Motherland faction, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u123	Please give the floor to the expert of our faction on the land relations of Deputy Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u124	Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u125	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, today the period of development of cities, villages, the period of development of territorial communities, of course, needs to be improved by land legislation. Today too regulated land legislation when, for example, we want to build roads in a united territorial community, and this territorial community will first have to pay for this detailed plan, or planning schemes, or zoning. If we are talking about what we need, for example, to make a road trip, where it will go through the land of state property, municipal and private, we will also have to make informed decisions by one council, and then they will be approved by another council, and a decision will be taken, perhaps after the project is approved by the Land Authority and the Third Council. So this bill proposes a general simplification of the ransom order, and this is a very important and positive moment. The overall simplification of the project itself by the land administration, where the decision-making board is going to compensate for, let's say, the alienation of the land area is this local council. There's an increasing number of those organizations that are going to be doing the assessment of compensation, and the expert evaluation, and the comparative, and the others, and the private, and the state, so we're increasing. But at the moment, I'm personally concerned about the change to the City Activity Regulation Act. I understand when we talk to you about transportation infrastructure (roads, bridges, solutions) and this is necessary for both the city of Kiev and Lviv, as well as for small cities (roadways or road construction). I'm concerned about the energy infrastructure. I understand we need plumbing. I understand that we need lines of electricity, where we can spend even in villages where they don't have them today, pipelines. But I'm here today, and we've decided on a faction that we're going to vote on the basis, and we're going to apply and pick up those lobbying things about oil and gas. Oil pipelines, gas pipelines. wires, power lines that will be extended by private people, or they'll be from private companies. That's why we're settling this question. And I'm asking my colleagues to vote on the basis and we're going to make corrections so that we don't see lobbyist things here today that are impeding us to discuss. And on the committee, we discussed this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u126	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Soloj Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u127	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, Repent. Dear colleagues, I think today is one of the priority issues that should be in the order of the day, which is a serious boost in the development of the Ukrainian economy, in the creation of new jobs, in the involvement of investment, in the development of small and medium-sized businesses. If this process is accompanied by infrastructure development all over the world, it is unfortunately quite the other way around in Ukraine. Tell us, does any of us today know a European state that is part of the European Union, which does not have at least one automobile? I don't think there's a country like that. The only country that has no automobile today in the territory of the European Union is the country of Ukraine. Is it possible to build a bus in our country today, even with the resources? I think the answer is clear that it is virtually impossible to do so because of the restrictions that are currently in force legislation today, particularly in the area of removal and land-use provision for social needs. Today this process is completely blocked by the current legislation and, clearly, we as parliamentarians have to do everything we can to make this mechanism as simple as possible to enable the authorities of local self-government, the central authorities of the executive branch to remove land, particularly for the construction of new roads, and I am convinced that sooner or later we will have the issue of the construction of the first carbage in our country. And so when we're looking at this bill today in the hall, we have to say that it's extremely important, it definitely needs to be accepted, although there are a few observations, it needs to be adopted in the first reading with a further reading of it. But unfortunately, we clearly understand that we don't have a vote after discussing the law on special confiscation today. However, given the relevance of the bill, I propose that it be discussed and that the decision be postponed until there are enough votes in the room, since the bill is extremely important for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, statements from political factions have been completed. Now we're going to have a chapter on Deputies. I'm at the chairman's office at 12:15. And now I'm asking the National Deputies to record a statement by the National Deputies. Please record. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I, for my part, also on behalf of the Self-Help faction, would like to say that the faction will really support its colleague, the author of the bill. And we call on everyone today in the hall or on any other day when we have enough deputies to support this bill. This bill really stands for the protection of people, because this bill introduces the possibility of actually assessing the value of the land, where people can get the real money that is defined by the market. So to this day, I want to remind you again, there was only one way that we could, according to some methodology, determine that cost. I would also like to support colleagues who have noted the importance of this bill to encourage investment in infrastructure. Because today, in our country, this is not the only area that needs substantial funds, Ukraine's infrastructure is not responding and is lagging behind the infrastructure of other countries for decades, and this does not allow both the competitiveness of our country and the economic development of our businesses, the entrepreneurs of Ukraine's transit status. It is also important to note that, as the experience of cities adopting the Euro-2012 has shown, when we are in the process of carrying out major projects, international events, we have some deadlines for the preparation of infrastructure. For example, as Lvov’s experience showed, it took us over a year to buy land for social purposes, pass Crimea and Rome, various courts, and arrange with those or other owners. This bill simplifies the procedure, but this does not mean that it becomes uncontrollable or deprives landowners of the right to maintain compensation that corresponds to the market. I also wanted to point out that this is also a step toward stimulating investment activities in our cities’ communities, small towns, or large cities. We know that in tens of years of independence, most of the land was either shredded or transferred to the use of certain influence groups, MPs and so forth. And when an investor comes in today and wants to build either a sports complex or a school or a kindergarten, there's no land for him. Again with this bill, we are taking a step towards simplifying the procedure and making it possible to involve such an investor, to raise the necessary funds to implement an investment project. So I urge everyone to support this bill and to work out all necessary for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u132	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, you know, I'd like to go on with the last words of the last speaker, where it was said about investors for kindergartens, sports complexes and other very important questions for people. But there's only one very big problem, unfortunately, today all the gaps in urban legislation that already exist, right? They're used just to make sure that instead of building gardens and sports complexes, there's skyscrapers, malls, parks are cut off, and people under windows put 25 floors, there'll be hotels under the windows, there'll be people under the casino windows, that's what's really going on in the country right now. It's me that's a little bit of reality, because there's been a lot of talk in the Supreme Council about raising the economy, about both. But the reality is that today in every big city in the country, and especially in the capital, where I'm from, in fact, there's a huge problem that the building mafia, simply, controls the organs of local self-government and uses the gaps in urban legislation to create total vacchanals. They don't give a shit about people's rights and build anything, anywhere, no matter what. And in fact, the problem with this bill is that it creates additional gaps in urban legislation that will further increase these problems of illegal forgetfulness. They talk about social needs and so on, in fact, there are a lot of examples now when, under the so - called social needs, land areas are allocated, where they then appear. Not, for example, the embassy that it's built under, but a shopping centre that doesn't have an infrastructure project, but, you know, there are 5 apartments formally, I'm sorry, there are 5 offices formally, and there are 10 floors of the residential complex, and there's also someone under the windows. This is what's really going on in the country. And now you're offering to make it even easier. No questions asked. If you're talking about roads, it's the only logic in all of your conversations that roads need to be built, there's no question: write a bill exclusively, just under the road, everything, without any generalization of the so-called social needs, when the land will be set aside for social needs, and then this land will be used, for example, to build another air conditioning plant, as recently happened in one of the cities of Kiev, where the communal land was issued to a utility free of charge, and then transferred to the Roshen factory. That's actually what's being proposed right now. Therefore, this bill cannot be explicitly supported in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, it is difficult to disagree with the previous speaker about the need to fight the land mafia, and this must be done. But I'd like to share that the Mafia fight -- in order to do that, we've created enough tools to perform our functions, and, on the other hand, we have to do everything we can to strategically develop important state infrastructure projects. In this room we hear very often: the use of Ukraine’s vast transit potential. We are talking about the need to integrate Ukraine's energy infrastructure into the infrastructure of the European Union. So I can tell you as an expert: if there is no decision to simplify land tenure for strategic state projects, all of this will be on paper. Because if these rules were to exist and operate in the state, we would have had a long trip around the capital and the capital would not have died in a traffic collapse. If we had these simplified land management standards for strategic state projects, we wouldn't have had to build high-voltage power lines for decades to optimize the transmission of electricity between nuclear stations. I would like to illustrate that we all know that the European Union has created the European Energy Union, creating its completely new optimized energy infrastructure. And we need to find our place in the Ukrainian gas transport network, an electricity network so that we can export electricity, so that we can reverse the gas in sufficient quantities from European markets. To do that, we need a modern gas, an electrical infrastructure. To do this, we need to build appropriate strategic roads. So this bill is critical to the development of the state. Yes, he has a point. We discussed it on the committee, and I would like to say that between the first and the second readings we have the opportunity to discuss and discuss all of these things. And to the end. About investment. International experts have concluded that if. If Ukraine had solved the problem of land tenure for large investment state projects without a corruption component, the amount of investment could have doubled or tripled into the Ukrainian economy. That's why I think this bill is necessary. I urge all the national deputies to vote in the first reading and to discuss it, then to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Babak Alona Valerievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u136	Please give the floor to the national deputy Eutushka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u137	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I want to appeal to my colleague Yuri from Freedom to say that, Mr. Yuri, we remember, in the walls of Parliament, we have not been able to prolong the possibility without a plan of zoning and the Master Plan to allocate land to the ATO soldiers, to those people of the social categories who need it. Why? Because obviously we see in this bill the processes that are taking place in the capital itself. I agree with the previous statement that this is a very important law, and we also have certain warnings about it. We want the city of Kiev as its capital, as well as the cities of regional importance, which have a population of 500 or more, to be excluded from this list. The other one. Of course, the requirements of part three and part four of this article do not extend to the use and replacement of targeted land to accommodate linear transport and energy infrastructures: expensive bridges, estacads, oil, gas, and plumbing, power lines, and telecommunications. We also want to rule out the last few words that apply to oil, gas, plumbing, and linear electricity. That's why I call on, fellow honourable Members, to vote on this bill that allows these cities to develop economies, to develop other sectors, to build electricity lines that rural, rural, urban heads of small district cities can't do right now because there's a ban. And we're also talking about the state executive branch of power from which we can transfer, if we vote on the bill, from the district government when we reduce the number of documents, the authorization to approve the technical documentation in the district government. This also minimizes all risks. I ask my colleague to vote in the first reading, to take a joint position and to work on the second reading, taking into account the comments that I have just made, and to vote on the whole law that will work very effectively for the development of communities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u138	Thank you. And the last performance is the Smug Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd like to address you first. You can see how many people are in this room right now. And after Alexander Dombrowski's performance, you could never speak to anyone again. The performance was extremely powerful and, they say, clearly as a specialist, placed dots above "and." But we ask you to make a signal vote, considering that this bill can't be cut today, toss it back somewhere. I ask you to make sure that there are people in the room and then put them to a vote. If there are no votes, move it to the next week, the vote will be considered as one that has already been discussed. Thank you. Or after lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u140	Gregory Mikhailovich, I share your emotions and actually think about what to do about it. After the People's Front has made a statement that it won't vote, it's really at risk. But I also understand and hear the words of Victor Pinzenik all the time, and others who say that we can't go into the matter without consideration, it's a direct and gross violation of the law that can then question him. Dear colleagues, and one more. Obviously, there's no big problem if it's rejected, you can transpose the bill if it's ready, and it's even more valid than it is carrying. So let's make a decision. Colleagues, if we go that way, then we can't organize the Council's work, so no bill can be passed. So, colleagues, today, in order to get out of this colossus, we're going to be making decisions about the deviations that we have in the hall. But now, according to this bill, I'm going to do, of course, ratings, but I'm also going to do the voting. Yesterday's ratifications, international agreements, it was the only exception, the only one, I'm stressing to you, was the exception to yesterday's ratification. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. He's still legally entitled to the closing word, the closing word. And I would like to conclude by inviting Podlisecki Lev Theophilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u141	I would like to thank the hall for the very fine discussion of the bill in full reading. There's been a lot of thought, all the thoughts in the vast majority, especially the people who read the bill, they're positive, they're supportive. Of course, there are observations that we are willing to work on for a second reading. I would like to take away all the fears that we are making worse the rights of land owners who will be alienated for social purposes. In fact, they're only getting better because we're giving them the opportunity to use any estimate of the land area, including the comparable one, unlike today's situation, when there's only an estimate based on the rent income, that it's actually possible that it's been put into law today in order to buy money for the social needs. So we're here to improve the situation for the people. So do we. You can call this bill anti-corruption, because we're cleaning up one phase of agreement -- the passing of agreement. And actually, from the 3rd stage in the 2nd stage, the same documents are given to the same organs, and the same people are checking, which is what they are. Exorcising the opportunity for corruption to receive funds is eliminated. And about the warnings that this can be used by different private companies for others than the social needs of land removal. It's actually, well, there's urban constraints and it's not possible for the improvements to be made, the bill, with the improved standards, to be used for other purposes than for the removal of land of social needs. Now, last of all, I'd like to speak to the chairman. Mr. Andrey, I'd like us to hold a vote and leave it to the next plenary meeting and vote on the procedure. Mr. Andrey! To procedure as a very important bill. And they voted after the talk. And that would be fair, honestly, especially after we've already had 10 bills today, or up to 10 bills, we've voted on them yesterday. So it would be objective and right. So once again, I urge you to vote for the basis, if today is the day, if not then to vote on another day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u142	Leo Theophilovich, I really did have the first exception made yesterday, which concerns international agreements. For the first time, an exception was made for us to vote today. I'm going to say my profound belief that once we get into the "after discussion" system, we're not going to be able to set up the Council's legislative work. This is, unfortunately, the reality that we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'll take responsibility, I'll put him to the vote. We'll find a way to move him if he doesn't, Leo. It's me, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for the removal of land when it comes to social needs or on grounds of social necessity (No.2155) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. All right, rating vote. Please vote. Let's vote ratings, vote. [[12:15:15.]] For 114 I'm voting on a committee proposal based on 2155. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:15:44]] For 115 The decision is not made. The bill is rejected. I'll make every effort to move it and we'll look at it again, and it'll be a full contribution. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I hereby declare a recess for half an hour. We're meeting at 12:50 after a break to continue our work. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, 12:50. Time spent for a break is over. People's deputies are welcome to come and take up jobs. Please approach the rostrum to continue blocking the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you on an important matter. May I have your attention in the hall? According to the Rules, when there are orders to revoke decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we should make them urgent, according to the Rules. I have just received a draft decision from the Committee repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 31 May on second reading adoption and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act amending Chapter XX, Section XX, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on facilitating the development of the market in used means of transport. I could not sign this law until this important decision is considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we need to discuss this in detail. We need to discuss this in detail. Don't provoke me. Next: a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the law of 2506a as a whole, as well as 256. 07a, as well as the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. These are the four decrees by which we should take the decision of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to apologize to the representatives of the agar committee. We need to put this up as an urgent matter. And I, with your permission, will give Buckumenko one minute to speak. Where is he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the people's deputies of the Agrarian Committee, I ask you to withdraw the agrarian bill, which is in the order of the day, because there are no deputies and to vote. And to move these vast bills to the next plenary week on Tuesday or Thursday. Please, we're addressing all the members of the Agrarian Committee, please do this for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u145	Thank you. We heard you. What's more, there's got to be a review of those bills right now. Dear colleagues, this is not a discussion. I'll talk to you, we'll have a discussion now, everyone can speak. You know, I give my word to all who have. Dear colleagues, I ask you to go to the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 31 May on second reading adoption and, in general, as a law, the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on facilitating the development of the market for used means of transport. There are thoughts that we should consider this in a simplified way. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[12:56:36]] For-50 There is the political will of the hall to consider the bill in full. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please. Holy Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the First Deputy, before the Day of Judgment, to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Quiet in the hall, please. An important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, such matters are not required under a reduced procedure and a separate procedural decision is not required for this plenary. And now on the substance of the matter: the committee at its meeting on 15 June 2016 reviewed the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 31 May 2016. On adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter XX, Subsection 5 of the Code of Taxation on the Promotion of the Market in Used Means of Transport. Imported by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Saint Dmitr, registration 3251-P since 02.06-2016. But his application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 June 2016 to repeal the above-mentioned decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure for the second reading of drafts were violated. According to the material presented, the draft Law amending the "Transitional Regulations" of the Tax Code (registration 3251) was considered under the second reading procedure, adopted in the second reading and in general, according to a transcript of the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 31 May 2016. "For" was voted by 237 people's deputies, during the consideration of the bill of motions to the chairman with an application for violation of the Rules by the National Deputies and, in particular, by the People's Deputies of Saints. In accordance with article 48, part 8, of the Rules, the Committee adopted the conclusion on the draft Decree 3251-P, in which it proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt or reject the draft Decree by vote. My colleagues, once again, I'm reminding you that this is the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u147	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u148	The issue of such rulings is dealt with in accordance with the 48 Rules of Procedure and there is no need for a separate vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u149	Thank you for your clarification. Contrary to the will of the Hall, the Rules provide for consideration of the reduced procedure, but I hope for an active and lively discussion. I'm asking you to include a two-in-pro, two-again on the bill. Please sign up. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u151	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my lords of honor! The Act on the Reduction of Excise is or is not the only law in a year and a half of the Supreme Council that directs money to people in the country. And so any delay in signing this law is actually a crime, a direct crime against people and taking money from their pockets directly. So let's give people the money. And today this law must be broken, this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u152	Thank you. Goodenko Vitaly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Guzenko Vitaly, 92 constituency. I have a request, a question to the Head of the Supreme Council. Today everyone said that there would be an agrarian day in Parliament today. And since we have very few deputies today, I just have a question for the Head of the Supreme Council: When will the committee pass Bill 3851-1? This is one agrarian law that will govern all the agrarians of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u154	Thank you. I'm just going to respond because I had a call. There has just been a request from the agrarian committee to remove the issue of the agrarian block. I respected the agrarian committee and made regulations under the Rules that do not require inclusion, which should be considered as soon as they reach us. And so I'm going to ask these questions that need to be addressed right now. Thank you very much. And I give the word of Woznoku Yuri Volodymyrovich, "The People's Front." Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u156	Dear friends! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. With no exaggeration, millions of Ukrainians await acceptance of this castle and signature by Mr. Parubi and President of Ukraine Prashenko. All of Mr. Saints' attempts to overthrow the bill, to postpone, I'm sure they won't find support in our hall, so we all understand very well how difficult it is for a simple Ukrainian to live today, this law will allow you to actually import cars from abroad that will be much cheaper. So, dear friends, I'm convinced that we're going to orderly overthrow Mr. Saintess' proposal, and Andrew Volodymyrovich will sign it, and the president won't hesitate to sign the bill. So the Holy One, no, the Excise Act, yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u157	Please. I'll give you my word, company! I'll give my word to everyone. Golovko came up. Please, give me the date. But for three minutes, give me a full performance. And then I'll give Yvchenka, just like three minutes, a full performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u158	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164th constituency. Dear voters, that. What we're looking at today is the very effort of the AIS Group, represented by Dmitri Svaš, to block the signing of the Law, which we, with great powers, pushed through Parliament, which is the co-author of this bill, which many deputies have signed, finally to represent the Ukrainians, who unfortunately cannot today. They don't have the ability to buy decent cars. With our bill, we have now been able to reduce excise duties on cars used by 2010, which will now be available to the vast majority of Ukrainians to buy cars. Unfortunately, we do. According to data, Ukraine takes its last place by the term, the age of cars. Our cars are on average over 18 years old, the worst in Europe. For the per capita, the purchasing power of cars has fallen in recent years, in principle, from 600,000 to 200, then. Up to 200,000 and it's usually hand in hand sold, new cars just buy 5,000 a year. So people have no money, we've become one of the poorest nations and a nation in Europe, we can't buy expensive cars, instead of lobbyists, the Vasadze group that is blocking this decision today, so that they won't enter into force, it doesn't allow normal prices for people to buy cars that are quality European cars. Our law, which we fought for so long, was finally passed. Today, our task is to fail this decision, not to give, not to allow, however, the Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich, we hope that you will back up and sign this law and give it to the President of Ukraine to sign the bill, so that this law will finally come into force and enable Ukrainians to buy cars at affordable prices, because in Europe, average cars cost 3,000 -- 4,000 euros -- we have 10, 15,000 dollars, it is the same time that the Ukrainian nation is one of the poorest. That's why it's unacceptable. Now our task is to sign this bill as quickly as possible and to bring it into force, and we must reject the Holy One's efforts and decide not to fail and vote. So today I call on MPs not to support this decision, because it's lobbyist, it's calculated against the people, and today we have to allow people to drive on safe, quality cars, not ours on the red, on the metal rolls that unfortunately the Ukrainians are driving today. Therefore, the request of the deputies does not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u160	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look what's happening in Parliament. We're breaking the laws on raising the social standards proposed by Fatherland, 4316. We failed the laws against increasing funding, and I mean, of course, you're against increasing the funding of all the academics, including academics, pedagogical sciences, medical sciences, who went to the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday and covered the streets of Gruszewski. Today, we do not order the daily laws that today require the people of Ukraine, the Law, for example, on inheritance. 30 percent of the land is not accounted for or taxed in local budgets. We have not asked about the return of land to the territorial communities for a year and a half, and everyone is waiting. We don't ask about taxation. Instead, we agree with you, we make decisions to reduce excise duties on used cars so that our citizens can use the same car, but at prices equal to those in Poland, Slovakia or Germany. What Is Here? There's a decision from the Rebirth Group. So I want to ask them if they advocate people's interests, people's interests, whether they advocate corporate interests. If so, let them come out and tell us what kind of corporation it is. Do they combine their professional activities? I think it's very important for us today to fail this decision and finally say, if there's an oligarchic group in the Supreme Council, this Parliament will no longer be able to do anything. If we have passed a law on people, we have no right to take a step back. Thank you. Please let everyone fail the decision and show that when we are truly united around this law, we can still make a consolidated decision today. Instead, Mr. Andrey, I ask you to have laws today that are very important, which today requires, including an agrarian environment, that you really remove from the agenda. You don't have to play the agrarians today. We've already failed the first law, we don't need to. The agrarian complex provides almost 15 billion, 37 percent of the gross export proceeds. He feeds the whole country today. Let us be balanced when we form the order of the day, especially when we put laws to the vote. And this law, when we were to make a decision on land alienation for social reasons, is very important for the development of our communities, cities, united villages and villages. We've failed it, and now we're going to think about how to do it again quickly. Dear colleagues, let us unite. And "Paternity" will always support such things as that of a particular citizen and man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u161	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Láška is given the word Chižmaru. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u162	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Yuri Chižmar. Clearly, this decision that is being made today is a lobbying factor when some MPs lobby for companies that are given the benefits of manufacturing. But I would like to point out that today, for most Ukrainians, it's not a luxury, it's a way to make some money today, to drive someone, to serve their own business. And that's why the cloudy prices that we have on motor vehicles today, in no case do they allow them to do their own thing, and make some money, because those social standards that we have in Ukraine, they don't at all meet the needs of today. Our faction will definitely not support this decision. But I would like to remind you of another bill that was introduced today by the government to the Supreme Council under number 4683, where in support of the same lobbying, well, the coffeehouses say a car group, they want to set a standard when all cars that are going to be converted into gas installations have to be agreed on by the manufacturer. I mean, if it's not a Ukrainian machine, you have to get it abroad. Obviously, most Ukrainian citizens who can't pay for gasoline today, 23-24 bracelets already today, who can't pay diesel for 20 dollars today, are going to gas institutions, and that gas is Ukrainian production, it's produced in Ukraine, and it's paid for 8 dollars, 7 dollars. But we and this opportunity are cutting them off today just to support the lobbying interests of one of the companies that, in 25 years, did not develop the Ukrainian car market, but did a single model that is, by the way, sold at a much lower price in Russia than in Ukraine. So I would ask all of you, we need to support the simple people who don't dress up in transport today, it's not Mercedes, it's not BMW, it's not Rangers, it's simple cars that they want to get at a lower cost and give them the opportunity to move around freely, and serve their own business. That is why we do not build up this decision. And we ask for the future of all these lobbyist laws to fail, let's not forget the needs of ordinary citizens. Because tariffs have grown on heating, on utility services, this government doesn't see, take cheap gas, it doesn't see it either, the Ukrainian bioethanol doesn't develop, but it still allows gas imports, diesels to make profits on Ukrainian citizens. So I ask you to fail this determination and to give a proper assessment of these actions to our deputies from the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u163	Please, Krivenka. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, Honourable Chairman, Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. This problem has two aspects. First. We certainly need to sign this bill as quickly as possible, and in these difficult times, at least show people something that helps them in their lives and makes them better and easier. But at the same time, and that's probably what's causing the term of this law for two years, we need to develop our own motorcade. Look at Slovakia. The country was an agrotourism country 20 years ago. Because of the right policy, through industrial parks, through the use of the right tools such as job creation, a bunch of other tools, they created a country that is number 1 for the production of cars per capita in the world. Look at Turkey, and 38 manufacturers have been located. Brazil is 58 auto-producers and the Embryer. Thailand If we want to be not just an agro-refining and raw mining country, we need to adopt laws that we have in industrial parks that are already being initiated by my colleagues, and we need to develop our industry. And this law needs to be signed as quickly as possible and the decision to fail. The second question. As co-author of Law 3822, it's not a radio quota for Ukrainian song, it's a living space for Ukrainian song, I wanted to thank all my fellow MPs, all my co-authors, and I wanted to thank the active public, it's also Taras Shamida, and Musicbat, and a lot of other organizations. And to show that Ukraine can see, here's a list of Ukrainian songs, that's over 100 pages, where each line is a band and a song that is written on both sides, that we have a lot of wonderful creatively gifted groups called S.K.A.Y., "White Veja", "Christina Panasuk, dozens, "Kozak System". So today is a very crucial day for our nation. I welcome everyone to a great holiday and thank the Head of the Supreme Council for joining us, thank you to all the fellow MPs for voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Now it's Kaplin, please. Then there's Gorvath. After Caplin, Horvath and Jurinec. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u166	The noble Ukrainians, at last ordinary Ukrainians, will ride simple European cars. And in 25 years, I think this is the first real bill that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has promoted and the ordinary Ukrainian people will finally really feel that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done something for a simple person in 25 years. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues, this is a real decommunization when there are fewer nines on our roads, eights, volgs, nives and other Soviet cars, and it becomes more Skoda, BMW, let and middle class, Mercedes, let and middle class, where ordinary Ukrainians will ride. As for the actions of the oligarchic groups that were established in the Supreme Council, I want to tell you this. Obviously, there is only one solution for developing a Ukrainian highway. Obviously, there is only one solution to clean up the Ukrainian Parliament from the rod, the hydra and the oligarches are the immediate elections of the Ukrainian Parliament. And then by the forces of new, young, ideological parties, in particular, a party of simple people who chose for themselves the ideology of social-democracy, European social-democracy, nationalize Ukrainian autoprom, nationalize Ukrainian machinebuilding, take back to the Ukrainian people all the things we got from the Soviet Union, that our grandparents, our relatives built for our nation and handed over to an independent Ukraine. Unfortunately, the new government has not been able to build any factory, no factory, and no such government and parliaments. So today, our task is to gather political will into our fists, to do absolutely everything we can to make sure that the next ten years are not embarrassing to the Ukrainians, to their people, to self-dissolve and to give new political powers, to new young leaders and new parties, to give us a chance to build a new country, to give the power of the state a chance for a simple Ukrainian man. Before the elections and then there will not be one such as in 25 years, but tens, hundreds, and everyone will serve the ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I see there are many speakers and I will gradually give my word to all who wish to speak. Now, Horvath, please. Then there's the Jurassic. Then: Soloway, Yvchenko. I'll give everyone a word, company. Please, Horvath.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u168	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would suggest that everyone today respond to this determination by a red - eyed autolobe. Why? Because Bill 3257 is just the beginning of the struggle against a car in our country. It's a law that has to fill the budget and the law that goes to meet people. No one has the right to prohibit a person from freely choosing which car he or she is to drive. I think, at last, that with this law coming into force (although 237 deputies two weeks ago supported this law), we will finally stop being afraid in the streets, on our roads of death by "giggles", by "mockwitches" and by "wolves" -- from cars where there are no airbags, from cars that knock out our pedestrians and cyclists on the streets by iron bumpers, and then people get injured. One thing is to knock out an iron bumper and the other thing is to knock out a plastic bumper. One thing is, the forehead in Moscow's forehead is the one that survives those in the Folkvagen. And the second thing is, "Moscow" is everybody dies. Hence, foreign machines are designed first to preserve a person’s life. The other one. Foreign cars are not old enough to renovate the Ukrainian park. I urge everyone to press the red button and our faction will not support this determination either. I believe that the law will be signed as soon as possible by Mr. Paruby and will be signed as soon as possible by the President, because it is for the electronic initiative, the petitions, for the President of Ukraine that the law has begun to take effect, and we see that it is now on its way out. I hope that in two weeks, the month will come into force, and our citizens will be able to freely buy every car they can. Thank you, colleagues. We're going to press the red. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u169	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Please, Oksana Jurinec, then Solovay, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u170	Oksana Jurinec, 117th constituency of the city of Lviv In fact, today I want to support my colleague, the trend is going to be red, and this is the color that has to be pressed for this determination. But what I would like to point out is that it was the author of this decree that leaked a great deal of infiltration to Ukrainians on various media outlets on the Internet. It's going to be the red color of the hammocks, the cynicism and everything he tried to do, he took a little bit of time, maybe it added happiness or life to it. But I want to urge you all to support those Ukrainians who have been waiting for this for a very long time today. For Robert Gorvato, this is the law that he said his life and his being here in this Parliament. It's important that if each of us took one moment of change in our country, I think we would change this country quickly. Red, please vote everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u171	Thank you very much. Come on, I have a request from Solovay, then from Matvienkov, and then Kodolah and Brzezniak, then Ilchenko, that we walk in the hall like this. I'm sorry, Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u172	Yuri Solovay, 89th Gutzulščina constituency, and Poksin. Dear colleagues, the 3251 bill that we recently adopted is one of the few examples when the Supreme Council takes decisions not in the narrow interests of certain financial and industrial groups, but in the decision of millions of Ukrainians. Because Bill 3251, he's been a bill for the last 15 years, in fact, the only one who's opened up access to a simple average person in our country to buy a car used in Europe, to bring it here to Ukraine and not pay the space tax that he's unfortunately had to pay in recent years. Moreover, this bill allows the car not to make a luxury for the Ukrainian family but a basic attribute, as it is long ago in every European family. And those arguments that this bill is supposed to kill a domestic highway, on the contrary, your fellow countrymen, until we have what we call a ban on import duties, we will never have a domestic highway, because we have a new car that costs between 10,000 and 12,000 euros in Europe today. And because once we do, the President will sign this bill, the only way to sell new cars is to move production to Ukraine, place them here, and make the price of the new car 10 or 12 thousand euros that are today all over the world. And so when these decrees are made by national deputies like Saints, who have a direct impact on their businesses, who lobby for all these things, this is just an example of uncivilized lobbyism in the interests of specific people and absolutely not in the interests of Ukrainians. I think that each of us today should press the red button, express our position against, stop this path, open the door for Parliament's speaker to sign this law, send it to the President for signature. I'm sure the President of Ukraine will sign this bill in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u173	Thank you. It's from the opposition block of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u174	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm listening very carefully to what's going on in this room right now. Indeed, the entire Parliament is now condemning, on a one-time basis, the return, the decision prepared and inviting it to be settled in a friendly manner, there are no questions. But to tell you the truth, it's like a deputy who's not the first time we've convened in Parliament that's very sorry for our parliamentary and parliamentary time. If we do not have the capacity to adopt legislation to date, let us work in a different form of parliamentaryism, rather than dealing with what we are currently doing, this is the first. And the second question. With regard to the bill itself, unfortunately for the two years that we have been working for, we have hardly talked about supporting our own producer. I understand this issue is very difficult and not simple, but it is about supporting our own producer, talking about creating jobs, talking about replenishing the income part of the budget, talking about replenishing the same Pension Fund, the tax funds that we have today, unfortunately, absolutely nothing. You see what's going on in the country? Two million people are virtually unemployed, 5 million people have found employment outside Ukraine, 7 million out of 12-13 million people working in Ukraine. Two billion wages due to date. We're looking forward to something because we're going to open a niche. No questions asked, let's do it. But let's parallel develop our own production, let's, in the end, look at and turn to things that we used to take: maintenance of machinery, support for light industry, support for metallurgy. There have been laws on experiments, and there have been other developments that have been made. Well, let's, in the end, sit with Kabmin, do these things. Zero for today. That's not going to be a positive outcome. As long as we are doing such things now, there will be no effect on the work of Parliament in such a way. Excuse me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Kodola. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u176	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. I want to address all Ukrainians. You know, it's this decree of the deputy Saintess that is blocking what we've adopted that is actually a revolutionary bill on the cost of cars for every Ukrainian. You know that our team was initiators along with colleagues from all the democratic factions of this bill. That's why I urge you to stop this discussion, not vote in favour of a car lobby, to "fall down" this decree, and to allow the Chief of the Supreme Council to sign the law that we all have approved on car cuts. We urge the President of Ukraine to sign the law and give more accessible cars to every Ukrainian. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u177	Thank you. The Vadim coaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I don't think we should leave our citizens' rights to use "wolves", "graves" and so on. We need to raise the economic level of our citizens to the level that they can afford to use other cars. Because as soon as we do that, all citizens won't allow themselves to go on vacations, they'll allow themselves to go on vacations, I'm sorry, on Mercedes, on Volkswagens, on Toyotas and other reliable cars. And our highway will automatically rise to the international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u179	Please, Eutusek. And I'm sorry I told Yvchenko. Eutushka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u180	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, what we are currently looking at in the morning is this draft of the decree of Saintessa only says that you want to sign that law immediately, which was approved by Parliament, which allowed our citizens to reduce excise duty and buy a cheaper car. That's very good. I want you to comment in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with the Law of Ukraine on Rules, which is currently taking place in the Hall. That is, that with colleagues on their application (a large copyright team) of a well-worked law that gave this opportunity to our citizens, they voted for this law, but it was among our colleagues a deputy, and this is clearly the lobbyist of the autoprome, who clearly recorded in the secretariat a decree blocking the signing of the Supreme Council, as well as the signature of the President of Ukraine, the law. So I'd like the honourable colleagues to understand, because I see someone asking what's going on and whether it's necessary to vote. Now, this document needs to be voted red buttons only if it unlocks the signing of the Supreme Council and the signature of the President of the country. I also want to devote the second part of my speech to another process, which unfortunately happens in Ukraine. According to our information, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by its decree, has allocated financial resources to senior MPs who are loyal to power and vote with a majority of 12 million dollars. It's a real division of deputies into classes, and it's also a real division of people who represent these deputies. Are not those who are represented by opposition deputies unable to channel financial resources for the development of their communities? To build gardens, schools, social infrastructure, and roads. We can do so at a time when even Yanukovich did not have the process of applying these mechanisms, which would allow for even greater vote by the authorities. That's why I want to contact you, Andry Volodymyrovich. If there is and there is such a fact that those major deputies who vote for the majority are given 12 million dollars per district, and others who are also opposed by majors, there is nothing going on in their districts, there is nothing going on, there is nothing going on, there is nothing going on, there is nothing going on, there is nothing going on, there is going to be no division of parliament into classes, and there are people who are also denying them the right to direct financial resources to their needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'll take 30 seconds. There are still about 7 speakers in the room, colleagues, we simply will never get to the rejection of that decision. Colleagues, let's go for another one of the factions that didn't come from the factions, lady. Colleagues, but we're real. Then 30 seconds of replication. Okay? 30 seconds of replication. The Radical Party hasn't come out of factions yet. Self-help hasn't come out. Then the short lines and we move on to the vote. Please, Oleg Lazko, then – Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u182	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is certainly a pleasure that Parliament is finally considering a bill that will allow Ukrainians to pay less for imported imported cars. But let's look at the situation differently. 25 years of independence in Ukraine had a radically wrong economic policy, we turned Ukraine into a raw material, we had 95 percent of the revenues in the currency structure of the raw materials sold, we had the most powerful science, the most powerful industrial, military and technical enterprises, and so on. There's no such thing today. Yesterday we read messages -- Ukrainians are being appointed chief engineer of the leading European airline Airbus -- we're inviting maggots here to Ukraine because they say we can't bring the Ukrainians into our own home. So, dear colleagues, let's not put the car in front of the mare if we want our Ukrainians to drive not only on cheap cars, but on quality expensive cars, they should have one: money, wages and jobs. What does it take? The first is a radical change in economic policy, because you solve the problem on a superficial basis without looking at it. Who can borrow from a bank when the interest on credit is 30 percent? Who can start their own business when a person has to follow licenses for three years to set up a kiosk? And he hasn't earned anything yet, and seven of them are standing next to him with a spoon. Who will pay taxes in this country when the higher officials of the state spend their expenses abroad, hide their taxes in offshors, and do not pay taxes? Instead, they pay the pensioners, pay the unemployed, and pay those who cannot protect themselves. What an investor, what kind of business will come to Ukraine when we have in Parliament a "sharky" who say: "Everything will be nationalized, chosen and shared." You don't have to pick and share, but you have to create added value, you have to create jobs, you have to create a favourable investment climate. We passed the Metallurgy Support Act. The president vetoed, he said, we lobby for metallurgy. From the currency's income to Ukraine, the metal sold gives us a stable bracelet. When we're selling metal, grain, and everything else, and semi-factory, we're exporting forests, we're taking jobs from our people, from our Ukrainians. It's not like we're going to catch up with Europe today. We're not going to catch up with the African and Asian countries in the last 24 years. That's why I'm addressing all of you. The economic policy of the state must be radically changed. The bets on the manufacturer's own were as favourable as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u183	Please, Ostrikak. And then the lines, the short lines. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a violation of the Rules has led to the submission by the People's Deputy to the Holy See of this decree that we are considering. In doing so, this deputy from the Rebirth Group, who, of course, "thinks very much about the people of Ukraine and their well-being," he must have forgotten that the "rebirth" group, absolutely in violation of the numerous provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, voted in favour of amendments to the Tax Code without seeing these changes, voted in favour of amendments to the Tax Code to the amendments to the vote, voted in favour of the Ukrainian Budget Act 2016, which no one had seen. At that time, they did not make any decision to cancel the results, since they may have had a clear preconceived interest in these laws. And this law, 3251, which wastes imported cars for all people, it deprives them of blackmailing tools for all Ukrainian automobiles because of the high tax burden they have always put in the Tax Code and always controlled to keep it there, it has contributed to the Ukrainians being forced to buy in them and to buy them a similar Chinese highway at the price of a European medium-class car. And this bill has put an end to it once and for all. And the arguments I'm now hearing from my colleagues about Slovakia, about other countries of the neighbours, so I want to tell my colleagues that in Slovakia, the tax burden on new cars that are imported and on cars that were used is the same. As in Poland, as in Estonia, as in Hungary, their budgets have not been lost. So now I'm surprised to hear from my colleagues that this bill is one of the arguments that it will lead to the loss of the budget. The explanatory note makes it clear that according to the State Fiscal Service, Ukrainians have crossed the border of Ukraine on 61 cars a thousand times. Is that what real crossovers are? No, it's not. They're forced. We pushed people into schemes to drive cars in transit, not to blur or blur, paying bribes to customs, in different schemes, in parts, engines separately, and others, there, the shells separately. And the budget is lost, and the pockets of tax collectors and such deputies, like the Saints, are filled. We must put an end to this once and for all. We vote against this decision. And we'll pass the bill on to the President's field. Let him sign and let the law take effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose we move on to making decisions. Short lines: Fishbuck, Barna. All right, two last lines. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, by voting against this decision, we create jobs in Ukraine, in tyre assembly, in technical services stations. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to vote against this decree. And with regard to the replication, it's about spending on socio-economic development on some of the regions of Ukraine. But what I'm saying is, those heads of administration like me, for example, in the Putil region of Cherniewec region, didn't make any proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers about financing their region and their villages, their schools, and so on. So it is the responsibility of the people who steal the forests of Carpathians, and the head of the administration, along with his son - in - law, breaks all these things. It's these people that have to be responsible for not getting any money from their regions to finance socio-economic development. We vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u187	Thank you. Barna's last closing statement, turn it on. And I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u188	I'd like to go to the owners, the auto dealers, the oligarchs, the owners of the big car business, which I very much ask you not to confuse the interests of the domestic manufacturer, the interests of the people with your own pocket. And if you care so much about your own manufacturer, translate your ass from the imported Mercedes into the country's "tavri" and others. And in terms of the theses, it's very simple to say that the people -- the available car, the taxes -- are true for the oligarchs, the Russian cars, and the additional customs, and the Russian lobbyists -- are going to be counted as separatists and planted, and then the glory of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Are we running a rating or just before making a decision, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u190	[[From the Hall]] We're voting right now. We're voting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u191	We're voting right now. Well, if there is such a requirement. I'm asking you to take up jobs, prepare for admission. Please. Signal, I say, or conduct? Please. Colleagues, get ready. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to move on to making a decision, colleagues. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 31 May 2016 on second reading adoption and, as a whole, law. Ukraine's draft amendment to Chapter XX, Section 5 of the Tax Code on Promoting Market Development of Used Means of Transport No. 3551. Who. 3251, yes. 3251-P (stenogram). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:40:54]] For 1 One vote for it. The decision is not made. Order rejected, I'm asking the camera. factions, factions, please. I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to bring the law straight into the hall, and I'll sign it right in front of everyone, colleagues. The ruling is rejected -- it opens the way for us to sign the law and put it into effect. The next in our agenda is among those laws that we should make as urgent, the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 02 June 2016 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft law on the judiciary and the status of judges. And I would like to give you the floor to report to the Ukrainian national deputy Shuhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanovich, please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u192	Deputies! The draft Decision, which is being submitted for your consideration, which I signed, is prepared by me, as well as by Deputy Nadia Savchenko. The point is, when considering this bill on the status of judges. The judicial system and the status of the judges were subject to serious violations of the Rules. These violations of the Rules were that a bill with more than 100 articles could not be considered as a basis. The bill has 160 articles. In general, the law cannot be considered if there is a denial of MPs. Victor Pinzenik objected, spoke from the rostrum, and applied for the head of the Supreme Council. In addition, three factions were warned. It's from "Fatherland" who said it was only in the first. Yegor Sobolev is the same thing. And there's another objection, I don't remember who was speaking out of the will of the people. So this gives rise to such a violation in order to make a decision. write about the rejection of this vote and put to a new vote. Based on the second reading. Gentlemen, don't make fun of yourself in front of the world and let's go through with these laws on the system, and we'll adopt them in a civilized way, not in haste, on the ur, on the demagogue. Please support our determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. I'm sorry, Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u194	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Rules Committee considered the draft Decree (registration number 4334-P) under the authority of the national deputies Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich and Hope Savchenko. According to the requirements of article 48 of the Rules, the procedure for the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides, inter alia, for the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting, claiming violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. We considered the material presented, the transcript of the June 2th plenary session, and concluded that the draft Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges (registration 4734) was adopted as a basis and, in general, as proposed by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, which was supported by 281 Ukrainian national deputies. The Committee noted, of course, that during its consideration of the bill, there had been violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which it noted in particular in its report and the author of the legislative initiative, Mr. Yuri-Bogdan Suhjevich, and that the chairman of the plenary had also been referred to by the national deputies of Ukraine Krulko, Sobolev, Melniczuk, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. According to part eight of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee adopted the conclusion on the draft Decree 4734-P and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt or reject the draft decision by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u195	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please give my word to Oleni Matuzko, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u197	National MP Vladislav Dove, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. Vladislav Golub, 197 constituency, Petra Prashenko Faction, Cherkaščina. You know, we've recently adopted a new version of the Court of Justice Act and the status of judges. In particular, by this bill, we are indeed making judicial reform, which is or is not more urgent to our state. And I would still like to ask the honourable colleagues to consider that if we do not implement this judicial reform and implement this law, this entire corrupt system of justice will continue to remain. So I still urge our colleagues to pay attention to these things and still start the process of changing the system, to start the process of illustrating the judges that we need to change in order to implement reforms in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u199	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Nadia Savchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u200	People's deputies, I don't want you to think that I, or Mr. Suhevich, are against European reforms in the Ukrainian judicial system. We are opposed to them happening like everything else in our country: fast, rash, reckless, and knee-deep. This law had to be adopted before the first reading and reading, and it had to be corrected so that it would not be raw. Some bills may be raw, and Ukraine will forgive that. But as important as the reform of the judicial system, they can't be half-consumer. You're already on the first reading, even though you said the amendments would be, but you've already prescribed such unworthy elements in this law, such as judicial pensions, judicial salaries to judges -- it doesn't stop corruption. I was tried by a Russian court in which the same high wages and so do our Ukrainians, but there is no fair trial there, and that will never fix the situation. I want you to think about it, and before you read it, you can look at it, but not right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u201	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Kodolu, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u202	Alexander Kodolah. I give my word to my colleague and to one of the initiators of Leonid’s judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u203	Please, National Deputy Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, the People's Front, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, let me remind you of the story of how we came to adopt this law. You remember that the People's Front faction on the first reading of changes to the Constitution in part of the judicial reform made it clear that these changes without the relevant law to implement these changes to the Constitution would be incomplete. And this bill was written, and under this law, there are unique measures for the Ukrainian situation. Exceptionally radical measures such as: release of the Supreme Court judge, liquidation of the Supreme Court of Commerce, liquidation of the Supreme Administrative Court, liquidation of the Higher Civil Court, implementation of three court declarations, and even if he takes the bribe, he will no longer be able to spend it, is being implemented by the Public Council of Virtue, which will follow the conduct of the competitions and the enforcement of the relevant three declarations. I fully support that in a normal situation we should go through first and second reading, and then go on to change the Constitution. Sadly, though, we received what we received. Our demand was one and very simple, to vote in general on the amendments to the Constitution, because we realize that this whole judiciary would never, through its representatives in the Ukrainian Parliament, without the support of the President, with his demand to vote on the amendments to the Constitution, would never have allowed this law to be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u205	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers and especially distinguished radio audiences, no one sees what's happening in the hall right now, and there's no one in the room who can vote in favour of this decision. It reminds me of how we voted in favour of a group of populists who stood by the rostrum when they had to vote, they put it out on Wednesday, when the smallest people in the room, they put it to a vote, and it's now that the verdict is coming out again. Such decisions should be made when voting is possible. And those boxes are empty, and you're going to buy them, too, please. And the decision you had to make today was not to put it to a vote, but to make it right when there were enough people in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u208	I support our colleague Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u209	Now I'm going to give the faction another one who didn't act and then Victor Pinzenik. Please, Egor Sobolev "self-help".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u210	Self-help supports this initiative by Yuri Sukhevich and Hope Savechenko. To all colleagues who consider this law to be good, let us now vote in favour of the cleansing of the courts and release the judge who led the Supreme Economic Court in Yanukovich's time. Judge Tatkov's release has been filed in Parliament since December of last year. I don't understand why it's June and we can't vote for it. A request to the presiding officer and a request to all colleagues in Parliament to take and expel the judge. This will be a real step that confirms the sincerity of words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u211	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u212	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, let us not defraud our own citizens. There is no independent court and independent justice in Ukraine. If there were an active National Anti-Corruption Office, an independent court, an independent attorney general's office in Ukraine, our law enforcement agencies would be investigating off-shore scandals, investigating corruption scandals, drawing state officials to justice. Instead, we see the unwillingness of Parliament and the authorities to investigate these scandals. Those laws you passed don't give real independence to the judicial system, because the High Council of Justice, the Senior Judicial Commission of Judges formed under the influence of the President, is just as President Poshenko wanted to have a monopoly on the composition of the new Central Electoral Commission. So everything that authority does is governed by one goal: that money should be used to solve matters and that they should decide on the Internet and on the Internet. You want to win an independent court, film government liaisons in the judges ’ offices.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Please, Dobrenkov. I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u214	Thank you. The Opposition Block faction didn't vote in favour of the Ukrainian Act on Justice and the Status of Judges, because it's a violent case in fact in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when such a system-wide bill as it would not be justified by the slogans, but it voted on the basis as a whole. What is the effect of this bill? This is an unconstitutional disqualification of all judges, according to the way these judges are stretched through their own filters: the so-called Public Council of Virtue, which is not clear on what signs they will be shaped by. It is not clear by what signs we will determine who is virtuous, who is decent, who is professionally subordinate, or competent, or who is not competent. These bills we cannot, we have no right to accept, persons who in most of this room do not have any legal professional education at all, now to judge whether they are law-abiding, or not to comply with laws in the course of a judicial decision. Of course, this is a gross violation of the Rules that we must correct and, of course, reform the judicial system gradually.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Victor Pinzenik, Levchenko, and we're done here. All right, Jemec, but these are the last three performances. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, it is by violating the Rules that I can explain what happened to this law. No one denies the standards that apply to the reform of justice in Ukraine, the judicial system. But this law has established standards that have no economic or moral justification. This law establishes unprecedented wages, wages, which are nearly 200 times the minimum wage. This law restored 90 percent of special pensions are almost the maximum pensions of 270,000 dollars. It's a shame that we're allowing such a range of fluctuations when most Ukrainian citizens get pensions and wages of 1,000 dollars. Following this law, a new standard of honesty has been introduced in Ukraine, and honesty in Ukraine can be bought for 300,000 dollars. Honesty is not bought or sold. Therefore, respectable colleagues, violations of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u217	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u218	In violation of the Rules, I was unable to take advantage of the possibility of law enforcement. And I'm sure many colleagues would support the inadmissibility of such standards in the Law on the Status of Judges. So I ask you to support my colleague, the law, the decision made by our colleagues: Shuhevich and Savichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u219	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, then Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u220	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, what change to, what cleansing of the courts and what fight against corruption can be considered when, by adopting this law, which is allegedly called upon to do so, the Supreme Council of Ukraine violates the Law, the Law of Ukraine "On the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". That is, the Supreme Council is the highest legislative body that violates the law that itself has approved, but it tells us that it violates this law so that other laws are not violated. That's bullshit. This immediately gives a proper assessment of this law. This is the first time. And secondly, for those who talk about the quality of this reform, this law is actually going to make absolutely terrible changes to the Constitution, where Ukrainian citizens will soon have no access to the courts at all, because they will not be able to defend themselves in courts that will decide whether there is a legal dispute or not, and can say that any dispute is legal, and people are going to be killed. And according to which the current Council of Justice is preserved until the year 19, which, in effect, will appoint even more loyal judges than it is now. From.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u221	Thank you. And the closing statement is Leonid Yemetz. And let's move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this law is not the only law that we've been releasing not only Mr. Tatkov, who has indeed been the High Qualified Commission for two years now, the High Council of Justice cannot possibly lead to the Ukrainian Parliament so that we can decide on the release of this ostrich head of the Economic Court. By this law, we release him no less than Mr. Emilianov’s ostensible deputy, finally freeing him from the position of judge. And with respect to the specialties, I can say that we can no longer rule here by law, because the Constitutional Court last week has made a decision that has so detailedly prescribed the issue of judges' pensions, by the way, at the request of the Supreme Court that there is nothing more to be done here. So I think our next bill and requirement should be the full release of the judges of the Constitutional Court who made the decisions that returned Yanukovic's mandate, which caused our boys to die in Maidan, and which is why the war in Lugansk and Donetsk is taking place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. Replica Yuri Suhevich. Please turn on 1 minute, Suhevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u224	I want to talk to you. Here I hear a lot of talk about the perfection of this law. That he'll solve everything. So what I'm saying is, let's make a deal like this, not if for a few months someone's going to give a vote for change, I'm not going to say bullet in the forehead, but let's just put a deputy mandate. Vote for such a beautiful law, then there is no right to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-16-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 June 16 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, No.4734-P. Whoever supports this decision please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:00:26]] For-72 The decision is not made. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, I'd like to read the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional MPs association "Motional Right" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Kupria Vitali Mikolaiovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, was elected leader of this association. And, colleagues, as promised, publicly throughout the hall, I am signing under the Act amending Chapter XX, Section 5 of the Tax Code on Promoting Market Development of Used Means. Let's make our people more accessible. [[Applause]] The signature has been set. [[Applause]] Congratulations, fellows of honor! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4: 00 p.m., we gather to continue our difficult but necessary work for our Father. Thank you. I'll see you at 4:00.
