ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to stop the briefings, the coffee, the teasing and entering the hall, getting ready for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[10:03:55]] 308 deputies registered in the hall. Thus, I declare open the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, before we begin to consider matters of the order of the day, I would like to say a few words about the organization of our work. Attention, fellow officers! We had a big day yesterday, and we made a huge number of decisions. For many months, we were unable to make decisions because there were simply not enough deputies in the hall. And Ukrainian traitors were paid wages because there were no decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How to do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm talking about organization, yes, and I hear screams from the hall. This is a demonstration of the effectiveness of our work. Dear colleagues, there are many decisions that relate to national security and defence, which relate to the support of our army in terms of reform, decommunization, we cannot make because there are not enough deputies in this room. I hear a lot of calls that I should follow the Rules as chairman. And I am desperately doing everything I can to ensure that the Rules are complied with. I am desperately doing everything I can to ensure that there are no non-personal ballots in the room. But I would also like to address you, dear colleagues. Why did the signal vote take place? Because there were no MPs in the hall, because very often, by calling for regulations, MPs who call for it then disappear from the hall and we can't make decisions. When I was speaking out of this rostrum before I was elected Head of the Supreme Council, I was talking about what we should do through politics to see Ukraine, we should think, not about political interest, but about public interest. The State interest is to make the Supreme Council of Ukraine an effective governing body in the country, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be able to make decisions. When we don't go to work, when we consider important issues, MPs walk around the hall, talking to each other about how it is, and now that I'm talking, that's why the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the lowest confidence rating among all other authorities. This is not a matter for the chairman or for the presidency, it is a problem for all members and members of Parliament. So I would like to call on the people's deputies just as desperately as we are fighting for the rule of law just as desperately to fight for the MPs to go to work, as desperately to raise questions about the fact that there are no deputies in the room and from your factions, including. We have to become partners on this issue, we have to become colleagues. And if we don't, we're going to have the same story when Parliament has the lowest level of trust and it's going to be on everyone. Colleagues, I urge everyone to make every effort to make sure that the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, like all other citizens, are at work, to hear the responsibility of the boys who are ahead and who are waiting very often for our decisions. And I hope that, together, we will get Parliament to work together on the procedure and that Parliament will be a working, effective body in the Ukrainian government. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies. And I want to say hello to Alexander Valeriovich Opanasenka for her birthday. Please! [[Applause]] We won't give flowers, because it's dangerous in our room, with flowers, all these stories. Alexander Anatolyevich the Jury. [[Applause]] My friends, welcome. And according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Ready? It's a recording. Self-help. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u2	People's Will Group, Melnichuk Sergei. When I listen to you, Mr. Head, as the forward fighters expect decisive action from us, I remember a year and a half ago. Mr. Head! How you came to my battalion and promised me a lot of things. So, boys are still waiting for help to be formed, for those who had convictions, for those volunteers to recognize them as volunteers, for their documents to be, for many of them to die, for their families to wait. And it's your political power, the "will of the people" faction in the face of some of the committee heads, that blocks the laws of the volunteers, and then pulls everything else -- and forms, you pay one-time aid, and you help the families of the dead. So on behalf of myself, and on behalf of the fighters who are now on the front page, for whom you are very concerned, I appeal to you personally to take decisive action, to put these laws to the vote as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, you know my position and you know how Idar was created, like all the other volunteer battalions. Isn't that right, Sergei? And so, Mr. Sergei, these bills that are important, you bring me their list, we'll sit together and do everything we can to accept them. And everyone knows how much Paris has done to create a volunteer movement, including the Idar. And I was at the forerunner, Mr. Sergey, and at the Idar, and at the Kulchitsky, and in Chernig, and with all our other battalions. In my face, you will have the full support of all initiatives in support of our volunteers. And we will do everything together to make our volunteers who broke the war feel like heroes in the Ukrainian state, and I'm sure we can do it together. Thank you. The spores are passing on Barney's performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is a pleasure that the political crisis has finally disappeared from the fold, and we hope that it will pass economically. By the way, we will continue to stress that, as former governments have conducted improper management of state-owned enterprises, the government must draw up a list of state-owned enterprises whose activities directly affect the security of the state. And first of all, these are companies in the military-industrial complex, defense companies, oil processing complex, energy industry, communications (although one operator), railway. We also believe that the alcohol industry in the food industry should be a monopoly of the state. And in this context, these enterprises, at least in the near future, cannot be privatized in any way. The State in the government is now obliged to finally return to the intelligence of the nation, to the health of the nation, to the teachers and to the medical profession, and in particular to science. Ukraine is primarily a high-intelligent and high-tech state, and therefore, as we emerge from the latest trends in the development of all mankind, it is with intelligence, intelligence, scientific discoveries that we can overturn to a large extent the underfunding of the budget by selling our inventions. And that's why the intelligence of our scientists will be the strongest, stable currency that will lift Ukraine from its knees and make it a highly developed state. In particular, attention should be paid to the growing generation, since more than 30 percent of children complete education institutions with chronic digestive diseases, which means that there has been a systematic trend towards the extermination of our nation. Therefore, we need to introduce a compulsory diet for all children in school. And agriculture. The state must first turn its face to small and small farms, the development of family farms. There should be a limited number of agricultural arrangements offered to agricultural enterprises up to 2 to 5,000 hectares. In particular, farmland should be covered by the number of livestock to be grown by farmers, land, birds, and gardens. In addition, primary, deep, and other processing must be done locally because of the agricultural trade. The basic income is derived from those who do not have a bearing on the earth, namely, the common peasant. And to pay attention to the development of tobacco production, the government's latest actions have destroyed any trends in the resurgence of tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u6	In particular, tobacco raw materials were introduced into the subcontractors, making tobacco-fermentation plants domesticated, the last of which remained uncompetitive in factories producing cigarette products with foreign capital. We're a high moral nation, we're governed by faith and tradition, so we don't have to change the Constitution about the legalization of non-traditional orientation, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u8	Because in pursuit of European values, we can lose much more, our identity, our faith, and our traditions. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Dubyl Valérie gives the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, we all hope that, after the reintroduction of power, the Supreme Council has been given its devoted leadership to Ukraine and its devoted parliamentary leadership. We all hope that Parliament will take its place in the administration of the country rather than serve as a service staff in the President's Office, including the government. I think that Parliament is just obliged now that the power structures have been combined with corruption, combined with the system of executive power and the power structures to fight corruption do not perform any of their functions, at this time Parliament has to take control of itself. And we went to Mr. Paris to put in order a daily bill on the interim commission of inquiry, which allowed Parliament to actually check every piece of government, to see where, and who took, to bring responsibility and to return to the state. And we very much expect, Andrija Volodymyrovich, that after all the consultations by the end of this week, the bill on the interim commissions will stand in order of the day. But at the same time, we are now taking the initiative of the opposition democratic factions to create an interim commission of inquiry into corruption over the last two years, based on the Yatsenuk government. I can tell you that all the factions except the People's Front and the WFP, the Peter Prashenko Block, have submitted candidates to this temporary commission of inquiry -- strong people, experienced people, decent people, who will actually be able to make this profound examination. I'm going to Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Front: if there's nothing to hide, give me your candidacy. And the last. This is a deficit in the money budget. It's just embarrassing when they talk about the lack of money in the budget, and at the same time they're not looking at the Tax Committee of the Supreme Council, and I see that Mrs. Southanina is in the room, two bills on de-offshoring, a real de-offshoring, not the fairy that is now being initiated on the Reform Council. A real de-offshoring that closes all the loopholes and gives an additional 68 billion dollars to the income part of the budget. This bill has been drafted with international organizations. It is perfect, and it can become even better if Parliament starts its work immediately. Today we have a meeting of the Tax Committee. And I'm going to the head of the profile committee today to put bills 4130 and 4131 under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u12	Those who completely close tax evasion through offshore. I also ask the Head of the Supreme Council to take control of the committee on these issues today. Our faction today, using its right, will come to this committee with the media. We want this issue not to be blocked, and so scientists, pensioners, Chernobyl, Afghans don't get zero in this budget, zero instead of getting social money and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Clan Sergey gives the word to Jephim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u14	Good morning, distinguished colleagues. Good morning, people of Ukraine. Today, the situation with regard to the grant for the restoration of Donbass continues to grow. For the sake of understanding: since the adoption of Law 714, which has allocated unused funds to the budgets of the uncontrolled territories to the rehabilitation of the infrastructure of the controlled, it has taken about 7 months. During this time, 29 territorial communities, including 14 cities, 15 areas of the Donetsk Region, have developed 650 reconstruction projects for their own money. By decision of 23.12.2015 of the Cabinet of Ministers, the budgeting arrangements for the inclusion of subsidies for these purposes were approved. However, the Ministry of Finance has never fulfilled its commitments to the provision of these funds in the 2016 budget. Thus, in fact, the Government did not simply give up that money, nor did it deceive people's confidence without realizing the complexity of the situation in the region. These funds were taken, not from rich areas, but from territories where the poor, war-torn people live. Thus, the deputies who co-sponsored the bill: Ephimov, Gerasimov, Neda, Gerashchenko, Ionov, Greenevich – they were in fact complicit in the deception. Many politicians and officials today say that this subsidy is a source of funding. The budget deficit is increasing. I would like to note that, in the first quarter of 2016, the income portion of the budget was overrun by 14 billion griffins and that the spending portion was under-filled by 14 billion griffins. Thus, the planned budget was $40 billion and the actual budget was 11. Thus, the adoption of the bill would have no impact on Ukraine's implementation of the IMF agreement. It turns out we have a 30 billion-dollar surplus today. What 3 billion deficits could this be? How do we plan to gain the confidence of the people living in this region when we lose it more and more every day? Today we have a new Minister of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers who, I believe very much, are aware of the complexity of the situation that is and will go to our meeting. Specially to provide money for there to be no talk of any corruption and so on, we have adopted Act 4199, which was voted today, signed by the President of Parliament, and hopefully will be signed by the President in the near future. We call upon all who are willing to participate in the development of Donbass to come to us, to work in ProZorro and to restore our Donbass. I ask all of you, 4197, this is a bill that I hope will be submitted on Thursday, introduced into the Hall, to support it in order to correct the mistake that was made last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u15	Thank you. The climate conveys the word Kulinich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u16	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Because of the President's veto, the problem of financing trade and technology remains unresolved. In the meantime, in the regions, it stands us very tight. I've been communicating with the mayors of cities, with the heads of professional technical institutions, and none of them have a clear idea of how this issue will be resolved in the future. If the situation in institutions transferred to the district budget can, of course, be more or less normal, then those schools that are financed from city budgets are barely closing down. This is a specific example of the city of Mirrod. City of Area Value, Professional Technical School No.44. According to the mayor of Sergio Solomah, the need for a school for a year is 9 million dollars. Of the city’s budget, 3.6 million dollars were allocated for the first half of the year. At the same time, the proportion of further funding for this facility is unknown. According to the city budget, only wages, energy supplies, and scholarships, or compulsory payments, were funded. At the same time, the very material and technical base of the school continues to be on the balance of the state. The city keeps what doesn't belong to it. And the funds that went to the gym could have gone to other vital expenses that were needed for the city. The state grant to the Poltav region amounted to 8 million dollars. But only 1.2 million were allocated to Mirrod. The rest of the funds, the grants, that's 6.8 million dollars, were allocated to the town of Gadzic, that's probably logical, because the town of Hadzach is a city of regional importance that it recently became. And in Gazach, four vocational schools and, in comparison with other cities of regional importance, the city budget is the smallest. But this did not help solve the problem of the Hades School of Bees, the only one in Ukraine to have such a teaching facility. According to the head of the school of Natalia Senchuk, the school needs nearly 2.5 million dollars a year. The city has allocated 290,000 dollars, plus 542 thousand dollars is a government grant. Where the rest of the money is not understood, neither is the head of the school nor is it for the students in the school. It turns out that a school that could be a visit not only to the Poltava region but also to Ukraine in general is not needed by anyone. To sum up, even the eight millionth grant granted from the state to the Poltavsk region did not solve the problem of trade and technology. So I want to look to Parliament's leadership, to the leaders of all the MP factions and groups. We need to get this matter back to the voting room immediately. Otherwise, vocational and technical education will just disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, I'd like to report back to the organization system. Who is given the word, takes the microphone and passes the word. Spark, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, I was forced to go to this rostrum by a sad anniversary in the history of our country, which we will unfortunately celebrate in just 12 days of this year, during the Easter season. On May 2, 2014, dozens of people were killed in the peaceful city of Odessa, in the European city of Odessa. To this day this tragedy has not been investigated. Almost none of the perpetrators of this tragedy, customers, and perpetrators of this tragedy have been brought to justice. Today, neither Ukrainian society nor the world community knows the answers to who is responsible for this tragedy, and whether the law is in force in Ukraine, and when, indeed, the perpetrators of this tragedy will be punished. Our faction, at the beginning of Parliament's work, gave Parliament a draft decision to renew the work of the interim commission of inquiry on this issue. We are constantly addressing all the factions of Parliament, all of our colleagues, with the request that we send our representatives to this temporary commission of inquiry. Today, this draft decision is on the regulatory committee. I'm addressing the board of directors, I'm addressing the new Supreme Council leadership, and I'm addressing all my colleagues, all the factions of Parliament. We have to take these steps, we have to prove that Ukraine is, indeed, a parliamentary-presidential republic, that Parliament in this country has its, indeed, real weight, that we can actually give new impetus to this investigation and really force the law enforcement authorities to find the guilty. And one more question. Before this tragedy in the media, there's a lot of information about possible provocations in Odessa just 2 May of this year, about how these provocations are being prepared on different sides, about how they are going to break this sad date. I turn from this high rostrum to the leadership of our nation, to the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, demanding the safety of our citizens in Odessa on this sad day. I appeal to all of my fellow Members of Parliament to make every effort to really preserve the peace of this day in Odessa. If for us all human beings are equal, if, in fact, we are going to the European state, if, in fact, we are protecting human rights, we have to unite around simple principles that all Ukrainian citizens have equal rights. And so, honourable colleagues, in summarizing our speech, considering that we will not be gathering until May 2nd in this room, I ask that you, your colleagues, honor the victims of the tragedy on May 2nd, 2014 in Odessa for a moment of silence. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u19	Thank you, colleagues. And let's continue to figure out, if there's a need to honor memory, to approach me as chairman, I'm going to propose this hall so that we don't make it out of the memory of the heroes who died in Odessa on May 2, protecting Ukrainian Odessa so that we don't make it out of that policy so that we don't make it out of that show. Svetlana Petrovna's valve, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u20	Dear presiding fellows, dear citizens! This morning in Parliament has just begun with a speech by the lawyers of the dead families of the Heavenly Hundreds who have made a statement that there is systemic pressure on investigators investigating the cases of Eromanadean, particularly on Sergey Gorbatuk. This pressure comes from Deputy Attorney General Yuri Stolarchuk. I want to remind you that, at first, Sergey Gorbatyuk was asked to leave for exile in the Lviv region. After the lead investigator refused to go to Lviv, Stolarchuk initiated an investigation into Sergey Gorbatuk’s activities. We have information that's a hunchback. The hunchback wants to put the article on "challenge" on the very case that we just mentioned as a moment of silence. This case happened by accident to the department of investigation, namely, Sergey Gorbatyuk himself. It's about the clothing fire. In addition, Stolarchuk was under pressure to hold back the investigation into the case of the Yanuković Sanitation List, such as the Klimenko case, and the assignment of the Januković land in Sukholucci. This pressure has already led to the release of one of the investigators from the Stolarchuk team. At the same time, Stolarchuk himself created a pocket department, a pocket group that conducts investigations against Kaska, Sacrelidze and activists. Dear colleagues, today when we talk about the assignment, when the whole country is waiting for the appointment of a new Attorney General, we demand, the public, and we, the Eurooptimist group, which brings together representatives from the faction, we demand the appointment of an independent and honest Attorney General. We cannot today adopt and modify specific laws under specific names, even if these names are "enko," and even if these names are "uk" from specific political teams that are convenient today to monopolize the Attorney General's Office as a tool for dealing with those who disagree with the system. We demand that public discussion on specific criteria be held prior to the appointment of the Attorney General. I ask my colleagues to support such demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Vladimir Gusak Georgievich. I don't have a note, really, for you. Well, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u22	Come on, please pass the word to Vilukulu Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u24	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Two years ago, Ukrainians had serious doubts that had become clear during that period. Who is in charge of us, the President and the Prime Minister or foreign banks? With regard to tariff increases, the provincial coalition and Groisman should clearly indicate who are the mains in Ukraine, whether they are or the International Monetary Fund. As we know, according to the signed memorandum with the IMF, Yatzenuk planned to increase the tariffs again from 1 April. NCREK predicts that the social price of gas in coffeehouses can be increased by 1.5 times, from 3,000,600 to 5,000,500 bracelets per thousand cubic metres. But in April Arsenija Petrovich did everything, did everything at that time to remain in power and did not decide to make this unpopular decision. On 30 March, an order by the Cabinet of Ministers moved the monthly increase in gas prices for the population. That is, when the authorities need to do so, they can endure promotions, and when millions of Ukrainians are needed, tens of millions of Ukrainians are promoted. Thousands of people have been forced out of their apartments by now for not being able to pay unsettled communal tariffs. We believe that with international creditors, IMF must also sit at the table and negotiate. All 25 years of an independent Ukraine, the IMF has insisted on raising tariffs, but only the last two years have the provincial coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers taken this radical step towards raising money from the population. If the world is interested in the forty-five million countries on the border with Europe becoming a refugee country, they will not meet. However, a hundred per cent could be dialogueed and tariff-free. And another issue that is now of great concern to people is employment. The most popular record in Ukrainians' employment books cannot be allowed to be “discharged”. Parliament must intervene in the situation created by the Government by establishing the lowest social standards for the population in Europe. And the new Cabinet of Ministers must present a plan to improve social standards. I invite ministers responsible for the economy, vice-premiers, to join us for European integration, to go to large enterprises, to talk to people, to join the camp. And then maybe they're here, in Parliament, and at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, they'll tell their colleagues that industry needs to be maintained. Industry and production is what creates jobs for us, and it is the only thing that will save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u25	The dentist, Volodymyr, passes the word to the deputy Shipko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u26	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Ladies and gentlemen, dear Ukrainians, today I want to raise a rather unpopular question: The health of Ukrainians. The management of Ukraine puts the need for change in health care at sixth place, and the population at second place. To say that the Ukrainians are not satisfied with the health system is to say nothing. During his 24 years of independence, Ukrainian medicine changed 19 ministers. The issue of systemic health reforms is common among all of them, but in those years there have been no major disruptions, and now there is no minister. There is no State-guaranteed level of health care, no compulsory health insurance — nothing. Everyone pays for everything. Happily, there are doctors who, despite everything, save our lives. Disease and death rates in Ukraine have hit the world’s record. Who will be responsible for this? In this situation, no one even thinks about troubled areas. In our country, there are 4 active nuclear stations, the opposition nuclear is the largest in Europe, the disease rate of the population living in 30 kilometers around the AES, no one is studying separately, and the health care there is as terrible as everywhere, but the statistics speak for themselves. The cardiovascular disease, oncology and respiratory disease in the city of Nicopol, which is in the 30-mile zone around the Zaporozhye AES, is much higher than in the neighboring cities. Death rates are almost 20 percent higher than in Ukraine as a whole. Thousands of people and most health problems are addressing my community reception center in Nicopol. In the past year, 1929 people, nearly half of whom asked for help with chemotherapy, and such statistics are not comforting. Soon the 30th anniversary of the terrible tragedy in the Chernobyl AES, which then took countless lives, and the consequences of the disaster take life now. Let us consider together the future of the country and put the health of the Ukrainians first. The restoration of Ukraine should begin with the restoration of the health of Ukrainians. And I demand that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources conduct special medical observations on the impact of atomic stations on public health, and ask that my speech be considered as a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for the performances has been exhausted, but I have received two petitions in the Presidium. In those appeals there is a request for a recess according to the regulations that the factions are willing to replace by a speech. First call from the Radical Party and Fatherland faction. And on this statement, I give the floor to the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, and today almost midnight the faction of the Radical Party was in almost full stock in the Darnitsky region along with residents of the Darnitsky region. At the intersection of the streets of Zdolbunski and the avenue of Peter Grigornka, there is a lake called Kačine, where a number of lakes are located. This is the lake where the residents rest, where the guests of Kiev rest. Today, this lake is being built by builders who try to put to sleep, motivated by the fact that it is a puddle, and there is no lake there. And at the site of this lake, which is 2 hectares of dance, a 2 hectares of dance, a 2 hectares of dance, five feet deep, where there are black sea seagulls, where there are reddish fish, where beavers and everything else are running, this lake is going to be put to sleep to build another altitude. As usual, the builders used aunts to stop the opposition from the locals. I had a conversation yesterday with Mayor Kyiv Klick, the police chief of the Kiev Police, who promised me that the police would be with the people. Sadly, it was not as the chief of police had promised. Now I've got information that over a hundred aunts have been beaten up by particularly activists, including damage to Eugene Saiguchenk's car, other Kievers, and they're trying to bring in the building technology to put this lake to sleep. Yesterday when I was talking to Mayor Kiev Klick, he said to me in a friendly way, he said, "Well, why do you go in there, we made all the documents there, it's fine." I say, "Vitalia, where are the beavers going, where are the reddew birds going?" He says, "Come on, let's move the beavers to the zoo." This is if instead of beavers, officials were to move to the zoo, hang locks and keys to lose those locks. I am leading to the fact that Kiev was once the second place in Europe after the landscaping. Today, it's glass and concrete. Green plantings are destroyed instead of planting. Lakes are buried instead of cleaning. It's pure water affair, it's all in pursuit of profit, it's in pursuit of a long bracelet or a long ruble. That's why I'm calling on the National Police leadership to immediately stop conspiring with my aunts, protect the interests of activists, the citizens of the Darnicki region, who are protecting their right to a green environment. I'm calling on Mayor Kyiv Klitschka, Vitalia Klitschka: to immediately assemble an extraordinary session of the City Council, to make changes to the decision of the City Council, and to protect the lake, not to put it to sleep. I'm talking to all the worryks: let's protect our right to a green environment, to rest for our children. Because when they're at the lakes, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the people's place, they're at the beach, they're at the beach, they're at the beach, they're at the beach, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the lake, they're at the Europe begins with the environment, Europe begins with the protection of human rights, including recreation. So I urge the authorities to stop violating the rights of the Chinese.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Next statement from the "will of the people" and "rebirth." And instead of a break, they're willing to replace it with a speech and give it to the deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u30	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, honourable Ukrainians, I would like to draw attention to the recent processes in Ukraine, where corrupters, criminals have been involved with law enforcement agencies and are creating a complete system of culpability, full of chastity. You've all witnessed a loud scandal as if the mayor of the Highlands of Alexi Momot was being held on a huge, record bribe within Ukraine. You've seen how the Head of the SBU Service has shown so-called photographs throughout the country and talked about what is happening now, where the mayor of the SBU is getting bribes and it's all documented. In a court where I was two days in a row, all this proved to be a complete lie. All of these photos have nothing to do with the mayor's office, the mayor of High Town, where he and his cuffs are lying and so forth. The point is that certain persons were detained who, according to a statement made by a third party who seemed to say that the mayor of the Highlands had a relationship to it, became the main reason for the detention of this measure. The mayor of High Town was arrested in his office without handcuffs, without money. All these photos are pure fiction. This case is fabricated by those who have lost land in the city of Vyhgrad today after the mayor of Vyhgrad came along with a new team and decided to inventory all the lands. On February 26, a decision was made, after an inventory of 10 percent of the land of the Highlands, to cancel about 6 acres [6 ha] of land illegally owned by so - called landowners. After that, exactly five days later, UBOP removed the server, under what is called criminal supervision, with all the data on the land base in the city of Vishgrad. On April 1, an unknown person becomes the applicant’s deputy director of the claimant’s company. And it's already April 9th that criminal cases are being broken. I want to tell you that now we're with journalists investigating who might be involved and interested in this case. And it turns out the paths are growing to the head of the Kiev Land Department. And you know, in Kiev, no one is appointed, no one is appointed without one of the leaders of the opposition block of Ljovczyn. I want to say that all the names we're going to call today are on our subcommittee, which will take place at 1:00. It's an absolutely orderly affair, absolutely an orderly thing to do. And the names and beneficiary owners of those firms, and the persons involved. Dear colleagues! I want you and I to support the initiative to create a temporary commission of inquiry, to delegate our representatives from each faction. This is the competence of the NAB. NABIA alone should investigate the matter, not the district attorney’s office, which is trying to keep it in its own hands. We want the investigation to be fair, objective, and only fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u31	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u32	And only the National Anti-Corruption Office, along with the independent anti-corruption national prosecutor's office, should investigate the matter. We demand that we stop the abuse of the law enforcement agencies that today have been associated with criminality. To ensure justice and an objective investigation into all such resonant criminal cases. Because all of you, more than 300 people's deputies of democratic factions in Parliament, went to Parliament to change this system. I understand that Lewochkin is not interested. I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u33	Thank you. I ask that Derevyanka make a statement as a parliamentary request for special attention by law enforcement authorities and that they report on the case and that the Ukrainian Parliament be able to control the process. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, pay attention! We ended our hard day yesterday because we had representatives in the hall who demanded a review of the Law for the transfer of hostels to the property of local communities. Sadly, we were unable to do so yesterday. We had a very important task ahead of us. We were shouted: shame. People demand a decision and it's the right thing to do. And so I suggested today that I take it up with the first question. And now I'm going to start looking at it, but I would like those deputies who called me to ask questions, to call not only me, but also a faction colleague, so that there are enough people in the room to make a decision. It's going to be 10-15 minutes, second reading. I'm asking for maximum mobilization in the hall. So we are now going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to clarify the scope of application and to improve individual provisions for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities and to ensure the realization of housing rights by the legal residents of hostels) (1076). It's the second reading, and we're moving on. Second reading. And I invite you to the presentation, to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Šinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members, let me briefly report on the most relevant provisions of the second reading of the bill, registration number 1076 from 17.07.2015. Subjects of the legislative initiative, coauthors of Law 1076 - 23 national deputies. The need for the drafting and adoption of a bill is: systemic and mass violations of the housing rights of citizens who are forced to live in shelters of various forms of property; the imperfection of legal regulation at the legislative level of the housing rights of residents; the negative consequences of the illegal inclusion of housing in former state and municipal enterprises in statutory capitals of societies created in the process of mass privatization or corporateization in the 1990s, in fact, with residents of such hostels. The difficulties of legal residents who do not have their own housing and for more than 5 years are actually living in hostels granted by the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (number 500) of the right to privatize residential and non-residential housing. The law is supposed to be, but it is virtually impossible to do so. Bill No. 1076, which we are currently discussing with you in the second reading, is a harmonized bill prepared by a working group of guest houses that takes into account the professional and public discussions of the main drafts of the National MP Igor Vasyunika, the National MP Anton Yatzenk, the National Deputies Drozdik, Drauk and others, there is a large group, recommendations of experts in the areas of housing and civil law and constructive proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies. All the bills that were intended for amendments to Law No. 500, because there were small partial amendments, they were incomplete, we merged into one comprehensive bill, and we invited all the national MPs who were the authors of the seven bills, they refused, they all co-sponsored this harmonized comprehensive bill. Its aim is to make a substantial and comprehensive legislative improvement in the legal regulation of problem issues and the realization of housing rights of the residents of hostels by correcting disagreements and filling gaps in the legal regulation of relevant issues. The way to achieve the stated goal, the honourable colleagues, is to make changes and additions to the 500th Act of Ukraine, which I mentioned, "To ensure the realization of the housing rights of the residents of the dormitory", point-by-point reciprocal changes to the separate articles of the current Housing Code, as well as to the Civil Code, to Ukraine's Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Law", Ukraine's Law on Za zastava, Ukraine's Law on the Judicial Assembly." The state of passage of Bill No. 1076 in the first reading – November 11, 2015. Bill 1076 was prepared by the committee for consideration in the second reading. We considered 105 proposals for legislative initiatives to the bill. Of these, 76 are completely, partially, or editorially, and 29 are rejected. Every deviation, I'm ready to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u36	So a bill for more than a year at work and he's had a public discussion, it's very important because it's also a round table on 20 March 2015, it's also a committee hearing on 22 April 2015, a working group meeting and a committee, it doesn't need any more public discussion. Because he was involved in the work of representatives of all four U.S. public organizations that cared for the rights of the residents of the hostels, they joined the copyright company. In view of what has been said, please, your fellow Members, support the committee's proposals and adopt the bill (registration number 1076) in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there have been many rights to this bill. I will read only those who have been rejected. Andriy Vasilovich, please remain in the rostrum so that you can argue why the committee rejected these amendments. So number two, Eutusek. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Number 8, Chicken. Don't insist. Number 16, Yatzenka. Is it insisting? Please turn on the Jacek microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u38	Dear friends, indeed, there was a working group, and colleague Andriy Shinkovich did a very fruitful job, and this law will allow the residents of the hostels to stop being fortifications and get their own housing, not to be forced to do so now. So, for example, I'm a major with Umani, and that's what you do. So the work is so serious and I'm asking you to consider all my changes as rejecting the committee, so then the working group worked and I'm taking them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u39	Thank you for the constructive position. 19th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 27th, sale of Oksana. Don't insist, okay. 28th, Sold. Don't insist. 29th, Sold. Don't insist. 30th, Dove. Don't insist. 31st, Dove. Don't insist. 33rd Dove, don't insist. 36th, Sold, doesn't insist. 38th, Eutusek, don't insist. 39th, Whitey, don't insist. 45th, Sold, doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, we've got a quick, efficient job to do. Please call the deputies to the hall. A vote is about to take place. 47th, Sold, doesn't insist. 48th, Drozdick, don't insist. 53rd, Drozdick, don't insist. 54th, Yatzenka, has already announced that he does not insist. 56th, Yatzenka, said he didn't insist. 57th, Drozdick, don't insist. 58th, Babak, don't insist. 85th Dove, don't insist. 87th, Drozdick, don't insist. 88th, Drozdick, don't insist. 89th, Drozdick, doesn't insist. The '90s, Parasuk Volodya, don't insist. 92th, Sold, doesn't insist. 103rd, Eutusek, doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, good work, good work. I see, in fact, the proposals of all deputies were accepted. And all of the suggestions from the working group are also included in the second reading. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, engage in the work, and prepare for the vote. By the time the MPs come in, I've been giving Igor Vasyunika one minute from the author's team. Please, one minute, Igor Vasjunik. Let's go in, fellow officers of honor, to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. First of all, I want to thank from myself and from the representatives of the hostel who were on the balcony yesterday: you for the principle of the position that you put this bill in the first order of the day today. In fact, the problem is very simple. Indeed, in the process of privatization and corporateization of state-owned enterprises, these hostels were privatized, and people, in practice, became anchors in their own homes: they have no right to prescribe their children, they have double communal services, they live in terrible conditions, and they cannot privatize their decently earned few square meters of housing. I also want to say that unfortunately, for about four years now, this bill, through the anti-libies that are in Parliament and, in particular, in the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, this bill did not raise the necessary number of votes. I believe that today the entire room will unite around this bill. And those who won't vote in favour of this law I ask to spend at least a week in a dormitory looking at the conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u41	Thank you. As long as the MPs come in, the minute is the Jurassic and we go to the vote, in a minute's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleagues who have spoken in support of this very law, it's very important, it's long-awaited, there's probably no law that would have held so many round tables, discussions, reconciliations, it's very important. And today, really yesterday, these people who came from different parts of Ukraine, they were talking about their problem very loudly, standing on the balcony. They're waiting for this bill today, call your colleagues and friends who aren't sitting next to you because it's a very important bill for that simple Ukrainian who's waiting for justice today. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. You had a chance. a discussion of whether to ask questions. No, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word, but your faction is one of those factions that insists on me following the Rules. I will now give you my word and break it, but I will give it to you. Please turn on the microphone. Second reading, no second reading, no revision. Please give Babak one minute to give us a guarantee that Self-Help will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the law is extremely important, very thorough, we absolutely support it. But this is also pointed out by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that 91 National Deputy Shinkovic is in the right hand of the proposed amendment to article 25 prima. 1 The law provides that disputes concerning infringements of the property rights of the territorial communities should be dealt with by the courts on behalf of local self - government bodies without payment by the court. First of all, it's a violation, it's an amendment to the laws, because all matters relating to the judicial assembly have to be contained exclusively in the Law on the Judicial Assembly. And so we ask that, so that we don't break this law, its benefit, its weight, make a decision that in the 91st direction, changes in article 25 prim. 1 paragraph 2 has been deleted. In particular, remove links to that disputes about the violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u45	I'm ready to answer. Dear colleagues, the Honorable Alan Valerievne, we have also made a change in our law to the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly. But I agree with you that this is a European practice: everyone has to pay for the court. I can't cancel my application anymore, so I'm asking you to put it in the hall for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u46	Dear reporter, you can mark for the stenogram what you are editing. And we can just vote with your observation by one vote, which you'll be sounding under the transcript. Please, very briefly. We made a decision. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Taking into account the debate on this issue, I recall the part of the bill that says "no payments to the court," so I edit it, and I ask you to take this into account in the protocol when making the decision in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no alarms, right? Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. Your Honor, you can take your place. Do you have a card here? If you have a card here, you can be here. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to clarify the scope of application and to improve individual provisions for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities and to ensure the realization of housing rights by the legal residents of hostels) (No. 1076) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, vote. [[11:04:02]] For 252 Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors, to the whole copyright team that's been working so hard, and to the people who've been calling out to us, say hello, we love them, we support them. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have a chapter that is very important to us, colleagues. This is the assignment of the local elections, a decision that cannot be made without our decision. So, dear fellows, I will continue to urge you to stay in the workplace, there will be a series of votes to be held. And I want to do one more message. I was corrected by my fellow MPs, the Radical Party corrected me, the Crimean judges from March didn't pay their wages. When I informed you about this, I just didn't have the exact information, the Ukrainian state gave a very correct move and we didn't pay the judges the salary, as was said. So we're moving on to the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections, and I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Boyko Olenna Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meetings on February 17 and March 30 this year has considered a total of 22 issues of individual local councils on the appointment of out-of-order elections of one village and 21 rural heads in connection with the timely suspension of their powers in accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The reasons for the permanent termination of these heads are as follows. As you wish, in connection with the application to the appropriate council, 18 cases involving death are four cases. Relevant draft regulations are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with registration numbers 4181 – 4181-21. Since these projects were not considered in the session hall in time, the local election law committee reviewed the dates of the election proposed earlier in May 22 and June 5. And I endorsed the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when considering draft regulations 4181 and 4181-21, to adopt them as a basis and as a whole, by changing the date of election in these projects to 26 June 2016. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Committee has decided to postpone the consideration of Decrees 4181-17 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Soviet Rural Head of the Soviet Council of the Berdichov Region of the Žitomir Region in connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council Decision on the change of the village of Radjansk to the village of Romanovka. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have to go to the vote, right? By every decision. Helen Petrovna, we don't report every decision anymore, we just vote, right? How many votes, please report to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u51	21 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u52	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u53	21 votes. First Order 4181 "On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Hobultov Rural Head, Hobultov Village Council of Vladimir Volin Region of Volin Region." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, 21 votes. Please come into the hall, get ready. So, first Order 4181, in general. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[11:08:19]] For 206 Dear colleagues, come on, I see the MPs have questions. Attention, attention, attention! I think there's a need to have a discussion. I think the decisions are technical, but if, I see there's a wish for a speech, I suggest. Wait a minute, now, now. Dear colleagues, if there is a need for discussion, it is not by raising your hand but by recording. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please, colleagues, please record. The exhale conveys the word of Igor Guza. Yeah? Igor Gus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u55	Good afternoon! Igor Goose, 19th District. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you all as soon as we've failed the vote in the village of Hobultova, it's in my constituency. There is no village head and village dwellers in a village for six months, and the village council is asking for an election. Colleagues, what's the reason you don't vote? Please. There are no obstacles. Allow the village to get a village head. There is a process of unifying the territorial community; there is no policy. The head failed to handle his duties, resigned, and wants to work. So, colleagues, I beg you all to vote for this decision. I don't see the logic or the argument against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Martovicki, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u57	Deputy Martovicki, 36th constituency, please give the floor to the People's Deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u58	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will support the decision to hold another local elections at all the local locations that have been put forward by the committee, because all Ukrainians have the constitutional right to choose their local authority. At the same time, colleagues, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that 400,000 people living in controlled Ukraine, I emphasize, is Ukraine's controlled territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, still deprived of the right to choose their own local authority. The constitutional powers of the local authorities in this area, as in the rest of Ukraine, ended in October 2015, but Ukraine has not yet held elections there. This is about cities as big as Constantine's, such as Artemusk, such as Byrjinsk, such as Volnovaha. In particular, I have a question for the respectable Helen Petrovna. I know that the committee discussed, in particular, the appointment of city heads in the city of Volnovah. And the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council in Volnovas hold an election. Why aren't these elections being held right now? And anyway, we agreed that the security issue would be re-examined. And we'll make a decree to hold local elections in the controlled Ukraine of the territory of Donbas, wherever possible. And when this decision is made on the committee and put into the hall, we will also ask it to support it. And I'm asking you to answer about Walnovah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u59	Let's hear all the speeches, and then there'll be your closing statement and you'll explain. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Yesterday's working day, we helped the Supreme Council adopt the most important bills with only three factions: Self-help, Fatherhood and the Radical Party, because you had 160 votes. Today we have 100 percent confirmation of the absence of a coalition. While we're adding votes. The People's Front gave, out of 68 registered, 58 to this vote. And Peter Dustenka's Block of 115 registered people is 85. And so either give us your 226 votes that you have in the coalition, or don't rely on those that you don't see, and say, if you're in the coalition, you're enemies of Ukraine. Show yourself who the enemy of Ukraine is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Olena Petrovna. And we're going to the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, those drafts on the appointment of out-of-court elections that we are considering with you today, under number 4181, are essentially technical, there is no political issue. Either this is because of the death of a permanent suspension of the authority of a rural, rural head, or because of its own desire, in connection with the application. Hence, there is no political or prejudiced or unjust decision in this list. As for the elections in Donetsk and Lugansk. In accordance with the Law on Military Civil Administrations, the right to determine the possibility, the appropriateness and the security of carrying out them belongs to them. And according to them, you know that we've been addressing military civilian administrations, their recommendations, their conclusions, today's city of Volnobach, for as long as it's being considered. He's not in the living room today. Please, I'm begging you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u63	Thank you. I also feel that these things do not need to be linked. We'll make the following decisions, prepare them. We are all behind this, and that in Volnovas our citizens, our brothers had the full right to vote and to choose their own power. And so, dear colleagues, I'm asking for the general support of the hall. Because the question of the fate of people, as was the case with the dormitories, the question of the constitutional right to choose, it's not a matter of coalition or opposition, it's a question of the state, it's a question of Ukraine. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, and be responsible, responsible for the vote. Colleagues, we don't have to go back to Decree 4181. Because this decision is abnormal, and we can just re-vote it, but I very much ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take up jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? 21 decrees, very important. And I once again put to the vote, colleagues, the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Hobult Village Council of Volodymyr Volin district of Volin County (No.4181) as a whole. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. [[11:17:00]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Society, I'm going to put it again and then they're going to tell me I'm going to put it to seven votes. Colleagues, let's get together and work. Please. I'm putting again the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 4181 as a whole. Please vote. Return is not necessary, we vote 4181. [[11:17:47]] For 249 Decision taken. Next. Ms. Helena, can I just call these decisions and vote? We can, right? Then I call. The next decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sartan village head of the Mariupol City Council of the Donetsk Region (4181-1), as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:18:31]] For 247 It's been decided. The next Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Assignment of the Elections of the Novotroitsk Rural Head of the Krasnoarmsk Region (4181-2), in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:19:10]] For 248 It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Veryatsky Rural Head of the Veryatsky Rural Council of the Provincial district of Zakarpatsk Region (4181-3) in general. Vote. [[11:19:41]] For 249 It's been decided. Next. By the parties? Turn on the parties, let's show a unifying moment. All factions vote yes, and that's a good indicator for the effectiveness of Parliament's work. The next is the appointment of the election of the Upper Obstrian Rural Head, the Upper Obstrian Rural Council of the Mižgir district of Zakarpaty (4181-4), as a whole. Please vote. [[11:20:29]] For 249 It's been decided. Next on the appointment of the successive elections of the Seraphine Rural Head, the Seraphine Rural Council of the City of Ivano-Frankov Region (4181-5), as a whole. Vote. [[11:20:58]] For 243 Let's see the factions. 243 – "for", decree adopted. Next, on the appointment of the successive elections of the Zguryov Rural Council of the Zguryov District District of Kyiv (4181-6). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please. [[11:21:36]] For 225 There's no objection in the hall. Society, it's a simple failure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remind you, there's no need for a return procedure. They don't need any questions. Once again, I ask you to concentrate on the MPs. On the appointment of consecutive elections, the Zgurivian Rural Council of the Kyiv Region (4181-6). Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:22:26]] For 252 It's been decided. Show by factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next, on the appointment of the draft election of the Neznań village head of the Kamyanka-Buzki Rural Council of the Lviv Region (4181-7). Please vote in general. [[11:23:01]] For 258. It's been decided. Next, on the appointment of the successive election of the village head of Lochvitsky district of Poltava region, 4181-8. In general, we vote. [[11:23:33]] For 255 It's been decided. Next, on the appointment of the alternate election of the Vilnius Rural Head of the Council of the Chutov district of Poltava. Chutowski, I'm sorry, the Chutov district of Poltava County (4181-9) in general. Please vote. Apologize to the half-wrecks. [[11:24:11]] For 249 It's been decided. Next, on the appointment of the second-in-command election of the Artillen Rural Head (Artillen Village Council of the Kharkiv Region) of the Lozov region of the Kharkiv region (4181-10) as a whole. Please vote. [[11:24:46]] For 249 It's been decided. Next. You fellows, correct me, although of Kharkushka, my mother, but I can't know all the locations in Ukraine, help me. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Sienese Rural Head, the Sienese Rural Council of the Kharkiv district of Bogoduh district of Kharkiv (4181-11) in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:25:28]] For 254 It's been decided. Next, on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Zavadina Rural Head of the Council of Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk district, 41. Isiaslavsky, Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk district, 4181-12) in general. Please vote. [[11:26:02]] For 254 It's been decided. Next: Demkow village council of the Drabov district of the Cherkas region. (4181-13). In general. Please vote. [[11:26:35]] For 254 It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Osijek Rural Head (Oscitnian Rural Council of the Christian Region of Cherkas) (4181-14). In general. Please vote. [[11:27:06]] For 256 It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Stodola Rural Head, the Stodola Rural Council of the Nizhin district of Chernigiv. (4181-15). In general. Please vote. [[11:27:36]] For 258. It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Prominian Rural Head of the Lutsky District of Volin Region (4181-16). Please vote on who supports this decision. Vote. [[11:28:10]] For 256 It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Soviet Rural Head. Yeah, we're putting that question down, it's kind of a weird name. Agreed? We're going to have decommunization -- then we're going to have an election. Thank you for your support. It is the request of the committee to postpone, Mr. Igor, it is the request of the committee to postpone. Please, Mrs. Olena, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the decision of the committee to postpone the 4181-17 decision. There's actually been a rename, and we've already voted for it, and already the Soviet will be called a different one. But the point is that in order to complete this process, we need to look at this issue and the district council, and that's exactly what they're working on. When the process is legally completed, we will return to this issue in order to properly assign elections to the right neighborhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u65	Thank you. The committee head said -- we're just about to come up with a decision by the district council, we're going to vote right now. Colleagues, two more orders, please, we're working. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Azov Rural Head of the Azov Rural Council of the Rozov Region or the Rozov Region, who knows, Zaporez Region (4181-18). Vote please, colleagues. [[11:30:02]] For 233 It's been decided. Next. With regard to the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Gjunj village head of the Council of the Primorski District of Zaporozhye, (4181-19) as a whole. Please vote. [[11:30:32]] For 238. It's been decided. The appointment of the new spa head of the Novospas Rural Council of the Priazova District of Zaporez Region (4181-20) as a whole. Please vote. [[11:31:03]] For 246 It's been decided. And on the appointment of the successive elections of the Alexanderian Rural Head of the Council of Alexandria of the Priazov district of Zaporez Region (4181-21). Vote please, colleagues. [[11:31:36]] For 251 It's been decided. Thank you, committee. Thank you, fellow MPs, for your important work. Local communities were waiting for us to make a decision. And welcome to the local communities, we wish them fair democratic elections in our populace. Colleagues, our next one in the daytime is to make a decision on the issues under discussion. We had a social day yesterday, but we did not consider a number of social projects due to the fact that many laws followed the procedure. And some of them have been moved to this day. One of them is actually making a decision from the question under discussion. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing responsibility for the employment of people with disabilities. We've already discussed it, it's just about making a decision. But in our tradition, we'll give the committee head a minute to remind us of the bill. And let me ask you, Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich, one minute to remind us of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u66	The main purpose of this law is to resolve sanctions for employers not taking on the work of persons with disabilities. I'll only get one number. In 15 years more than 500 million administrative bracelets were written off by decision of the courts. So today's legislation gives the courts an opportunity, I don't want to call anyone corrupt, but we all know what they are, to make decisions not in favour of persons with disabilities. Please therefore support this law in its first reading. And secondly, everyone who wishes to give and participate in the drafting of the bill will be asked to join the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u67	Mr. Alexander, two factions came to see me and asked me to make some adjustments. I think that in order for you to be able to be consolidated in the hall, I think the hall won't object if I give you two factions -- George and Cugel -- in one minute. Please, Mr. George, from the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u68	Comrades, good afternoon! The support of the disabled is of course very important. The creation of market mechanisms to enable people with limited capacity to find themselves in this life is certainly important. But that's not what this law is about. Each of you, when you talk to your supporters in the districts, tells us that he's going to create jobs and develop an economy. So this tax law is extra to the workplace. Think about it: Whether you have applied to a social security agency, you have a job created, and you have disabled people for employment. Regardless of the fact that the social security agency did not act or send you anyone for employment. Despite the fact that there are simply no disabled people in this region in the amount needed, you will have to pay the fine. And it's an exclusive law. Please, there are disabled people, there is no— pay the fine. The social security agency is working, it's not working, pay the fine. Sorry, that doesn't help these people. So we suggest that we bring this bill back to the committee and work on it carefully to make it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u69	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u70	So that we can actually work with you on high-quality mechanisms for employing people with disabilities and creating market conditions for businesses to engage them in work. Instead of adding extra taxes and destroying actual jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Alexandra Kugel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u72	One hundred percent by supporting your colleague in the democratic coalition. The opposition. And what I'm saying is that we're democratic, we're giving you votes. I mean, this law doesn't touch people with disabilities. I'm paying attention to the committee, Mr. Tretlyakov, that my 1400 bill is registered, listen, in November of 14, they didn't bring up the procedure that Mr. George was talking about. We need to change our standards first, and today the disabled should find their own place of work. Please tell me where he can go. That's the first one. The other one. Who allowed the state to break the Constitution and speak does not employ disabled people but entrepreneurs. Why? We who can't create opportunities for disabled people in government institutions. And the third question. We should have a register of disabled people in every area. We have to educate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u73	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u74	And then give you the opportunity to work. If an entrepreneur is given a prepared disability, he will always help. For example, NewsOne TV, I thank them for the fact that a girl with disabilities is working as a manager today. And he doesn't need to be fined, that's not why he created it. Everyone can help the disabled, but the state must create conditions instead of raising funds and then walk on them with a disability fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Colleagues! Okay. Society! I've seen what I want, I've given my word. Please, who will speak from you? Turn on the microphone, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u76	Matvienkov, 57 district. Dear colleagues! We have considered the bill as carefully as possible on the faction. And we are well aware of the full measure of responsibility that today lies in Parliament in terms of working truly with people who are limited to their physical capacity, persons with disabilities. But we also understand that this bill is an attack on looting, which has already been on several occasions in Ukraine. Instead of allowing the State and the Government to deal with the UTOS today, UTOGami are organizations that have indeed provided jobs for persons with disabilities who have actually carried out a government order, buried them today, dumped them, if that can be said. Instead, those enterprises that create jobs are now under additional pressure. You'll think about it, businesses that have lists, first list, second list -- what jobs can be created in a marten, in a conversion shop and so on, and so on. Let us, in the end, not play with these things now, not create an additional burden on business, but clearly deal with persons with disabilities, people who really need protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Alexander Trelyakow, one minute. And on that end, society. Give it to me. Too long a question has already been discussed. One minute, Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u78	This law is exactly the same in the EU countries. In EU countries, between 2 and 10 per cent of entrepreneurs are required to take on disabled persons in all countries. I know when the committee took place, they came from the Firthash fund. Really. And they even offered money just to get this bill. That's true. I don't want this bill to be passed. We're going to find a bunch of reasons why we shouldn't help the disabled. Because in one, it is said that the areas are less populated by persons with disabilities than in another. Believe me, there are so many disabled people in the areas that God gives if we employ them. And unfortunately, when the ATO goes through, and our medicine, which leaves the best in it, does not reduce the number of people with disabilities in the country. But all the big employers don't want to do that. Therefore, it is the duty of the State to force, and I am also a former businessman, employers to take disabled persons to work. Of course that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the first reading of the amendments. So we'll be able to make all the adjustments in the future. But I can see that there is no consolidated position in the room. Fatherland doesn't vote, does it? Self-help? Vote, right, Self-help? Vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please encourage the deputies to take up their jobs. Let us move on to a decision on the bill. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on increasing the responsibility of people with disabilities (No.2299a) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:41:54]] For 169 The decision is not made. Colleagues, can we send you to the committee for work? I'm making an offer to return Bill 2299a to the committee for further elaboration. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the committee for further work. [[11:42:27]] For 185 The decision is not made. I'm making the final offer to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Anyone who supports the proposal to return the draft Law, Law 22,99a, to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:58]] For 214 The decision is not made. So the bill of Law 2299a is declared rejected. And then we have a series of drafts for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. And I've been approached by a lot of MPs, so let's go through each one of them right now we're going to make a decision in order to be in the Chamber of Deputies. I'll give you my word. Let's, society, let's make a deal, is there a chapter, or are we going after each one, or first by word of factions, and then by each? According to the factions, fine. According to the factions, please raise your hand first, the Radical Party of Galasjuk, then raise your hand "self-help", then "Fatherhood", then all those who wish. Please, Halasyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u80	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we propose to include five extremely important bills in the agenda of the 4329 bill, to amend the draft law on free annual medical examination, to distribute senior citizens in Ukraine, to amend article 78 of the Constitution on the creation of political premeditations for the sustainable operation of the Cabinet of Ministers, 4,216 of the Law on the Resistance to Illegal Abduction and Seizure of Households, 4365 of the Act on the Change of the State Budget for 2016 on the Stopping of the Transfer of Property of State Occupational Technical Institutions to Municipal Property, 4,442 of the Law on Status, Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on Retirement. Five very important bills, let us include them now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u81	Thank you. I am the only one asking the machine to complete the consideration of this question to find out if there are committees on them, and if there are committees, I will immediately put them, along with others, into the agenda. Please, Mr. Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way in order for us to have laws that are governmental. It does not appear, although there is a bill on the change of the electoral system in the country, there is no bill to change the system for the selection of a high-quality Attorney General, which the President of Ukraine could introduce to Parliament, and there are no quality laws that would change the fiscal service in a country that today will become a contempt for entrepreneurs, including Law 3448, and many others. Once again, the law on TSC does not appear. We will not vote for those laws. For this order of days, until the fundamental laws of the Supreme Council are established.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone from Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, to be honest, I would very much like to count on the new quality of Parliament's work and the new quality of making the agenda. And that's why I insist on behalf of the faction that the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions be placed in the order of the day. He passed the committee, he has all the conclusions, all the leaders of the faction of the former democratic coalition in the authors, and this is the law that needs to be passed immediately. Secondly, we're asking for two bills on de-offshorization that give plus 68 billion dollars of budget revenue -- 4130 and 4131. These are just urgent bills if we're going to set things straight. In addition, we draw your attention to a series of agrarian bills: 2791, 2052, 3006 is that. and 4438 is what farmers need. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Tetjana Blackwall's People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u86	The People's Front calls for Ukraine's State to work together and adopt a bill of 4057 as a whole – a call to the State budget for the arrested funds of the Yanukovic regime. Again, I'm going to say that it's almost 50 billion dollars. This year, the funds will be in the State Budget and will start working for the state of Ukraine. That's 8 million now. Billions! The 8 billion we need now to defend, to modernize and buy weapons. This will enable teachers to double their wages in Ukraine. That's going to take 14 billion. And I'm going to point out to the people here that this is our disgrace. The level of salary for teachers in Ukraine is now so low that it's our disgrace, it's the personal disgrace of every deputy, and, you know, majors, it's these teachers who were campaigning for you. So I urge the Supreme Council to take responsibility for its responsibilities and direct the country's budget now this year, these.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u87	Please. Thank you very much. From the Opposition Block, Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the distinguished people of Ukraine, today on the agenda, we will now vote, and an important bill (4,130) is included under the authority of the “Batakshina” Party, which deals with the healing of the “Yushmasha”. The most important issue that the bill contains is the transfer of credit payments, the Sea Launch, which took Yusmash for 2020. But the problem is that there can no longer be a "Yushmasha" in 2020 unless other bills are passed. The parental bill was introduced in just two weeks. At the same time, six months ago, we registered a package of bills: 2193 (a), 2194 (a), 2195 (a) and 2195 (b). These bills provide for earmarked funding for payroll payments to Yusmashe. Further, public procurement, financing, updating of the Yusmash logistics base and a whole range of other activities aimed at supporting the space and missile industry, etc.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u89	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u90	and space-related sciences. We will certainly support the Fatherland bill on restructuring the loan, but we insist on introducing our bills on repayment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u91	Thank you. So all those desirous of factions came forward with the order of the day. I'd like to give you a message, colleagues. The formation of the agenda is neither a bountiful nor a political issue at all. This is a matter that is regulated by the law of Ukraine, which may be included in the agenda. I would like to read to you in particular article 93, "Pre-examination of Bills, Projects, Other Acts on Committees": "The Main Committee shall not later than 30 days in advance consider a bill, a draft of another act, and adopt the conclusion that it is appropriate to include it in the agenda of the Supreme Council." Without the committee's proposals, without the committee's position, I can't put him on the bill list. I respect the position of fellow MPs both from Self-Help and Fatherland, but, with your permission, I'm going to put these questions to the vote. They're going to vote -- they're going to dial, they're not going to dial -- they're not going to be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, the discussion on this subject has been concluded. I'm asking you to come in and take your jobs, get ready for the vote. Although I can see we're not going to have a successful vote. It will, won't it? Well, then, let's do it. Because there are political differences over a number of bills, but we will each vote separately. Perhaps some of them will unite the hall. Ready to go to work? Then I'll start. First: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the territorial legal regime that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster (4437). Who supports the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:52:44]] For-173 173 for. The decision is not made. The following is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the financing of reconstruction, the current repair of road traffic for the general use of public value throughout Ukraine (4214, 4214-1, 4214-2). Who supports the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:53:28]] For 177 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Decision concerning the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Higher Service Corps Commission (4459). We may unite, association, around it, the strength and power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting in favour of the draft decree 4459 appointing a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be composed of the High Staff of the State Service, which supports the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[11:54:21]] For-164 The decision is not made. Next. 4130, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Engineering Plant O.M. Makarov", 4130. Anyone who supports the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session, please vote, please. [[11:54:58]] For-191 The decision is not made. 4018, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (in support of enterprises and organizations of social organizations of persons with disabilities), 4018. Whoever supports the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of this matter, please vote. Please vote. [[11:55:39]] For-183 The decision is not made. 4051, "For State social assistance to people who do not have the right to a pension and to disabled persons" to help the children of a dead breadwinner who has not acquired the right to a pension in life. 4051, who is in favour of the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:56:19]] For 206 The decision is not made. 2409a, draft Law on the Principles of State Health Policy 2409a, in favour of including this issue in the agenda of the session, please vote. [[11:56:49]] For 180. The decision is not made. 4034, draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Addressing Problems in Natural Gas Supply. 4034, who supports the inclusion of the draft law in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[11:57:20]] For 171 The decision is not made. And the last of this chapter is the question. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform in Ukraine. The Committee’s submission project was handed over on 14 April. This Regulation shall enter 4406, who supports the inclusion of the draft decision in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote. I'm sorry, vote off! I'm sorry, the chapter's over. I just have, it's... This is a resolution that we will consider immediately after the end of this chapter. Respectful colleagues apparently put political differences to the vote. We're going to have to discuss them and figure out what to do. And I think, Mr. Oleg, Julia Volodymyrna, this will be the subject of our conversation tonight. I'm going to hope that everyone today will gather at 6 p.m., the heads of factions, to talk about the fundamental things of our work, to remove certain differences so that they don't become political differences, the important bills didn't go against our political debates. And, dear fellows, I would like us to address these challenges without delay. I hope many of them today will be able to decide. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. And I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 12:30, and we have extremely important social legislation. Packs we didn't look at yesterday. I'm asking everyone to demonstrate, as we've demonstrated so far, that Wednesday can be a full-time work day. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. Dear colleagues, we have a day-to-day proposal for a Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Health Health Reform in Ukraine". But I don't see Olga's reporter, the Mantis. So since there is no report, we go to the next question of chapter, because without a report, we cannot address the question. Let's move on to the next question. These health - care requirements were for us to review health - care bills. When it comes to health, we cannot consider it. It's sad. It's sad and it's too bad. We next have our first reading, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (to eliminate discrimination against citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear testing and military training using nuclear weapons) (3281). There are suggestions from the National MP to consider a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the motion to review the shortened procedure for draft Law 3281. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:35:51]] Z-77 The decision is not made. There is a requirement for a full hearing room. Maxim Yuriovich. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. The question has already begun, Mrs. Ola. I remind you, we have a 12:30 break, and the question is already under consideration. Please, Maxime Yuriovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u93	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, you are invited to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to eliminate discrimination against citizens who have participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, in nuclear trials, in military training with the use of nuclear weapons, registration number 3281. The social protection of citizens who have been trained in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear testing and military training with the use of nuclear weapons to the level of social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is increasing. As a result of numerous citizens' appeals, more are disabled and elderly people who have participated in the elimination of nuclear accidents, in nuclear tests and military training with the use of nuclear weapons, as well as in the conversion of widows of the listed citizens to executive and judicial authorities through discriminatory treatment, there is a need for comparable citizens to citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The total number of people with benefits and compensations is 4 thousand 186. This is a fundamental question for each of them because social justice needs to be restored. The draft Act provides for changes to the name, chapters and articles of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, as part of the dissemination of the rules of articles 1, 9, 14, 48 of the law, to citizens involved in the liquidation of other nuclear accidents, in nuclear tests in military training using nuclear weapons. And articles 20, 21, 22 give wives whose lives are linked to the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear tests, military training with the use of nuclear weapons, benefits and compensation according to the law. The adoption of the bill will make it impossible to discriminate and increase the social protection of citizens who have participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear testing and military training with nuclear weapons, which will relieve the social tension of the listed categories of citizens. The extra pressure on the government budget is only 7 million dollars a year. Please support the bill, given that we'll be celebrating a sad date for days is 30 years from the day of the Chernobyl disaster. And what I want to add is that I was personally approached by a representative of a public organization that unites these citizens, mostly disabled people who simply want to restore social justice. Because in the days of the Soviet Union these facts were silent, that there were both nuclear tests and that there were experiments, and that there were other nuclear accidents associated with the radiation source, and that people suffered thereafter. That's why I'm asking the entire room to support this bill. The money is small, I repeat, it's 7 million dollars a year, and that only applies to 4,000 186 people. I mean, thank you for supporting the entire room. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes to ask the reporter. Please record for questions to the rapporteur. Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u95	Your Honor, here's a bill that will really contribute to the restoration of social justice to those victims who did not take part in the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster but were directly involved in other nuclear trials. This, of course, is necessary. Because beta-, gamma radiation doesn't depend on where it's damaged. But on the other hand, the factions of the Opposition Block would like to know whether or not you will support the repeal of the Ukrainian Budget Act for the current year, which you cancelled and suspended the benefits to, in fact, the Chernobyls. These are the many thousands of Chernobylites who live in the territory of Ukraine. As far as this category is concerned, of course. And after the benefits are restored, will you do something now? Until the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. This bill will eventually restore social justice with regard to this category of persons. And in other bills, we will have support for voting on all the socially important bills that will be tabled in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u98	For more than 10 years, this category of people advocates their rights to benefit from the same benefits as those involved in the Chernobyl disaster. But, Mr. Burbak, who must be cynicism, that when you led the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u99	I didn't run the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u100	I'm sorry, your prime minister, on all budget issues, you've taken away all the benefits of black people, they're practically nonexistent. So we have to say today that we're bringing people into the neighborhood, but it's completely empty, and there's no benefits. They get, yes, hurrah, we get hooked up, not knowing that we don't give the niggers any treatment, the pensions they had, the payouts, they take all the tickets, and they say we're going to give the money, we don't give anything, and the Chernobyls meet here every day, and under the Supreme Council, and the letters write. And so, honestly, we're joining people, we're the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u101	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u102	Thank you for asking and asking. I can say that I also meet with the Chernobylites, who are sorry, but they're waiting under the walls of the Supreme Council to bring their pain and their problems to all the MPs, and I'm talking to them too. And take it one step at a time to restore their rights, especially before such a terrible date, so we will do everything. But let's be honest that if there's going to be a budget overrun, then there's going to be money to be distributed, and if there's not, I understand, some benefits have been cut. Let's re-establish it gradually while the economy is running.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u103	Thank you. We can also make one statement for the questions, Besbach Jakovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u104	Thank you very much. I want to thank you, of course, for adopting this law, for putting this law out, although, in fact, it was then that all these benefits were taken away. Tell me, please, do I feel like we're making all these decisions as if we're humiliating, do we have all the money for it? We've been working on social issues for a week, giving people benefits, and I don't think there's any money for that. Tell me, please, it's already been read, isn't it? That's 7 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. And once again, I want to emphasize that the category of individuals, it counts. which will receive benefits and compensation in accordance with this bill, is 4,000 186 people and the sum of about 7 million dollars is calculated. So that's what this money is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u106	Thank you very much, dear colleagues, the time for questions to be answered is running out. Thank you very much, Mr. Maxim. And I invite you to see the report by Ribak John Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u107	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting on 3 February 2016 considered an amended bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (to eliminate discrimination against citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear testing and military training with the use of nuclear weapons) under registration number 3281, submitted by national deputies Burbak Maxim Juryovich and Moskalenko Jaroslav. According to current legislation, citizens who have participated in the elimination of nuclear accidents and other relevant jobs have already been assigned to the first, third and third categories, respectively, but without being declared injured. The bill proposes to extend the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents and trials, in military training with the use of nuclear weapons in part of the benefits and guarantees provided to victims of the Chernobyl disaster to persons. The lack of recognition of such persons is causing complaints of social injustice by the State toward its citizens. In fact, there has been a discriminatory situation with regard to those who in their time have experienced significant radiation exposure and have been deprived of social protection. As of 01.01.2016, there were indeed 4,000 such citizens, most of them disabled and elderly. With a view to removing social tension, the bill proposes to extend the provisions of articles 1, 9, 14, 48 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents and jobs and to compare them with those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Articles 20, 21 and 22 provide for the right to wives of deceased citizens whose death is linked to the elimination of other nuclear accidents and jobs, provided that they have not been married or who have not been married for the second time, to receive benefits and compensation in accordance with the law. According to the financial and economic calculations and the justification given in the explanatory note to the bill, the bill. The adoption of the bill requires additional costs at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget – about 7 million dollars. The main scientific and expert administration does not object to the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Our committee also made the following decision: to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (to eliminate discrimination against citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear testing and military training with the use of nuclear weapons) (registration number 3281). The committee requests that the draft law be supported on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who has a question for a coconspirator? Please hold the record and please log in. Please. Andrew Illenko, please. That's a question, yes, it's not a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u109	Yeah, I'd like that. Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It really needs a bill. In fact, it is regrettable that today the Ukrainian State is unable to provide real benefits to black people because of its policy of authority. This is a huge problem — no benefits, no guarantees. But what I'd like to say is, you know, what it really is is the restoration of justice. Because the Soviet Union was a state that destroyed its own citizens, especially nuclear testing, as in 1954, Zhukov conducted at the Totsky range, when 50,000 soldiers and officers were simply used as live targets for nuclear bombing and then radiation, because they were near the nuclear explosion that was taking place. And it was people who got huge diseases then, huge, life-long problems, many died. And, indeed, we need other similar cases, and now we need to restore historical justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u110	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u111	I want to answer, in part, to complete this report. The fact that the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster is now under consideration for the submission of more than 30 drafts by the National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which relate to the social benefits and the issues of Chernobyl and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I would also like to remind everyone that there are many other objects in Ukraine today, such as the Yellow Waters, such objects as Dniprodj yinsk, where, in fact, people are suffering as a result of activities in these enterprises, former activities in these enterprises. So this is a very topical question. And once again, I ask you to support today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we have to admit that, in fact, all the social guarantees and benefits that were provided to the black people, and especially during the Soviet Union, and especially during the 10-year existence of Ukraine's independence, they're folded, they're not actually functioning. I have a specific question. I realize that the draft law applies to that category of citizens who do not refer to the Chernobyl disaster, but the benefits are similar. You're going to give them benefits when all the basic social benefits and guarantees that apply to the Ukrainian Social Protection Act are stopped by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2016. As a member of the faction, are you going to make a proposal to abolish this disgraceful norm that has actually frozen all social benefits for all black people and, in particular, for that category of citizens that are being considered in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. I would also like to remind all my distinguished colleagues in this room that, literally recently, until the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, together with you, we have supported an important bill to return those social benefits that we wanted to return to the victims of the disaster, as a minimum. But so far, the President has been vetoed. You know, it seems to me that it's not exactly up to our committee as it is up to you and our colleagues who are not in this room today, because if there were a certain number of people in this room that would be needed to overcome this veto, I think the veto would be overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u115	Thank you. Question time is up. Thank you, Ivan Petrovich. Now we're going to the next chapter, these are statements from factions for 3 minutes. Dear colleagues who wish to speak from the factions of Parliament, please record by clicking on the button. Please log in. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u116	Sergey Kaplin, 144th District of Poltava. I would like to point out that both 7 million dollars, and in fact the list of those probably social aids that will be given after the adoption of this bill, are absolutely nothing for those people who have become, or have been, victims, or have eliminated this scourge, the tragedy of this century. We have to be very careful about what these people have done about the feat that these people have done, saving the planet in fact. This is a small number of people, especially my dead, dead father. And I want to say that we're going to be really a fully civilized state and a good parliament, when in every case we're in relation to the Chernobylites, in relation to the Afghans, in relation to the children of war, in relation to the other categories that we've been victims of, the hostages of the difficult socio-economic situation in our country, the tragedies that our country has experienced in 25 years, we're going to treat with respect, respect and above all with concern. It's very good that we're essentially paying attention to the problem on the eve of this year's anniversary. But people under the walls of the Supreme Council, under the Kabmin, under the President's Administration, under district administration, all these years waiting for their attention, waiting for real help, real care. Are there funds in the state to solve the problems of these people? I think it's a crime to say that there are no such funds and resources or solutions. We have a very serious smuggling operation in the country. We still have so - called tax pits. So far, we are the leaders of corruption in post-Radians space. And that's billions and billions of dollars. These are tens of billions of dollars, some of which could have been addressed if these challenges were met. I believe that it is the duty of the State to make every parliamentarian responsible for the struggle to help them. Obviously, we have to vote on this bill. And I really wanted the many parliamentary hearings that we have from year to year, from month to month, to be translated into real laws. And these laws were voted out, and these laws were provided with budgetary resources. And every person, after all, felt that we weren't just talking about this problem, that we weren't just paying attention in one of the days, in one of the weeks, in some sign date, but what we really care about is the family of every neighborhood and every neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u117	Thank you. From Self-Help, the word is given to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u119	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u120	Honorary colleagues, a bill aimed at ensuring the proper level of social protection of citizens who had participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, also for citizens who had participated in nuclear testing with nuclear weapons and in granting benefits and compensation to the husband/wife of a dead participant in the elimination of nuclear accidents. And this is an extremely important bill. And the self-help faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. But, my fellow Members, I would like to emphasise that it would be very important that those norms that are adopted in the walls of Parliament do not become empty rules of existing legislation, and for people none of this happens. Why do I say that? Because this year's adopted state budget for 2016 provides for a state programme on comprehensive health care and cancer treatment using high-value medical technologies for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, the program was transferred from the Ministry of Social Policy to the Ministry of Health. At the same time, the transfer of this national programme has not changed the Cabinet of Ministers Decision 134 and there has been no change in the manner in which the funds provided for in the State budget for comprehensive health care and cancer treatment have been used by citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster with high-cost medical technologies. So if the government doesn't make an urgent change to regulation 134, the regions won't be able to get those funds that are already allocated to the state budget. If these funds do not receive the region, the benefits will not be available to Ukrainian citizens who have the right to do so. And what's important is that these funds are allocated to the government budget for this year. So I'm asking you very much to still have the rule of law that we're taking to make the most of it, they're actually giving those social benefits and they're actually paying those citizens that we're voting for right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u121	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u122	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. By the way, Ravenska and my district, where I was elected as a national deputy, refer to those areas that were affected by the Chernobyl accident. The Chernobyl accident. I'm going to say right away that the Fatherland faction will support this bill, where it is settled that citizens who have participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents, nuclear tests, military training, to those who benefit from the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of those who have suffered under the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, if we read the text of the bill, we can see such beautiful words about eliminating discrimination against citizens and so on. But if you go back to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, you can think of the whole story. A few years ago, when we formed a coalition, I remember, and today my colleague from the Fatherland faction Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel spoke about it, as we negotiated and worked on the draft State Budget Act 2016. We begged the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk not to cancel the 4th category; we begged not to take the benefits from these Chernobyls who were affected by the disaster. At the same time, on the same night that we went through 18 hours of talks, when we came to the hall, we realized that Arsenius Petrovich had shown and said that it was the Ukrainian Budget Act, vote. From that moment on, the government has applied a social sadism program especially to those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'm going to say that the fourth zone has been removed, the eating of children in Category IV schools has been canceled, the healing of the children and the children themselves who have the status of exterminators and the exterminators themselves. Additional leave, which had been foreseen in the legislation accordingly, had been cancelled. Well, the other thing is dental flossing and all the other benefits. So we're talking about this story and we understand that, as the author of the bill said, we're now starting to recover, and we're absolutely in line with some cynicism. You didn't have to take those benefits off. I would also like to remind you that, to the honor of the Ukrainian Parliament, we voted in general and submitted to the President a bill of 2093 that restores the categories and zones in which they suffered as a result of the accident. But at the same time, the president made a commitment and returned the bill to Parliament from the veto. So social sadism continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u123	From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u124	Honorable Ukrainian Parliament, Your Honor! The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of this bill because it restores historical justice. But at the same time, we are addressing Parliament's leadership, the leadership of the profile committee as soon as possible, and putting into order a daily bill authored by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, and other colleagues, number 4442 on the status and social security of participants and decommissioners at the Chernobyl AES. Without a refund, the draft law is simply a satisfaction and a recognition of the fact that participants in the elimination of other accidents are compared to Chernobyl. We've got to get the benefits back to the niggers. The other one. Oncologically ill children and cancers are the result of this accident. And I would very much like to know and understand what the government has really done or is only here spoken by Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman with the provision of medicines for children with cancer. Because the situation is catastrophic. A colleague of ours, Oksana Korczynska, raised a very important question, talked about it, but in practice no one did anything. So Parliament has to go back face to face with the Chernobyls, to the disaster fighters, and not just start talking about it before the 30th anniversary of the disaster. I invite all my colleagues to come to Zažor Mountain to Lubna, where there is a unique memory alley. The former Chapaij division of Lubenska 25th took the most active part in the elimination of the CHAES accident. In fact, the shores were planted on the memory lane. And each year they are remembered for those who have strayed from us as a result of this technological catastrophe. Come and see. It was this year alone that 80 trees were planted by me and the Lubenites. And with regard to the support of Bill 4442, yesterday the Poltava District Council adopted a decision-calling Parliament on its immediate consideration. So let's get to work, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u125	Alexander Dudenkov of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u126	Hello colleagues, hello Ukrainian citizens, the bill is indeed extremely important for those who have been affected by other nuclear tests and who have actually experienced all the difficulties of radiation contamination. They are no different from those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Since there have indeed been many, bad or good cases of nuclear testing, we will not judge this history that has come to pass, but the problem of people must be solved. But what is the essence of this bill? It is very simple: the current power and the current coalition opposition, which in fact voted in favour of a number of draft laws that deprive the Chernobyl people of social benefits, is now saying that we will provide certain Ukrainian laws on social protection for those who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster with certain social benefits. Will it help these people? Of course it will. Can we ignore those citizens who were affected by the nuclear weapons test? Of course, the attention of these citizens cannot be overlooked. Does the bill decide on any property or social issues of Chernobyl now? No, he doesn't. What do we give the citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster by the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster? We don't give them anything on the same account. The benefits that we have taken are not returned to us, no matter how hard we speak, no matter how much we drain, but our actions are not reflected in the planting of these marshes, namely in the voting of laws, in particular the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2016. Let us all introduce a bill together, and by all factions, let us sign the amendment to the Ukrainian Law for 2016, which suspends the law on social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It is these actions that will be the real support of those citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. I understand that there are many speakers here who can cause the most sincere feelings, even tears can cause, but still the citizens who are left without social protection by the State, who are left alone with incurable diseases, with a lack of the medicines they need every day. We need to act with concrete action rather than using the shirt of the opposition, who had previously voted in favour of the law that had deprived these social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u127	Thank you. From the People's Front, Corchik Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The problem of those affected by nuclear disasters is well - known. I was born in Ravenna, Sarna, where there are so many people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Of course, as the People's Front faction, we certainly support this bill and ask all concerned colleagues to do the same. Let us restore that historical justice, and the bill provides for the right of wives of deceased citizens to receive compensation in connection with eliminating the consequences of nuclear tests. This is one step toward restoring the benefits of those affected by these disasters. I'm very pleased that one of the co-authors of this bill is the head of our People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. I would also like to say that, Your Honor, this bill is very important. Unfortunately, today the number of national MPs required to vote on this bill is not enough, and I ask that we put it to a vote before the vote, because we cannot postpone the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u129	Thank you. I want to tell the people's deputies, we have just 25 minutes left to call on colleagues of all, all factions, to come to the hall so that we have enough deputies in the hall. There's obviously got to be a call here, not to me, but to fellow MPs, and we have enough time for them to leave their extremely important things that distract them from working in parliament, and return them to their work months. Thank you now. It's a section on speeches by the National Deputies. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to record a statement from the National MPs. Please record. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u130	Hello, everyone! No doubt the Radical Party faction supports this bill. I want to show you this right now, the accounts of our district hospitals that are asking for medicines for oncological children. The state has allocated 350 million dollars only for an oncology program. Two officials, Mrs. Pavlenko's first Deputy Minister of Health and Deputy Minister of Health of the Perkins, who have not been able to organize such an international procurement process in a year that they are now being blackmailed by all distributors, are not taking these medicines, and there is currently no vial on this national program, which the country counted 350 million in December. These are all accounts, some of them I've already given in hopes of some deputies, each area is now on average for 16-20 children asking for medicine for a month from 500,000 to a million. These children were to be rescued by the State, thanks to two officials who, for prophylaxis to understand what they were going to say, would want to be investigated for at least three months by the S.I.S.O. to understand what it is for parents to look every day for tens of thousands of dollars to save their children, that's what this is about. We're voting for great bills, we're taking them, and then people are looking for them all over the country. I have a request for all deputies. I'm going to send you guys a bill right now because 14 areas have already turned. We have to control and prove to you that the state will provide drugs to our sick population, especially when drugs and money are taken away. And thanks only to the disgruntled officials of the Cabinet of Ministers who are now gathering meetings, they are advising us on how to buy areas to save the situation. Unfortunately, these drugs cannot be purchased in pharmacies because they are chemotherapy. Besides being extremely expensive, it's not bought in simple pharmacies. And that's what the "sir" dealers are using. And now the Ministry of Health is giving green light just to the raw dealers. We must not allow this to happen to you, and we must save both the country’s ill population and those of those with cancer. I call on all deputies to solidarity and to have officials answer for what they have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u131	Thank you. Alexei Lensky gives the floor to Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u132	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On April 26, we meet, unfortunately, the tragic date in the history of the Ukrainian State, in the history of the Ukrainian people, is the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, there are few people left who have eliminated this nuclear monster, who have saved Ukraine and the Ukrainians from the nuclear threat. How does the State face the anniversary of this tragedy? Regrettably, the Chernobylites have been given the attention of the state. They are forced to see, go look under the Cabinet, how many months before the Cabinet of Ministers are the Chernobylites, demanding the implementation of the standards of the Chernobyl laws that took away all the governments in the world: both the previous and the present are not going to give back, and all the past. When it was necessary to send people to nuclear hell to give their lives and save the country, while the party bonuses of their children were being shipped abroad at that time, in a socialist camp, no one in Chernobyl asked. They left because they followed orders and rescued the country. Today, when they have no basics, no medicines, no life - style, no health care, no money. Why is there no money? Because high-ranking people, starting with the President and the oligarchs, don't pay taxes, they register their firms in offshores to hide their billions of dollars there so they don't pay taxes, and then they tell them there's no money for neighborhoods, for kindergartens, for schools, for hospitals, for road repairs. Of course, this money will never be available because a pensioner can't pay his pension 15 percent, but at the expense of the pensioners, you can't get the state out, the oligarchs have to pay taxes and the example should be shown by President Poroshenko. When I saw the publication of Panamanian materials today, suddenly figures, participants in the Panamanian scandal, President Poshenko, Head of the Nanzbank of Gontareva, Finance Minister Daniluk came out with initiatives on the de-offshoring of the economy. Why did you remain silent for two years about this de-offshorization until your ears came out of the Panama Offshore? Now they're talking about deofshorization. That's the best de-offshoring, Mr. President, is to return your fortunes to Ukraine and pay billions of taxes to the Ukrainian budget and not continue to twist your head. In addition, the President vetoed Chernobyl Law 2093 and again motivated the lack of funds in the State Budget. I call on the Ukrainian Parliament to overcome the President's veto and protect the rights of the Chernobyl population and to start investigating the President's activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u133	Voropayev gives the speech to Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u134	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm sitting here, I'm listening, so let me say, all these speeches and all these debates that are going on, and I can say one thing: the pirar that started here on the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear accident, otherwise I can't say it, think that he did it. They're all drunk, they're talking about the love of the cannibals. But you know what's offensive? Here's any major who works normally in the Majority District, and he understands what a huge problem this is. What kind of people are we dealing with today? They are people 50 years of age and older, those who have given up their health, have lost their lives in order to save their country, in order to save their families and loved ones, in order to give their debt to their mother. To be honest, there have always been problems with the Chernobyls, there have always been unresolved issues. But what were the problems? There was injustice against those who were summoned through the army and who went voluntarily. There was injustice against those who went voluntarily and those who were called upon through production. There were also some mechanisms for the payment of pensions, benefits and so on and so on. But most of all, do you know what's surprising? That the majority here today is speaking and says, the past majority, I mean, they're one wave in favour of the budget, they've solved this problem. They just decided on all the benefits of this category of people, the Chernobyls. And at a time when these people more than ever need to improve their health, social protection, in support of some, they just stayed alone with their problems. And today we're with cynicism, and we're saying cynicism: let's remove discrimination. With regard to whom is discrimination? In relation to two categories of people. Yes, we will vote, we are in favour of eliminating this discrimination, but we are also in favour of restoring the benefits that have been. We're for returning discrimination against these people in general, not playing populism here, not telling you who loves who more. Law 2093 was passed. Why, then, is the provincial faction that today's bill does not pass Bill 2093 and does not vote in favour of overcoming the veto in order to return to the people the full payment of the social guarantees they have with their health with their lives. And here's the game of populism, I don't think it'll ever do any good. And in the end, people understand and know what it's worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u135	Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u136	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, those who are now in the hall, and there are not as many as there should be during the consideration of the bills, which require the majority of the votes. Honourable Ukrainians will certainly vote in favour of this bill, which deals with providing additional social guarantees to those citizens who have participated in nuclear tests and who have received radiation and have thus caused harm to their health. Of course, the "Fatherland" faction believes that Parliament should adopt those bills that relate to providing additional social guarantees to Ukrainian citizens who have the right to do so. But let us see objectively what is happening. Initially, they adopt laws on the state budget and related laws that eliminate all benefits from it. citizens of Ukraine who apply pensions to working pensioners and to other categories of persons who are limited by any social guarantees. After that, some drafts are drawn out by unit, introduced into the hall, and presented as a great success and concern for the people. We will not go that far, because this is not a strategy for the development of Ukraine and a strategy for the state in social policy. Obviously, we have to really look at what categories of people today really need the benefits, how these benefits have to be given to people to really get to the recipient, and how to make Ukrainian citizens have that level of income so that they don't need taxes from the state. They'll ask, where do you put the money in the government budget to fill it? Even after this bill, the Ministry of Finance has a negative conclusion, and it only needs 7 million dollars a year. Negative conclusion. There's no money. The "Fatherland" faction has passed two bills relating to de-offshorization. And only from the adoption of these two bills during the year can the budget held receive an additional 68 billion dollars. Here are your pension, salary, and social standards. So let's go stately and not deceive people by passing drafts that first cancel, and then how great success is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Alexander Suprunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u138	Alexander Suprunenko, 216 constituency, Kiev I consider Bill 3281 very important. But unfortunately, there aren't enough votes in the room, so I'd like to move it to the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u140	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, much has also been said today about the veto bill, 2093, namely the social status and protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. But I would like to remind everyone that not so many people voted, in general, well, the national deputies, including those in the hall, voted in favour of the bill, namely, February 4, 2016. A total of 246 people's deputies voted in favour. And just among the factions that are now talking about supporting such important bills, very few have voted. In particular, the Fatherland faction voted in favour of only 12 people's deputies, and the Opposition Block voted 26 in favour, not 12, not five. And that's why we have these results. Dear colleagues, let us be conscientious about our duties, be present at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, and then we will be able to overcome the President’s veto together, and in a bunch, it is easier to beat a father. So let us just go to work and fulfill our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u141	Oleg Beresuk. Then I'll give it to you. You insist on replining because your last name has been mentioned, right? Yes, according to the regulations, you have the right to a replica. Please, Mr. Ivan. Krulko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u142	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. They just named the "Paternity" faction, which always supports those bills that people need. But I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens. You see, this week, how many votes for the laws are won by a coalition that has just been formed: no more than 160 per week were for the laws of the coalition, other votes are chosen by means of the votes of the democratic opposition. So if we want to analyze now, really how the laws are adopted in this room, I definitely want to say that it's not going to benefit the BPT faction. I would ask my colleagues to speak before we analyze, including how many votes have been voted by the BPT faction. And go back to the hall to adopt this important draft law that applies to the Chernobyls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u143	Mr. Ivan, I am. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that a line is given when the name is mentioned. Mr. John, I asked you if your last name had been mentioned. According to the Rules of Procedure, a replica can only be given when the name is mentioned. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be careful in that regard. My first order of business was to cancel the closed doors. Anyone can come to me. Don't take advantage of that, because sometimes I can't hear what the MPs say. You're asking me, I'm asking you to be honest, be honest. I gave my word for it, I keep saying it. And, dear fellows, I'd like to consult you. Is there, or is Oleg Beresuk insisting? Don't insist. The time for discussion is over. Dear colleagues, let us consult. Well, it's a simple story, isn't it? I can put it to a vote now. It won't work. And I'm saying it's rejected. The history of the second. I don't vote, and we all know that's not compliance with the Rules. We all know that this is not compliance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, I will be able to transfer this question to tomorrow, to make a decision if the whole room is the only one on this issue. After all, we are the highest legislative body. There's no objection, colleagues, is there? All right, I'll do it if there's no objection in the hall. Although I think it's wrong, I'm going to take this step. I'll run the signal now, according to the Rules. I will vote to be able to identify the mobilisation resources of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not according to the bill, not under it, but only so that we can see how well the Supreme Council is now able to make decisions. Are you ready for the previous vote? I ask you to take part in the vote to check the mobilization of MPs in the hall. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:29:33]] For 181 By factions, please turn on. Colleagues, we're going to have a conversation with the factions tonight. But I'm sure we should. I can sound it, no problem. I'll just see where I have it. Yeah, yeah. Block of Peter Poshenko – 48, National Front – 55, Opposition Block – 24, Self-help – 18, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 11, Parenthood – 6, Rebirth Party – 3, Will of the People – 0. Dear colleagues, tonight we will have a conversation with the heads of factions on this matter. If we don't restore the potential in the hall, I'm just going to reject the bill. This will take place after we have had a conversation with the factions’ heads, for it must be warned in advance not to say that the chairman suddenly starts to reject the bill. This must be a joint decision of the entire Parliament, the entire leadership of Parliament. But it must continue to be our joint decision, once again, if we pass a bill, if we discuss a bill, we must make a decision on it immediately. There should be either a change to the Rules, or it should be as stated in the current Rules. Dear colleagues, I have received the full support of the bill hall, which has now been spoken. And I'll give you one minute for Victor Pinzenic. Please, Mr. Victor, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u144	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, your colleagues, is the law of article 44, this law is called the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, this law has not been annulled or annulled, and no one has the right to cancel it here in the Hall. I insist, in accordance with the rules of this law, that the issue that has been discussed should be taken up for decision. We have no right not to comply with the law governing the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u145	Mr. Victor, I went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and asked if there was even one person in the room who objected to the passing of the bill? There was no man. We had a long discussion in full reading, colleagues, you had the full opportunity to speak, the discussion was concluded. I turned to the hall, there was no MP in the room who would object to us moving the decision to tomorrow, and this decision was already taken by me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we still have a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the subject. I suggest we discuss it, too, if there is no objection. Colleagues, I propose to discuss the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform. Is there general support in the hall for us to have the same discussion as this one? Thank you for your support in the hall, dear colleagues. But at least support the simplified procedure, colleagues. This is a decree, this is not a fundamental bill. Is there a Mantis? Is there a Mantis? Ola the Mantis is, yes. I would like to take a look at the draft Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation on "On Health Reform in Ukraine" and ask for the support of the proposal to consider the draft decision on a reduced procedure. Those who support the ruling, the consideration of the summary procedure, please vote. Please vote in favour of the cancelled procedure. Vote. [[13:34:02]] For 133 I won't talk! Dear colleagues, I very much ask during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to stay in their places of work and participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Do we have a deal? I emphasize who will come to me when I vote for the presidency, he has no chance of getting in touch with me. No chance! In the workplace, and work. Dear colleagues, I'm going to make a proposal again, I'm going to make a motion to vote, I'm going to propose a motion to consider a motion for a summary ruling. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, 4406. Please vote. [[13:35:09]] For-141 Thank you. There's no support in the hall. We're moving on to a full procedure. I invite you to consider the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u146	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Supreme Council Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform in Ukraine Number 4406, submitted by the Health Committee. The committee's recommendations for parliamentary hearings take into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, State Authorities and Local Self-Government, representatives of the medical community, international experts and public organisations, which were made on 16 December 2015 at parliamentary hearings on "The Reform of Health Care in Ukraine". All parliamentary hearings recommended recognizing the work of the Ministry of Health to ensure the reform of the country’s health system. In view of the lack of legislative initiatives by the Ministry of Health for reforms in 2015, the Health Committee committed itself to developing a number of health - care bills in 2016, changing existing imperfect financing and management systems. These legislative initiatives are listed in paragraph 3 of the recommendations, with some of the bills already being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, and others in the process of processing. The recommendations set out a clear list of priorities that the government needs to take in order to move from a dead end and finally start reforms in health care. First of all, this refers to the need to develop a concept and a health sector reform strategy that was to be approved a year ago, as well as a number of normative instruments, including the state-guaranteed level of health care; how to calculate the cost of health care and how to repay it from the State budget; how to contract health care facilities for the health care of the population and the typical form of such a contract; the application of new payment mechanisms; the development of standards and treatment protocols. The Cabinet of Ministers' recommendations also suggested that measures should be taken to reform the public procurement system for medical and medical products for the next five years, to build a public health system in Ukraine on the platform "Ukraine 80 Plus", to introduce balanced pricing policies on basic medicines with reference comparable prices, to implement a cost compensation system, to reimbursement of essential medicines, and many other measures that you were able to get acquainted with. The project of recommendations contains a number of specific recommendations to ministries: health, education and science, social policy, information policy, the State Television and Radio Committee, the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, and local self - government. According to the Health Committee, a draft recommendation in case of approval may be a concrete step-by-step plan for the government for the current and subsequent years. So please support the Committee's proposals – and adopt the Supreme Council's draft Recommendation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform in Ukraine – on the basis and overall. I would also like to add that as of today, the Health Committee has developed seven laws that await introduction to the Supreme Council. And I very much ask you, as part of the implementation of the tasks and this program, approved by the parliamentary hearings, the Health Committee has carried out practically all its obligations and is prepared to bring to Parliament the laws that have already been registered: both on the autonomy of health institutions, and on changes in the principles of public health policy (the key document), and on the changes in the key laws of psychiatry, the new Rehabilitation Act, and many other documents that are actually promised to the Health Committee every week, but are not. This is true of the declarative statements made by political leaders that support health reform and changes in the health care reform system only in words and not in action. Therefore, I urge you to support the draft recommendations and also to support those bills prepared and introduced by the Health Committee. Thank you for your attention. And I ask the presiding officers to postpone voting on this bill for tomorrow because there are not enough deputies in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Mother's Bogdan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u149	Dear Olga Vadimovna, it is not a secret that, at last, the Health Committee has prepared a series of drafts that have now been put into the agenda, but we see a destructive position of the so-called constructive opposition in the form of the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. Please tell me, what else do we need to do to get those people who signed this bill to vote in favour of putting them in the agenda? From your point of view, what else do we have to do with the Health Committee? To protest whether to bring the sick here to the Supreme Council, or what, to finally get reform started.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u150	Mrs. Ola, will you answer or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u151	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, I regret not to be able to answer for the constructive opposition that they did not actually support the introduction of the 2409 daily bill on the agenda of the Health Policy Act, but I am asking the chairman to put this bill into order tomorrow and I will hope that Self-Help and Fatherhood will support this bill on the agenda. And I invite all members of the Health Committee, regardless of the factions to which they relate, to the briefing tomorrow for a second hour, to express our stand against the fact that the Supreme Council does not systematically and chronically review the laws of the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u153	I've just made a statement, please pass on the next word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u154	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I ask you to explain. I eliminated these moments, which were a deterrent to the vice presidents. Please don't abuse me, it's hard for me to have a session and have a discussion at the same time. When I am approached by a national MP, it is not ethical for me not to answer his questions. But please don't abuse it, so I'm making such mistakes, sorry, please. We've got a po. [[Noise Nodes]] Deputys to work, that's right. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u155	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Mrs. Ola, we have almost a year since the Ministry of Health has not been working. We don't have a minister today. And it is clear that there was no clear and clear strategy in the Ministry of Health and there can be no lack of leadership by the Ministry, as a minimum. That's why I have a question for you. Tell me, what is the view of the committee, and including the results of the parliamentary hearings, what will Ukrainian medicine be like? She's going to be an insurance medicine, and you see her as an insurance medicine? Is this a medicine that will continue to be financed by the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. It was a year ago that the Health Committee, taking into account the paralysis of the Ministry of Health, made a commitment. And we believe that in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, Parliament and the PSC can commit themselves to defining a State's development strategy. There's nothing to worry about. And the Ministry, as the executive body, has this strategy to carry out. And in the Health Committee today, there are MPs from virtually all factions, except for "The Fatherland," who simply failed to provide a member by their own size. And all the laws passed by the committee are now agreed upon by all the deputies, members of the committee. The health system of steps to be taken that were agreed upon at parliamentary hearings, first, the adaptation of European clinical protocols. Next, the adoption of a series of laws and medical devices that open the door to the pharmaceutical market will increase competition and reduce the price accordingly. These laws are prepared, not passed into the hall. And it's just a paradox when everyone in their seats, in their districts, understands how much it takes, the absence of deputies when it comes to passing and voting these laws, brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u157	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u158	Give me 10 seconds. So our insurance will be very progressive, step by step, to the health insurance system. But you can't do that in a year, because it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u159	Thank you. Question time's up, Mrs. Olga. Thank you. Now we're going to the chapter of statements from the factions of Parliament. Anyone who wishes to speak from the factions, please record. Debenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u160	Thank you. Please give the floor to Igor Mikhailovich Shurmi, a respected professional in the field of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u161	Please, Igor Shurma, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u162	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I am convinced that the health problems of Ukraine’s citizens are a topic and a problem that can unite political elites. What is being done today in health - care institutions in the health - care system needs to be concentrated and united. But I have a question today: why are we even worse off than we were in 2014 after a year and a year and a half after the introduction of the reform agenda? It seems to me that it is a higher form of cynicism today to vote in favour of parliamentary hearings – think! – May in our noses, hearings were in December. For five months, the decision that sounded unsatisfactory work by the Ministry of Health was under the dress. I would like to say who is responsible for the health situation today. Without a doubt, the Ministry of Health. Please tell me, who voted in that room for that minister of health? The ruling coalition voted for him, then it was 302 votes. You must gain courage today and all those who are trying to pin themselves on a "democratic," "radical", "civilized" opposition that you are guilty of trusting the Ministry of Health in the hands of a foreigner with the profession of "historic" who spent a year and a half telling stories about tomorrow-to-morrow and today we are standing near a broken trough. Moreover, today in the hall, when we say that there is a health problem, we are voting for a reduced procedure today. So this microphone today should be sounding health problems, not 2 in favour, 2 in favor, and they voted quickly and moved on. We will not simply give the order by adopting this decree. You know why? As long as there is no concept of developing a national health system in Ukraine, any bill to be passed by all 450 deputies will not add anything. Health reform is not a matter of one day. This will take up to five years. This needs telling people the truth, it needs to be said that health systems themselves need to be changed both in the education system and in the financing system. The concept must be developed by the executive branch of the Cabinet of Ministers. This should be taken into this hall and approved. And this concept, regardless of political parties, should be a guide for the next five years. Our faction will normally vote in favour of this motion. But I'm stressing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u163	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u164	But what I'm stressing is if we don't accept a state-wide concept as a document, this whole work of both Parliament and Kabmin is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u165	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block. Yuri Solovay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u166	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, before discussing the medical issue, I would like to address the subject of discipline and the calls that you or your predecessor or you are usually making from the rostrum, urging deputies to be present. I want to tell you that these calls won't work because those who are always in town here are always in town, and those who are always missing are always missing, and they don't hear your calls. And as long as there's no responsibility to the national deputies for not being in the workplace, we'll always see half-empty halls here. I've spoken and stressed on a number of occasions today, I'm sorry, if a person works ineffectively on any enterprise, institution or organization, this person gets less pay. Let us, as national deputies, begin at least with this: to reduce the wages of the national MPs, to lower the fund for the execution of parliamentary powers for not voting on the Ukrainian national MPs for the bills that stand in the order of the day. And now, with regard to the medical issue that we are listening to today. Dear colleagues, let's ask patients today and ask doctors today whether they are satisfied with the state of things that are in the medical field today. I think the answer is obvious: Both of us today do not satisfy the medical situation that exists in our country. Is it possible today to talk about effective reform when we have a year of a suspended minister, when we have a government approved, and we do not have a health minister again? Probably not. Is it possible to talk today about what the medical field will be without answering the key question: who will finance medicine? It's going to be financed by people through the insurance mechanism, or it's going to be financed by the state through the government budget mechanism. So in summary of these things, it is obvious today that a serious medical strategy is needed in the medical field first. We need to answer the question: What will be the medicine, who will finance it? The basic question is: At an early date, who will be our new minister of health, who will answer these questions in the near future. And to the end. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I propose that, in order to systematize the work of the Supreme Council, let's bring in the profile days. If we are talking about medicine, let us spend one day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on medical matters. And this whole day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's a profile minister present, and we're looking at, and we're asking all the questions. We have 17 ministries, that's 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u167	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u168	During 17 plenary sessions, at least we can systematize the work of the Supreme Council and consider profile issues with the participation of profile ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And the answer to that. We're going to make a working group on introductions and changes to the Rules, and legislation on improving performance and penalties for non-visiting. This will be our joint decision. Just let me translate the spirit. We'll finish the plenary week, we'll sit down and we'll work with you on this and we'll work it out. Thank you. Korczynska gives the word to Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In 2014, more than 600,000 Ukrainians died in Ukraine, of which more than 400,000 died from cardiovascular diseases. By the number of dead, we take first place in the world. Hundreds of thousands of lives of Ukrainian citizens could be saved under one condition if there was quality medical care and a key – medical care provided in time. Sadly, there is neither one nor the other in our country today. And hundreds of thousands of people who could live, make their children happy, their grandchildren, ride the resorts, relax, they die at a young age just because they can't buy themselves, they can't buy a pill, they can't get help on time, because they've closed down the FAPs, the hospital, because the village doesn't have to get an ambulance. And on the ambulance, if it's somewhere in the middle, there's no battery, there's no gas, there's no wheels, and people have to pay for everything. The Constitution’s stated standard of free medicine for all of us, with little exception from those who have access to treatment, but the vast majority of people know that there is no free medicine in Ukraine. Each one goes to the hospital with his own, with bandages, syringes, socks, cowards, latrines, and hundreds of thousands of money for medicine. If God forbid, whether oncology or some other serious disease, they sell the last, sell the apartments, sell everything in the world, and still do not help them. Why? Because many people do not undergo annual mandatory diagnostics that could save lives as if the disease were discovered at an early stage. That's why the faction of the Radical Party is because for us the life of the Ukrainians is question number one. We have proposed legislative initiatives that will enable the lives of our people to be preserved. One of these initiatives is the annual free medical examination of retirees, because people today don't have money for C.T., for fluorography, for X-rays, and they're already sitting, they only come to the hospital when the disease is at its final stage. We suggest that we examine pensioners annually at the expense of the state, allowing them to manifest disease at an early stage and save lives so that they can enjoy their families. Our next important initiative of the Radical Party is to provide a free monthly list of medicines, so-called "fast assistance" for Ukrainian pensioners. Today, a person comes to the pharmacy with a prescription and can’t buy anything because he doesn’t have any money. We offer the most necessary medication for the pressure, for the headache, for the heart, for the cold, for the people to get free of the state and thus save the lives of Ukrainian citizens, especially the most needy pensioners. Reforming the health system is a key reform, unfortunately, that is not what the authorities are doing, and they are paying for their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u171	Thank you. Anton Kisse from Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, dear voters, I have listened carefully to my colleague's statement here today in the rostrum and may hardly agree with all the speakers. I just want to draw the attention of my colleagues and those of our constituents who hear us today. Notice, for 20 years, we've only been talking about reforms, and today we're going to go to the hospital, what are the lines, what accounts are given to the sick? Today, perhaps it is not a secret that many people simply cannot acquire painkillers. Today, the problem has become so financial that it is even difficult to pass on, only those who face the problem can do so. Of course, the further we go, the deeper we go into the hole. The most urgent thing is to apply for the post of Minister of Health. The absence of a vertical poses major problems. Note what is happening in the areas today: today there is a complete replacement of chiefs, a reformation. When local elections take place, there is an immediate beginning of work to replace health leaders, and this simply leads to people going on the road, covering the roads. This is particularly true in the area of Odessa. This is a problem in the Arciz region, trials are under way, the problem in the Tatar region, the problem in the Balgrad region and in a number of other areas. I would like to refer to a special committee: I would very much like to have a meeting here in Parliament to listen to those who will take part in them, and the Parliamentary Committee, on the basis of those proposals that will be made from below, may formulate the actions that we need to take through Parliament. We must firmly set the main task of a medical strategy: are we on the path of insurance? If we are to go, we must, in the end, move on to making specific decisions. We have been talking about this for the past 15 years. We would very much like our convening of Parliament to take a significant step towards the transition to insurance medicine. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u173	Thank you. And a closing statement from the Self-Help faction, Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u174	I want to tell the previous speaker that the Self-Help faction has always done and will do everything possible for, in fact, health reform. As for this resolution, which we're going to vote for now, I want to say that the resolution in question is going to be one more time: what do we do to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, what do we do to Parliament, what do we do to the executive authorities in places? But none of our voting for this resolution will change the conditions for patients who come to the hospital and are in terrible conditions and buy medical supplies at their own expense. Also, our voting with you will in no way change the conditions for those doctors who still exist today on a beggarly salary. That is why I believe that the value of both the Parliament and the new government is concrete actions that can be done. As far as Parliament is concerned, we are not simply obliged to talk to you about reforms, we are obliged to vote for specific bills. Let's finally look in the face and go back to our doctors and our nurses. Let's vote in favour of Bills 1164, 1332, these are the bills that are directly linked to the increase in wages for medical workers. I also think it's important that we finally vote in favour of the bill on the autonomy of medical institutions. This is the bill that will change the principles of the financing system. Because now our pseudo-reformers have simply transferred the responsibility for the reform that has not taken place to the hands of our doctors. And with the funding of the health system, this year it is the lowest in all 24 years of Ukraine’s independence. Therefore, it is very important to evaluate our activities for voting for the bills. All of Ukraine is also awaiting an important transplant bill. Five thousand people in Ukraine die each year because of the absence of a transplant and there are these bills. But unfortunately, we don't vote for them, because somehow they get into the voting order at the end of the day. And as national MPs, we just can't get to such important bills. That is why I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council be put up with medical bills immediately from the morning, and that we immediately vote for them, not pretend to be reforming by voting for another resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-20-m0.u175	Mrs. Irina, we've scheduled a few drafts tomorrow, only I'm asking you to give in writing, perhaps to me, which you consider to be your priority to put in. What's the point? To be: (a) questions that are united for the hall are important; and (a) those that are of the highest priority. Help me, please, literally after the meeting to give me a list. Okay? I'll wait. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have yet to read the announcement. The bill is closed. As we agreed, this bill, like the previous one, will be voted on the next day, the next day. I want to read the announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kiwalova Sergio Vasilovich into the opposition bloc. Dear colleagues, today we have had a difficult, stressful day, we have been able to resolve the question at the hostels, open the door for the holding of out-of-court local elections in many locations. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. And that's why I call the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
