ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u1	Dear fellow MPs, guests, good morning! Please take up jobs. Please enter the hall and prepare for the start of our work. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Please, colleague, come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please be prepared for registration by your distinguished colleagues. Please turn on the "Council" system and please register with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please register. [[10:06:55]] 367 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council, President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u3	Honorary colleagues and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and members of the government. [[Applause]] The heads of the central executive branch, the heads of the judicial branch, the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve, representatives of public organizations and the media, heads of foreign diplomatic representations and other officials. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u4	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable President of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u5	Dear Mr. President, Ukrainian National Deputies, Honourable Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, Honourable Members of the Government, Heads of the Constitutional and Supreme Courts of Ukraine, Highly Honourable Representatives of Diplomatic Representations, Honourable Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen! Welcome to the opening of the fifth session of the eighth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Congratulations! [[Applause]] We have to remember every day and every minute that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the Parliament of the warring country. And this should be a major sign of the activities of the highest legislative body of the state. On August 25, a sudden Russian army combat test began. There is an enormous amount of technology and living power reaching Ukraine’s borders. All of this is officially happening in the framework of the military exercises of the Caucasus-2016. Military units are being turned over to the South Military District, even from the Far East. The Ukrainian resort Crimea is gradually becoming a solid military base. And war today is not just on our eastern front, not just in the Audiium proms, in Shirocín or Marinz. By breaking teeth about our cyborgs, about our warriors, the enemy today has set the main goal of internal destabilisation in our country, the unfolding of the situation within the country, the blocking of the work of the authorities, including the Ukrainian Parliament. The main goal is to throw the country into chaos in chaos, chaos. And this "chicken" tactic is not new. Once an outstanding British. British Winston Churchill said that "a people who don't remember their past doesn't have a future." We need to remember the lessons of our historical memory, and we need to remember our past. Our story cries out to us. The Ukrainians did not suffer defeat because they lacked enough military power to have economic difficulties, but almost all of our losses were due to internal strife and internal misunderstandings — since Kiev’s Russian times, the Battle of the Gethman Bluff and the Battle of the U.N.R. And today our original enemy is doing everything he can to sow discord. Divide and rule is an ancient principle of any empire. The attack also takes place on the information front. To this end, Russia has created and funded a whole network, including information channels aimed at destabilizing the country’s political situation. The controlling aggressor states and their citizens are engaged in some of the media's deliberate discrediting of both the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ukrainian political system as a whole. And today, also, we've had a lot of resources thrown out to shake things up inside our country. What can we resist? Only one thing is to unite and win. In our hall there are many different political forces and many prominent political actors, but it is very important for us to understand that at this important time the Ukrainian camp should be facing an external threat, and together we must follow the path of reforming our country, reforming the economy, strengthening the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I'm sure one thing unites us: it's faith and desire to win with the original existential enemy -- Moscow imperialism -- and the desire to build a prosperous and just country. And this should unite us both in this room and beyond, in all spheres, in all directions. This autumn will be the autumn of the formation of the Ukrainian budget. I am convinced that the budget will be submitted by the government to Parliament in time, and this is the guarantee of our joint success. In the budget-2017, we have to use all the possibilities for social protection for Ukrainians. But we should also bear in mind that the provision of defence for the warring country should be a priority for the budget. Here I would like to mention and welcome to the team of the State Enterprise "Southern Design Bureau" and the Kiev Building Bureau "Luc" with the next successful test of the new Wilha tactical missile. [[Applause]] I also welcome the state-owned Anton's experts who developed and introduced a tactical assault drone called the Gorge. [[Applause]] It's Ukrainian weapons, it's a guarantee of our safety. And we need to strengthen our defensive potential. And these should be the priority bills and the direction of our budget. I'm convinced that here, in the session room, we're all thinking about this. For us, the issue of combating corruption is important. Today we're going to discuss the issue of whether to give permission to arrest and arrest the judge of the Court of Kiev, Mikoli Chaus, who, instead of the tomatoes in the banks, has preserved bribes, as the search showed. And I am convinced that the issue of combating corruption will unite us all, too, because corruption is a deadly threat to national security. The key to tackling corruption is social issues. By overturning corruption flows and breaking corruption schemes, we will be able to fill the budget and resolve the issue of raising social standards. Dear colleagues, once again, our Parliament is the Parliament of a warring country, and today we must also be aware that our work depends on the future of the state. We have to work responsibly. Just as responsiblely every minute, risking their lives, thousands of our soldiers are doing their job on the front, as teachers are doing their mission in schools that have met our children on September 1. We have to be responsible, because we are looking at a 45 million-dollar country that is now struggling with one of the world's largest military powers, the Putinian Russia. And I am sure that if we can unite for the sake of the country, for a great purpose, we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u6	Prior to the announcement of the annual message to the rostrum, the president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u7	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Ukrainian Government! First of all, I would like to welcome everyone to the 25th anniversary of the restoration of our Ukrainian national independence! [[Applause]] Yes, it's true: and Parliament divides into power and opposition. And this is an integral and very important part, a sign of democracy. But there are times when at least for a moment it's worth forgetting who's right, who's left, who's liberal, who's conservative, who's Ukrainian, who's speaking Russian. It seems to me that the day of independence is the very day that we are all Ukrainians. And on the condition that Russia's aggression against Ukraine is still going on, and the war threat from the East is the most complex strategic challenge, the issue of national unity and political consolidation is a matter of life and death for our country. That's actually the main thing I'd like to say today. [[Applause]] We are all about to celebrate the century since the beginning of the Ukrainian National Revolution. Its leading actors and active participants, unfortunately only in exile, realized when they were on exile, that internal strife caused the loss of independence, the war of all against everyone in the state camp. I'm convinced that you and I should learn history lessons, and I'm convinced that the political struggle will not cross the line that instead of democracy and European values, chaos, anarchy, primacy begins. I want to repeat what I said on Independence Day. State autonomy has given democracy and freedom; a sense of civic dignity and national unity; it has taught us to defend ourselves and opened up the European perspective for our nation. Our spiritual and moral achievements must now be complemented by material gains, ensuring that the welfare of every citizen of free Ukraine is improved. And that's our main achievement. To achieve such an ambitious goal, we need three components: peace, security, and reform. On no account will our security be more dependent on you than on the Ukrainian Armed Forces and on the quality of Ukrainian diplomacy. [[Applause]] My point is, you and I value the support of Western partners very much. At present, more than 40 import contracts are under way to supply a total of $1.5 billion in various defences to the Ukrainian army. Our friends have been handing over armored equipment, drones, surveillance devices, and communication equipment, radio stations, and so forth. And a few weeks ago, a large batch of night vision devices came in, and another one's coming up. But in general, it's clear that in the defense of Ukraine, it has to rely primarily on itself, on its own army, on its own military-industrial complex. As it used to be, "Go to your own way." And it's obvious that everyone can see how our army changed in two years. Two years ago she was almost gone, and now she is and she is. Of course, it is not luxuriant, but it is morally and materially motivated. Yeah, so far, no "differences," but I'm sure she's fed. Yes, not "cuckoo" but exactly dressed in modern form. Let's not say it's the latest military-technical fashion, but it's armed and ready to protect the country. And if the authorities in Ukraine had always paid as much attention to the Armed Forces as we do now, you and I over the last two years, the Green Men wouldn't have sunk in Crimea, and there wouldn't be any Russian troops on Donbass. [[Applause]] Frankly, dear friends, I was shocked to learn from the Attorney General’s Office that weapons and military equipment had been sold for free and priceless in previous years. And that's why in the spring of 2014, our volunteer heroes bounced off the enemy with their bare hands: there was no armor, no weapons, no air space. And I emphasize, now, now it's different. Let them move! And the symbolic report was the 24th of August parade, where there were a lot of deputies, but I lacked all of you faction leaders to see the entire people of Ukraine, our unity and our pride. [[Applause]] And, in fact, now, military action every day and every night will test our armies for strength. But our troops are holding up defense against an aggressor who, for all kinds of resources, far exceeds the resources we own. Not at all, but in order, and there is nothing he can do. I want to stop at the nearest plans for modernizing the defence and security sector. Of course, the flight of dreams in each of us is cloudy, but there are also earthly realities that leave no special choice between what we want and what we can now afford. Almost three percent of the gross domestic product for defence is much compared to just one percent that governments have taken lightly in the middle of zero years. But it's not enough for a country that's actually in a state of war. But more, unfortunately, and that's true, we can't afford it. Military pressure is now on the budget and the social sphere and so critical. Therefore, the army still needs civil aid, civil support, and the state is grateful to everyone whose private civic initiative strengthens our resilience. [[Applause]] Thank you. I stress that we will be rational, under the transparent control of the public and the parliament, to use available resources and to scrupulously control expenditures with a clear definition of the long-term needs of the army and other force structures. Not only is modern and refurbished, but modern technology is now being supplied to the military. Last year, about two dozen new weapons were adopted to arm. But I think this year too, the Ministry of Defense will take more than 20. And I stress that we are at the very beginning of the process of modernizing the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I would like to point out that the work is not finished yet. More than a hundred private manufacturing companies are involved in state defence procurement and import schemes. These are the real scales of the public private partnership in the defence sector that are hundreds, I emphasize, not one and not two. And the stumbling block, the honourable national MPs, unfortunately, was the Special Confiscation Act, which is an important source of funding for the defense order in the current year. [[Applause]] Friends! This is a debt, our debt to the country. And I'm calling for the law to be voted on in an editorial that takes away all your fears. Make the changes you consider necessary, but accept this law and ensure that the state’s defence order and other articles are financed. In order to develop new technologies and develop an industrial base for the production of modern weapons as well as for additional financial resources, we export goods and military services to more than 60 countries around the world. Export contracts were made last year for over $1.3 billion. Our 2016 order portfolio is already over 1 billion. But I stress, my own army, that my own KP is in the first place. It's not our weapons that are now being exported, it's the new types that are being produced by the domestic KPC, and they're outside the government's defenses. No export weakens the defense of the state. And everything we do in the defense field, we do by holding the compass firmly in our hands, the arrow pointing firmly at the North Atlantic. In fact, the compass is a key element of the NATO emblem. And it will give us full compatibility with the alliance's standards, and not just in the military sphere. We have come to an unprecedented and more than ever a close level of cooperation with the countries of the alliance, which we will continue to raise, expand, deepen, to the full achievement of the criteria of membership. Our strategic goal remains to join NATO. [[Applause]] And I want to insist, this guide for us is as unmovable as the Polar Star in the starry sky. It is important that in 2.5 years the number of supporters of Ukraine's accession to NATO has increased significantly and is already significantly higher than the number of opponents. But there are still significant differences between different macro-regions. It should also be recognized that there is also no consensus in the alliance on Ukraine’s membership. Yes, the door is formally open, starting with the 2008 Bucharest summit. But these doors can and can be closed when they're too close. So every step we take has to be balanced, precalculated, so that it doesn't go as well as with the membership plan eight years ago. I would like to point out that what we are doing now is actually much more than the 2008 PPP project. Respectable national MPs, of course, are of great interest to society, and how the Armed Forces of Ukraine will continue to be formed. And as Commander-in-Chief, I'm taking a course in the professionalization of the Ukrainian army. And at the parade, he told the Ukrainian people that the Ukrainian army was already 75 percent contractual. And this component will continue to increase, and this will require further improvement in the structure and the increase in the amount of money provided by military personnel. But I stress that this year alone 50,000 Ukrainian volunteers have joined the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And this enabled us to demobilize five waves of mobilization. And I'm sure this line will continue. Because I wouldn't personally want to mobilize or be in a state of war. I see a completely different plan for our country. But will there be a new wave of partial mobilization, or, God forbid, full mobilization? The final answer to this question depends on Moscow. Our border with Russia is the longest in Europe, only on land is two thousand kilometers. I emphasize that Russia is constantly growing military presence, primarily in our border, playing muscle in the western and northwest strategic directions. The threat of armed aggression is also high from the south. In the ranks of Russian-terrorist forces at Donbassa, almost 38.5,000 people, over 600 tanks, a thousand 250 armoury weapons, 750 artillery systems, over 300 rocket fire systems. And unfortunately, in the implementation of the Minsk Accords, we don't see any progress as we would like. However, the direct actions of the Russian-terrorist forces have been halted. And the absence of new mobilization waves is also a positive consequence of the Minsk Accords, as is the return to the home of thousands of Ukrainian hostages held in prisons in occupied territory and prisons in the Russian Federation. In general, thanks to the strengthening of the defence capabilities of our Armed Forces, we feel more secure than we did a year ago, the temperature of conflict is now lower than it was in the past and past years. And I emphasize that we will keep the Minsk Accords, no matter how difficult it may be for us. And that's what enabled our diplomacy to win in the spring and win the summer's hard fight for the continuation of the sanctions of the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, and many other countries around the world. But at the same time, I stress that we have not given up any principle position for Ukraine. More than that. [[Applause]] Moreover, I emphasize that this was not easy. We've convinced our Western allies and partners that any step in the political settlement must be preceded by clear and undeniable progress on the security issues: the constant cease-fire, the Russian military withdrawal and the technology from the occupied territory, the disarming of the fighters, and finally the restoration of our control over our border. And the second reading of the constitutional changes that the ghost constantly wandered through this hall did not take place, as you can see. And it won't happen until the conditions are right. [[Applause]] Any decision, honourable national deputies, will be unique to you. And without you there will be no changes to the Constitution or to the Law on Local Elections in the Donbas section or to any other strategic step. That is why our cooperation with you is vital. Russia from the occupied territories of Donetskina and Lugansk, as someone said, "Donbas Protectorate" and on its terms to infiltrate it in Ukraine to undermine us from the inside. Let me just put it briefly. We won't let that happen, and it won't. But in this matter, another extreme is internal, which we can't pretend that it doesn't exist. Some Ukrainian politicians are attacking the norm and the mine process is really just because both Normandy and Minsk are opening the way to Donbas' return, and it's the only way to do that. And it turns out not everyone here wants it. Because they're different because they're not going to vote like that, because they're not going to pick them, they're not going to pick us, they're going to drag us east, they're going to take us west. Well, of course, no one is articulateing it out loud, but evil is read among the lines. For me, I want to stress this separately, this philosophy is unacceptable. I'll tell the apologist just as briefly as you don't think it will be. The fantasy of peace in exchange in the territory is absolutely delusional. At that approach, there will be no peace or territory, but there will be only disgrace and eternal conflict. [[Applause]] For me, it was, and will be, the struggle to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity in the borders of 1991. [[Applause]] And I also stress that this year was voted in a real referendum, including the majority of Donbass residents and the majority of criminals. I emphasize that there was no more referendum. Putin's statement that the question of Crimea is closed is a dream. Although it's actually closed in 1954 and 1991. Crimea is, Crimea was, and Crimea will be Ukrainian, and there will be no other conversation. [[Applause]] We report to ourselves that there is no military solution to the problems of territorial integrity, which is obvious. First of all, our army's potential is purely defensive. Second, the enemy has been buried in the most urbanized and densely populated areas, with our compatriots and Ukrainians living with you. So the only way to regulate and restore territorial integrity is through a political diplomatic path. But with the support of defending the capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We need to understand that we're not going to wake up one beautiful morning to see that Donbass has restored the status quo that he was at the beginning of the 14th year. And the process of a real, not a formal restoration of territorial integrity, the reintegration of the inhabitants of the occupied part of Donbas into Ukraine, the return of Ukrainian sovereignty to the whole of Donbas, we have to understand, will be difficult, painful and lasting. And the way to start this process, in general, is that our partners and our partners are just opening up the mine process. So we're more interested in continuing it than we are in maintaining the norm. And any attacks on him, including those made by our aggressor, have led to nothing. We will ensure the victorious process of regaining Ukrainian sovereignty. In principle, we can actually practice forever in designing different formats, but let's not forget: any format makes sense only when Russia participates in it and when it's multilateral. It's very multifaceted because Russia's behaviour in the world, its violation of international law, its attempts to destroy the Kremlin's architecture of European and global security, its expansionism is a continental and global problem. And it cannot be solved on a two - way basis. Ukraine still needs serious international support to combat Russian aggression. And to provide such support for our diplomacy, I can also admit that it is becoming increasingly difficult because of various objective and subjective factors. The European Union is now undergoing very severe trials, perhaps the most difficult in its lifetime. And the migration crisis and the terrorist attacks are external attacks on Europe that test its inner strength. This turbulence has resulted in events such as the victory of Eurosceptics in a referendum in the Netherlands, which we all really understand, only formally applied to the Association Agreement with the European Union. Or the British vote for Brexit. And during the coming year, in a number of European countries, elections may result in power if not extreme, such political forces that are prone to compromise with the Kremlin and the best policy on the aggressor consider it to be peaceful. Munich’s example taught no one. And they are ready to enter Putin's position with the same enthusiasm that Western leaders entered with and tried to understand Hitler. Europe still speaks with one voice. But there are also countries where the Russian accent is already too strong in this voice. The government in many countries – our partners are under intense pressure to compromise with Moscow the opposition. And this opposition, in turn, is based on the demands of business circles and social groups that seem to have suffered from the collapse of their countries’ economic cooperation with Russia. And it is not difficult to see Russia's use in EU countries that are already familiar with the Ukrainian scenario of non-military hybrid warfare. The Kremlin does not conceal that it uses the European democratic values of the West for its own destruction, the West. And I am sure that Europe will strategically overcome these challenges! But at a tactical level, we all need to understand how difficult the task is for our Ukrainian diplomacy. And how unfavourable is it to provide a single European position on sanctions and other forms of pressure on the Russian Federation. And at the meeting, ambassadors received both general and individual instructions at the end of August. Including in the event that developments in some countries are not the best scenario for us. The main thing is the perception and promotion of the strengthening of the international coalition to support Ukraine and to prevent the lifting of sanctions from the Russian Federation until the moment of reconstruction, the full restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. And to contribute to strengthening Ukraine's security through the activation of military and defence cooperation, the transfer of military technology, the provision of aircraft weapons, at least in the event of a full-scale invasion by Russia, which we certainly do not exclude and to which we must be prepared at any time. The question of Crimea, its militarization, the pressures of human rights on the peninsula must be kept on the international agenda, sought to expand the relevant sanctions package, as our partners in the United States did last week. The violation by Russia of human rights in occupied areas, including Crimean Tatars, requires additional sectoral sanctions. I think it wouldn't be too up-to-date a dialogue to accept the analog of Jackson-Venic's revision. And Ukrainian diplomats are tasked with more active involvement of international partners in the release of our political prisoners held in Russia and in the annexed Ukrainian Crimea and hostages in the occupied area of Donbas. The final decision of the European Union on visas will further demonstrate that Europe, as one of our key partners, recognises our progress in internal reforms. And you know, yesterday, another step on the parliamentary committee. The Committee of the European Parliament was made. The most complex reform is anti-corruption. The vastly entrenched network of powerful corruptions has since been and, unfortunately, remains an important element of the political, economic, and social system. Moreover, it is impressed not only by official but also by informal institutions. This corruption is an integral part of the Ukrainian way of life. First of all, we have to demonstrate to society that the attack on corruption started on the mountain and only then will we get the moral right to eradicate it from the outside at all levels. The problems with the start of the electronic declaration were very technical. And my political will as President to launch this program is unalterable. She was, she is, she will be. And this system creates a new reality that strengthens society's control over our wealth, income, expenditure and way of life. From the shadow of the light that people long await, they have to come out of the wealth, the car parks, and the money of all the people’s servants. I see absolutely nothing to worry about. For many years I have lived in such transparency. And we had to waste some time building appropriate infrastructure. Finally, the National Anti-Corruption Office, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, was employed. The conclusions, I emphasize, are too early. The social expectations plan is very high. And I hope they get over it. And you can all see in specific cases that our law enforcement agencies have started, including the Attorney General's Office, by the names they're interested in, by the structures where they're "digging" that there are no personal taboos and closed spheres for them. But I'm definitely against dividing the law enforcement organs into new and old ones. I emphasize that they are all working together and only on the one front, not on different columns, capable of hitting on corruption. And it's obvious that there's a positive shift in the prosecutor's office. One hundred days of the work of the new Attorney General demonstrate this. And it's not a matter of quantity, although over a hundred resonant cases have been violated by the D.A.'s office, I would say, more than one a day. But in the contours of the high-quality positive changes that are being introduced by foreign experts who are now working in the public prosecutor's offices. The Public Prosecutor's Office is transformed into a European body that oversees the rule of law, not the interests of political and business classes. A large-scale clearance of the Ukrainian Security Service has been carried out. Cleansing of traitors and corrupters, as well as people with low professional and moral qualities. During the last two years, Vasil Sergiyyovich may be the first to hear this figure, but more than two thousand Security Officers have been released. And in their place, patriotic young officers, the vast majority of whom, with practical experience, are involved in fighting in eastern Ukraine. All law enforcement agencies are being transformed. The police have already earned and must preserve the trust of the people. The former Soviet police finally began to form the Ukrainian police. The reaction of management in recent weeks' distress was and should be instantaneous and adequate. And these cases should in no way affect the process of reforming the IMF or question its validity. As a summary, what do we have now? The raid, I deliberately and deliberately use this word, which the GPU, the NAB, the BAF, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have arranged for corrupters, is moving with unprecedented enthusiasm. Never has it been delayed or investigated by such a large number of high - ranking workers. I'd probably be more convincing if I counted the positions of officials and what they're incriminating. By all means, this could replace the entire text of the message. But I don't have any lists, no post-facts, no future. And please don't make any noise about political repression. It's better to realize new realities. The real hunt for corrupters has begun, and everyone who has a sin after soul has a chance to get into this network. But if everything is as I say it is, it raises questions, and why do you see these movements in Ukrainian society? Why, that's not enough. I think, because it's been too long to believe that it's not a company at all, it's not a pier, it's a serious, systematic work. And secondly, as they say in the people, as long as it's like a sports fisherman, as I said before, they caught, showed, let go. The key word here is "planted." And perhaps only on the basis of a court sentence can our law enforcement authorities report to society. And so the judicial system itself, which is currently under way in this room, for which I am extremely grateful, judicial reform, must complete the entire anti-corruption system. It will take several years to implement it. But as a result of this work, all Ukrainians have to get a new judicial system -- an honest, independent, just system. First of all, on a competitive basis, the formation will begin literally from the zeroth of the new Supreme Court of Ukraine. I would like to stress separately that I invite those judges who meet high professional and moral standards, the requirements of anticorruption legislation, and who wish to carry out their duties honestly and conscientiously, to participate in the competition. That's the same request I have for experienced lawyers and lawyers. And this month, I'm going to submit to you immediate bills on the Supreme Council of Justice, on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and I'm counting on your, honourable national deputies, support. Dear friends! There are countries in the world where corrupt people are executed, but even there they are still taking, from time to time, a very large bribe. All of this should convince us of the need not to wage a fight against corruption simply to the punitive methods necessary for the impressive scale of the phenomena it has acquired in Ukraine. At the same time, and in my opinion, more effective are the preventive measures that gradually strip off soil that is the most fertile for corruption. Our practice gives us a few examples of the effectiveness of such an approach. The brightest of these is the electronic purchasing system with the symbolic name ProZorro. From a successful experiment, it has grown into an effective anticorruption tool, required for all budget purchases and purchases of state companies. It has already saved billions of national money. Official contacts with business are also minimized through deregulation. And that's why we're looking at it not only as a way to stimulate business, to stimulate economic growth, but also as an effective anti-corruption drug. Over the last two years, the number has been reduced by more than 40 percent, from 143 to 84. The number of licensed social activities has been reduced by 46 percent, the mandatory registration of foreign investment has been eliminated, the simplified registration of medical devices, the individual medical devices produced and registered in the countries of the European Union, and the United States are not subject to registration at all. Large-scale deregulation was carried out in the agricultural sphere. Only in the agribusiness certification procedures saved 7 billion dollars a year. And up to half of this regulation in Ukraine is written at the level of the law. Then, without your effective work, the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, this effective deregulation cannot and will not. At present, 39 deregulation bills have been registered, of which only 8 have been adopted in the first reading. In order to implement this plan, 70 effective ballots are needed and 5 laws are passed every week for six months. If a person does not seem to be affected by deregulation, he is mistaken. Business problems are presented to every Ukrainian, as the consumer pays for everything in the finals. And we need to clean up and simply erase all the obstacles -- tax, customs, administrative and bureaucratic, mental, which hinder businesses, train entrepreneurs, and deter investors, stop initiative and prevent jobs from being created in Ukraine. Without any desire to take the government's bread, I will note that the Cabinet of Ministers, in the light of the macroeconomic stability achieved and economic growth restored, must move from survival policy to development strategy and from macro-financial recovery to economic growth, from stallion to stable household budgets and the gradual increase in Ukrainian income. I see that the government is following these guidelines, and one of the drivers of our economic growth is unfortunately our forced militarization. Its short-term effects are desirable to turn it into multiplicity, which will affect not only the military and industrial complex, but also the development of dual-purpose production and in the field of raw security. It is a synergistic effect on the production of modern weapons and military technology, as well as on the peaceful application of innovative developments that were originally designed for war. As this all connects, I have once again found out about the Knowledge Day when I visited the Kyiv Institute of Technology, Sikorsky, where, as part of the innovation and manufacturing community, inventors work to defend themselves and immediately offer the results of their startups for conversion. By the way, I'm not going to miss the budget for the next year, which will be the cancellation of scholarships, the cancellation of state funding for graduate education and other experiments. [[Applause]] In early July, I met the leaders of successful Ukrainian startups, representatives of venture funds. And in the current state of the Ukrainian business, a modern innovation sector of the economy, oriented towards the global market, is being created from a macroeconomic perspective. According to 2015, IT became the third area in Ukraine by volume of exports, reaching a figure of $2.5 billion, representing 3 percent of Ukrainian GDP. More than 2,000 startups are registered in Ukraine and show a rapid increase to 100 percent per year. Last year’s investment amounted to $132 million, nearly half of which was provided by foreigners. Ten Ukrainian IT companies are included in the list of top-100 outsourcing companies in the world. We have a huge workforce potential, the most dynamic in Europe is the growing number of IT professionals and more than 90,000 now with an expected increase to 200,000 in the next year. And it is good that our higher education responds flexibly to this demand for labour markets. And I want to remind you that huge world-wide high-tech giants were born in garages and student dormitories. And our task with you is to support the developing IT sector as much as possible. At times, the APC is also one of the main sources of foreign exchange. Part of the agricultural sector in the overall export structure reached a peak of 25 years. The leading role of the agrosector in the context of building an innovative economy seems to be somewhat contradictory, but it is very important as long as it continues to grow the farm complex of high-tech muscle. The lack of the right to free sale and purchase of agricultural land certainly restrains investments in agricultural areas, reduces and violates the rights of peasants, by the way, depriving them of their last cents. [[Applause]] And it's axiomatic. But I also know the state of public opinion that is in Ukraine on this issue and the position of most parliamentary factions. I respect her and respect her. But how can I solve this problem, my dear deputies? It's your jurisdiction. Either hide your head in the sand and don't change anything, or still work on creating a land market in Ukraine, but with all possible safeguards against any negative consequences. No less intense than investment in Ukraine, we should also look for a market for Ukrainian goods. In addition to military intervention, Russia is certainly engaged in economic aggression against our nation. At the beginning of the decade, nearly a third of Ukrainian exports went to the Russian market. The Kremlin’s attack began before Maidan, and restrictions were imposed that led to a 15 - percent drop in Ukrainian exports to the Russian Federation in 2013. In 2015, compared to 2014, our exports to Russia decreased by half. And this isn't the bottom yet, the decline is going on right now: minus 34 percent on the sum of the first half of the year. A part of Russia in Ukrainian exports now accounts for only 9 percent with a further downward trend. Those who like to speculate on the subject that as long as the war, someone is making a profit to trade with Russia, the final figure should be interesting. In recent years our exports to the Russian Federation have dropped five times. And they probably thought that they would put Ukraine on its knees, which would increase unemployment, poverty, but that would not happen, and that would not happen. We search and find new markets. And it's probably strategically good that this has reduced our dependence on the Russian market, where the ball is governed not by the laws of the economy, but by political blackmail and imperial pressure. But we have to understand that Russia's aggressive closure of its market has become an economic shock for Ukraine, and it cost us, by some estimates, at least 15 billion dollars, we've lost tens if not a hundred thousand jobs, and this economic aggression is one of the main causes of the rapid decline in living standards. Please tell me, why did Russia do this? It started this policy first to undermine the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union, between the European Union and Ukraine, then it set itself more ambitious goals – to smother Ukraine economically, to hit finance, to lower resilience and politically, by deepening the social crisis, to increase the tensions in society, to warm up dissatisfaction with power and protest moods. They dream a lot of time-consuming elections, eliminating their hateful so-called Kiev regime. Unfortunately, there are people in Ukrainian politics who are willing to play this script consciously, there are people who are allowing themselves to be used blindly, and there are those who say, "God forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing." [[Applause]] But, my friends, I am convinced and confident that Ukrainian society and I will endure this pressure, I believe in Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people. And the main alternative for us in Russia is the European Union market. And since January 1, a deeper and inclusive area of free trade with the European Union has been in operation. Our increase in exports to the European Union in the first half of the year has already accounted for almost 7 percent, in crisis conditions. And the European Union's share of total exports is now 39.2 percent. There are structural changes in the geography of external trade. We're opening up Eastern markets for ourselves. And on social networks, I've recently seen a lot of irony about my August visit to countries in South Asia. Meanwhile, in the first half of the year, exports to Indonesia increased most of our exports. Imagine it's grown seven times. And today, this country with 252 million people needs the production of the Ukrainian agricultural sector, the Ukrainian machine building. And very important arrangements were reached during this visit. Obviously, this growth with Indonesia started at a very low level, but the perspective is quite obvious. And every new market, every additional percentage of exports are jobs, these are Ukrainian budget revenues, this is strengthening the national currency rate, but this is also part of my presidential work. And I'm sorry for the emotion, but I have to say, the decline in the standard of living of people, poverty, the financial difficulties of the vast majority of Ukrainians -- the high social cost of Russian aggression -- all this heavy stone lies on the heart. And on the one hand, I don't know the examples in history if in a country where fighting is taking place, the economy is flourishing. But I would stress that you and I have done everything we can to avoid default, to ensure macroeconomic stability, to maintain a critical minimum of social guarantees. And in cooperation with international financial organizations, they had to undergo tough and unpopular reforms, especially in the tariff area. I understand everyone, I understand everyone who's been hurt by these steps. But believe me, if we didn't do it, it would be even worse, there would be an economic collapse and a social collapse. And you, the distinguished national MPs, are probably closer to the people than the representatives of other branches of government and you are the first to be addressed with the cry of the soul. And no matter how sharp your performances are from time to time in this room, on television, in meetings with voters, I understand your motives very well. We are all together, even though each one of us feels responsible to the Ukrainian people for peace and prosperity, for the urgent tasks of raising the standard of living and combating poverty. As President, the Ukrainian government, I am confident that I am ready to cooperate with Parliament, but I firmly warn against simple decisions. It's very easy to make all Ukrainians millionaires. And we all remember when money was cheaper than paper for their printing. It's much more difficult to make people rich. And the beginning of the growth of the gross domestic product in Ukraine creates economic preconditions for halting the decline in living standards and the beginning of its restoration. And we need to support the government's initiatives in this direction, to hear the Supreme Council and, including the parliamentary opposition, to respond to the proposals of civil society. There are also political prerequisites. At the beginning of the year, we were given a very important experience for parliamentary-presidential democracy in overcoming the parliamentary-government crisis. We created a coalition, we chose a new government. In doing so, we need to learn to accept, without drama, a situational vote in Parliament when presidential or government initiatives support different factions of opposition or nonfractional groups. It's not a tragedy, it's a good thing when an important decision is based on the support of even the constitutional majority. For a little less than three years, we are separated from the next presidential election and slightly more than three, which remain until the planned parliamentary elections. And that finally gives us the opportunity to fight, not who better to promise, but who better to do. And we will, of course, continue our decentralization course, as I promised, to expand the powers and financial capabilities of local communities, and this will be proved by the 2017 budget project. In government, by the way, they expect approval from the Supreme Council, as a minimum, of 10 laws to strengthen decentralization. And I had just returned to Mariupol and was very happy that the development budgets in Mariupola, other cities, in Lviv, in Kiev, in Kharkiv, in Winnice, all of Ukraine's cities have grown from three to six times since 2013. Six times. This is a real decentralization. Dear National Deputies! The external threat has accelerated the process of forming a modern - day Ukrainian political nation on the basis of civil patriotism. All sociological surveys demonstrate fundamental changes in social consciousness. The issues of unity, assembly, and unitality are not even discussed. The indicators are all over the place with positive numbers. People pride themselves on Ukrainian citizenship, national symbols, honor, and respect Ukrainian language. The Euro-Atlantic vector, the European Union, NATO dominates the geopolitical orientations of the vast majority of Ukrainians. The war removed many questions from the agenda regarding the identification of foreign and hostile Ukrainian interests of symbols, traditions, and cultural codes. The Decommunization Act has dismantled more, imagine thousands of Lenin's two hundred idols. [[Applause]] The 26 districts, 987 inhabited areas, were deposed by Communist names, which by invisible mental threads tied their inhabitants to the former empire. The law restored justice for those who dedicated their lives to the struggle for independence and the compatriotship of the Ukrainian State. Historical truth in matters of national memory has been restored by the State. And that's thanks to you, and thank you so much for that. And now you and I are finally able to work together, and we need to triple our work for Ukraine's future. I think it's clear to everyone that we won't care to look at the intervention of another state and our church affairs. [[Applause]] In her attempts to exploit the interests of the neighboring State, the feelings of part of the Ukrainian Orthodox people. Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank you for bringing the Supreme Council to the Universal Patriarch of Warfolomy as the chairman of our Mother Church for giving a tomas about the Orthodox Church's auto-cafalia in Ukraine. Thank you for that. [[Applause]] Such a step was and is necessary, coming from a tradition whereby the Universal Patriarch’s view of such matters is of great importance to the secular authorities, and we have taken this tradition into account. And I hope his holiness will hear us very well too. And to take into account public opinion polls that show that more and more Ukrainian Orthodox citizens want to have, as has been established in most Orthodox countries, the only area of the Autokefal Church of Ukraine. [[Applause]] At the same time, I want to assure you that autocafalia means absolutely nothing about the establishment of the State Church. In constitutional principles, the State’s interaction with religious organizations will not change any coma, nor will freedom of conscience be restricted to anything or to anyone. Every Ukrainian has and will have the right to believe in God in his own way and to go to his church. Likewise, I thank you, distinguished national deputies, for the law that provides for an increase in the number of Ukrainian songs at radio stations. [[Applause]] And speaking two weeks ago at a meeting with representatives of the Ukrainian Diaspora, I congratulated the owners and top managers of some television channels in which part of the Ukrainian language is not acceptable. And I hope that the television industry will respond to this before you pass the law. [[Applause]] My dears, in such a sensitive sphere, self-regulation is always much better than coerced by the law, especially since we are not in any way encroaching on the right of TV channels and radio stations to speak Russian and other languages to meet the needs of all Ukrainian citizens. The unity of the country and the consolidation of Ukrainians as a modern political nation was, is and remains my top priority. The status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language will be filled with real meaning but with respect for the rights of national minorities. They have shown that events over the past two years have stood firm in the position of Ukrainian national patriotism, and the state must appreciate this, and they must value it very highly. Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! My foreign advisors! The authors of successful reforms in their countries say that more systematic changes have been initiated and are taking place in Ukraine in two years than in the previous 23 years. Maybe from the height of the historical process, they're better able to see, maybe they're not as painful as we are with you, they're feeling the obvious pain of this process of transformation. Carrying out reforms in hybrid warfare, annexation of one part of the territory, and occupation of another is a challenge. But we're moving forward. And the analysis of the experience of Georgia, Poland, Slovakia, Singapore and many other countries shows that the first and undeniable results of the changes are only three or six years after they began. But we don't have that much time. And I'm as dissatisfied as you are, and I understand how they don't meet the expectations of society. Obviously, there is a need to accelerate system modernization in all areas. And I'm sure historically and strategically we're on track. But I see a risk that the cat of political destabilization can crush the first social and economic rebirths that have been suffered by all the people, for which such a high price has been paid. And it's the inner shocks that an external enemy makes the main bet. And most of the problems we faced didn't happen yesterday or the day before. They are the result of many of the illusions and mistakes that accompany the entire period of independence. And today, this legacy is being seen as a complex historical challenge for all Ukrainian states. At the same time, the crisis period has opened up a range of opportunities and prospects that will enable Ukraine to respond to this challenge. The Ukrainians have recognized themselves as a nation, and the state stands firm on the democratic principles of the organization of power. The vector of external political cooperation and integration is finally defined. There are still many challenges ahead, but the trials and victories that have been won by the great efforts and the blood of the better sons and daughters of our people of all times leave us no choice but to win, to choose but to go ahead. And I'm sure everything will be fine! Thank you and the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the President of Ukraine for his participation in the opening of our session, the Government in charge of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I also thank all those who participated in the opening of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm calling it a ten-minute break. At 11:30, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. We now have the day-to-day oath-making of Ukraine's newly elected national deputies, and therefore I ask all the newly elected deputies to take their seats, prepare for taking an oath. And then, according to the Rules of Procedure, statements from heads and factions, we have 30 minutes for factions and groups for performances. And I ask all my colleagues to take up jobs so that we can continue our hard work. Please, the Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is continuing. I ask the heads of the factions to signal that the deputies enter the hall. And my separate appeal to the newly elected deputies to enter the hall. An oath is about to take place, and your presence is essential in that process. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, can we continue our work? Everybody in place? Please. So, honourable national deputies, on July 29th, 17th, 2016, the Central Electoral Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the interim elections of the Ukrainian People's Deputies on July 17, 2016: Konstanovic Irina Miroslavovna, elected in the one-man election district number 23; Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich, elected in the one-man election district number 85; Odarchenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, elected in the one-man election district number 183; Richard Tetjana Borisovna, elected in the one-man election district number 27; Chessov Sergey Volodymirovic, elected in the one-man election district number 114; Bogdan Dmitrovic, elected in the one-man election district number 114. 151; Mikitas Maxim Viktorovich, selected in the one-maned constituency number 206. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. And, dear fellows, I ask you to stop talking. There will be an oath. Please show respect, do not make noise, or take jobs. Thank you for hearing my call. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna, is invited to take an oath on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Irina Miroslavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have the great honour of taking the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the benefit of my fellow countrymen. I swear!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u11	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u13	Heroic glory! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Mr. Yuri, welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u15	Welcome, Mr. Yuri. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rickov Tetjana Borisovna, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I, Rick's Aunt Borissovna, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Serve the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u17	Congratulations, Mrs. Tetjana. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u19	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u20	Good afternoon, everyone! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Fatherland!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u21	The National Deputy of Ukraine Mikitas Maksim Viktorovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! A venerable Ukrainian community! I, Mikitas Maxim Viktorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National MP Mikitas Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all deputies for taking an oath. Join us in our work, our hard work, our delicate work. And I wish for success, a fruitful legislative activity. And now, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes at the beginning of our work Tuesday for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. For example, I report that the beginning of the 12 - hour break will be postponed until the factions and groups have finished speaking. From the "will of the people" to the word, Vladimir Litwin is invited. Please, Mr. Volodymyr, speak from the rostrum. Prepare a representative of the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u24	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We are all obviously under the impression of a powerful message, a powerful statement by the President of Ukraine. At the same time, let me express the thoughts of those who live in the depths of the Zitomir region in Polissa. I have to tell you, my dear colleagues, and I am convinced that those who have been and worked in the district during this period will agree with me, people in despair, people in despair, people in despair, people in anger. And they have one question: how to survive, how to survive under today's conditions, and what happens to people when they have to pay for community services in the fall. I have to say that in many villages especially lonely women or men, they have not heard what subsidies are, and no one has come to them. The second and main problem is the problem of medicine. In fact, the health system today is in agony. And people don't particularly believe in the next team of reformers who came up with the first decision is to abolish the ban on access to resuscitation. So I have to say that in the resuscitation everyone is getting, there's just nothing in these resuscitations. Another problem. Despite the heroic efforts of the minister of education and science, this is an educational problem. Schools, especially rural schools, are failing completely. Parents do not know what these reforms are, and how they will learn, and how their children will be appreciated. Constantly, and this third moment, in the last period, is the subject of the land market. Please tell me, who knows the real assessment of Ukrainian land? And I understand that this is the requirement of the International Monetary Fund -- to sell Ukrainian land quickly and finally, and then we're going to have to create reservations for these people living in rural areas. And the last moment that's particularly disturbing. What happens to us is beyond judicial action and prosecution in Ukraine. And there are calls for understanding, dialogue. A real dialogue is needed, but on the basis of order and law, which is to take effect in Ukraine. Unfortunately, especially in the last days, we can see that there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I urge you to listen more carefully to the speeches of our colleagues. And a representative of the Rebirth Group, Mr. Kulinic, please, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u26	Oleg Kulinich, MP's Rebirth Party. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like first of all to welcome everyone from the beginning of the new session and to wish that it was really productive. It is crucial that this productivity of Parliament's work be felt by people, and to this day, they are concerned only with one question of how they can survive in such extremely difficult conditions. Electricity tariffs have increased since September 1, which is 300 percent in the last two years. In three stages, there was a rise in heating tariffs, from 500 to 1,000 percent. In time, the tariffs on hot water rose. And at that time, the government promises that from December 1st to 10 percent, the minimum pension will be indexed, which is as much as 120 dollars. Inflation over the past year has accounted for 43 percent, and the minimum wage has increased by only 13 percent. As we can see, the numbers are completely immeasurable. Many people have no confidence that they will be able to pay for utilities when the new heating season begins. While the government promises to provide all subsidies, subsidies are also no way out and this does not solve the problem comprehensively and systematically. Experts are forecast to need an additional 15 billion dollars. Over the past few years, we have been constantly hearing from government officials about the rise in utilities and tariffs, and many other unpopular things in the social sphere caused by the conditions of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. From a total credit program of $17.5 billion, Ukraine received 6.7 and the last tranche of $1.7 billion a year ago. It is not clear what will end the next round of negotiations today, and it is not clear what will happen to the next tranche. In our view, then, it would be logical for the government to explain both to the national deputies and to every Ukrainian who benefits from such cooperation and that it brings benefits to every Ukrainian. Therefore, the MP's Rebirth Party would very much like to hear from the minister of finance as soon as possible in Parliament. We support all the constructive actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, but there must be some logic, clarity and clarity. And we believe that Parliament must control this process. So the Rebirth Party group requires the inclusion of one representative from each MP faction into a working group that will work on the conditions for receiving the tranche. We can also say that there is actually a failed privatization programme, and privatization should be the most basic one, one of the basis for filling the budget. Because most of the bills introduced by the government concerning privatization are not supported in the session hall, because the national MPs do not understand how privatization itself will take place. And the issue of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and privatization is very important in the context of state budgeting. So we would like the state budget to be introduced in time, by September 15, so that we can get to know him and get to know him in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u27	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u28	There's not much time left. And that is why we expect the MP's Rebirth Party to have an adequate position of government and of the entire Supreme Council deputy corps on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kulinich. I'd like to invite the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. According to recent surveys, 65 percent of Ukrainians want to leave Ukraine. A fifth of them want to stay abroad permanently. These killers, amazed at the figures, are sentencing all the talk about reforms, including the talk of the authorities about raising living standards, fighting corruption, fighting poverty. Unfortunately, from words to deeds, there is a great gap that the authorities cannot overcome. Because any reform should aim at improving the well-being of Ukrainians, and we have the opposite. What are these reforms that Ukrainians cannot pay for the utility? What are these reforms that can prevent pensioners from buying drugs? What are these reforms that deprive children of their right to education, to health care, to be deprived of their future? So the Radical Party faction is proposing a plan of action that will allow this genocide to be halted by the current authorities against the Ukrainians. First of all, we insist on a parliamentary debate on bills that will allow for the creation of jobs for Ukrainians, not the way the current authorities try to do so. We're proposing a series of bills that will allow for a real reduction in the cost of tariffs and residential services, not the way the current authorities do it to let Ukrainians out with their hands stretched out. When we talk about defense, about the security of the state, about the strong state, there can be no strong state, there can be no strong army, there can be no strong defense if there is no strong economy, if there is no work, no normal pay, and no confidence in tomorrow, if Ukraine is deprived of the ability to feed its families. Government policy is a policy of preserving poverty, it's a policy of corruption, it's a policy of depriving Ukrainians of the future. Proposals from the Radical Party. This is a policy of rebuilding national production, creating jobs for Ukrainians, radical wage increases, pensions, and Ukrainian citizens' incomes. We will be strong only if we respect ourselves first, if we want to respect everyone else. We will be strong only if millions of Ukrainians do not beg, belittle around the world, and have a job, a salary, and a life worth living for their children. So Parliament's task is to implement this policy. That's what we're calling you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u31	Thank you. Please welcome the leader of the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u32	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! The People's Front faction claims the following. Ukraine is waging war with a sneaky, cynicistic enemy. If we, the Ukrainians, cease to believe in our own strength and the ability to go through the path of fighting to a triumphant end, we risk losing our state. And history has shown that it is better to live and die for your country with weapons in hand than to die from famines in Gulagas and total genocide. That's why the People's Front claims that despite the raging attacks, we will strengthen our country in a war with an external enemy and fight the Russian agency inside the country, including in this sessional room. The line of the front lies here. The Grigorisin groups, the Ljocchina-Firtash groups, former Minister Zharchenk's groups, the disadvantages of Janukovič's personal environment, the personal friends of Putin, who signed cable gas contracts with him, are all ahead of you. A letter from Russian propagandist Stolarov revealed a terrible picture of a large mass of Russian tin cans and semi-mills in the Supreme Council. At the same time, Russia creates a ring of tension on Ukraine’s borders. Our faction proposes the following action plan: The Supreme Council must immediately take the appropriate decision to restore the financing of the defence order. As of September 1, 2016, government procurement and development budget of the Ministry of Defence had been funded by only 20 percent. The People's Front proposes the adoption of a new legislation that will allow the funds stolen from Yanukovich to be reimbursed and the changes made to the State budget, which will provide for the allocation of a billion and a half dollars, which were arrested by the Yatsenuk government a year and a half ago, for the payment of one-off payments to socially vulnerable groups, educators and other budget workers. And the other, the other half, is supposed to provide military factories. Given that Parliament will be in the budgetary process as soon as possible, we insist that the budget 2017 clearly prescribes the financing of the Armed Forces in the country of at least 5 per cent of gross domestic product. The People's Front believes it is necessary to continue the road repair, reconstruction and construction program in Ukraine. And the budget should include an increase in funding for education and a new increase in salaries for the military, the border guards and the police, as was done by the government of Yatsenuk. Parliament must immediately adopt the NCREKP Act. The law should regulate the scope of commission’s powers and allow members to carry out their duties under the law. As I return to the latest developments on the information front, I say that our faction's deputies have appealed to the U.S.S.A. to investigate the activities of deputies established by the Feesbec curators in the Supreme Council. On Thursday, we want to see a concrete result of the fight against Russian agents. We're demanding a disembarking outside Ukraine of the Russian puppet guide from Interu Shuvalov. In addition, the People's Front requires an inventory of Russian oligarch property in Ukraine. We insist on the approval of the Supreme Council's decrees to extend the sanctions list to specific companies and citizens of Russia. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u33	Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u34	And the last. The People's Front also requires a public meeting of the National Television and Radio Council to analyse the entire language content displayed on television channels and in the media. We must stop the information war that is waged against us in our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. Please welcome the leader of the Igor Green's Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, my sincere congratulations to you on the 25th anniversary of Ukraine's independence, which our country celebrated two weeks ago. For our modern history, August 24 is the most important day of every citizen's life. Twenty - five years ago, right here, the most important event in our country’s history, the Supreme Council adopted an act declaring Ukraine’s independence. And I am glad that I was one of those who approved that decision. But just recently, Ukraine celebrated another sign anniversary, which is inextricably linked to the historic desire of the Ukrainian people to live in their prosperous state, which has been 160 years since the birth of John Frank. If we have chosen Independence from Shevchenk's will, today we must learn to build a European state by reading Frank. We cannot wait any longer for ours from Washington with a new and righteous law. It is not the time for the Moscow and the Lachish to serve, but it is time for Ukraine to live. The Stoneman Franco has entered Ukrainian history as the second largest since Kobzar. His prophetic words, which he wrote in the famous poem "Moses" about Ukrainian statehood at a time when our people only dreamed of it, still remain relevant. For us, they are to be a living example of faith and to inspire us in hard work. Our sacred duty is to build a flourishing state in the desert, to make defeats a victory, and now the faithless people make a full, happy member of European society. More sweat, less blood. You will not build an economically strong and prosperous European country with a powerful performance. On the contrary, the constant promises of the heavenly manna give rise to only complete disappointment in society. This is a straight line to the loss of independence and statehood. I refer to my fellow Members of Parliament, at least to those who are sincere and not merely expressing democratic values, the European development of Ukraine. We don't have time for political struggle and to raise our own ratings. Our shared responsibility to the Ukrainian people is now at the heart of economic growth. Ukrainian citizens want freedom and a predictable perspective. And here again, I want to quote John Frank's words that best characterize the current historical stage in Ukraine: "I am convinced that the economic situation of the people is the main basis of his life, his development and his progress. When the economic situation is bad, talk about the attack, science is an empty chatchain. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u37	Please give me 15 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u38	Such an economic situation is not eternal and unaltering; it has set in motion the course of historical development, and it must likewise fear, make room for another, more perfect, more just, more human." Without any exaggeration, today the fate of Ukraine in our hands, the mission of Parliament in every democratic country in the world is to film.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u39	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u40	We are obliged to consolidate the nation, form the foundations and principles of economic growth. And again, Franco: "The song and the work are two great powers! I wish to serve them." We learned to sing, even here from the rostrum, and we had to learn to work for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Igor. The leader of the opposition block, Yuri Boyko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u42	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The new session begins at a time when economic, political, and social problems have worsened in our society. The work of the last two governments appointed by the parliamentary majority resulted in industrial declines, loss of external markets, and a decline in the standard of living of people. The country is creating conditions for a socio-economic catastrophe. Subtlely lost position of Ukraine on the external political arena. None of the initiatives of power have reached their goal. The implementation of an association with the European Union, the lost markets in production, the misunderstanding of the granting of a visa-free regime, and the lack of loans to the IMF are blocked. All of this has failed on an external political level. Within countries, law enforcement authorities are unable to deal with the criminality situation and ensure the safety of citizens. We see inefficiencies in police reform, as well as resonance crimes committed, either by the participation of the police, or by their total inaction. No one has yet claimed responsibility for the death of the four Nazis on August 31 from the bombing of grenades under the Supreme Council. The investigation into the events in the Odessa Trades House is blocked on May 2, 2014. The same tragedy, had it not been for a firefighter's professional, could have occurred on this Sunday, September 4th, during an insolent attack and arson of the Inter Channel. In many ways all these failures are explained by the lack of control by the opposition authorities. In response to criticism of power, opposition MPs are being pressured to intimidate and destroy another point of view. All of this hampers the basic role of Parliament, the legislative provision of state development, the control of power and the management of economic crises. We think that the Supreme Council should focus on priority issues that really concern society. First of all, it's east reconciliation, support for the real economy, social protection, jobs, reduction of dragon tariffs. Parliament must provide legislative support for these processes. Otherwise, the Supreme Council should recognize itself as ineffective and self - dissolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two other factions have not signed up for the performance, have not made it. I understand from Self-Help, leader Oleg Beresuk. Please, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u44	Your Honourable fellow MPs, Madam Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen! Today, the President stressed three pillars of state development: peace, security, reform. These are really pillars of any quality process, whether commercial or not. But to build quality government and state, you need another element, which is both a source and a goal, which is people's trust. There's no trust in people, there's no state. And today our activity should be directed toward finding this trust there among the people. What do you want to do? Indeed, security is number one. Today, Parliament has the task and function of creating civilian control over the use of defence funds in order not to create a wall that does not exist and not to think that it was or was not. The 11th class last year counted and built the same money -- and we're going to hand it over to the government -- a wall that is a hundred times better than the existing one. Next, corruption. As long as there are corrupts sitting in this room, they will not be subject to law enforcement, and a small fish will be caught, and a large one will swim with pleasure, there will be no trust. Until the electronic declaration becomes fully operational, there will be no trust. The electronic declaration and the anti-corruption court is the task and specific task of Parliament for this period. Today, the president compared, talked to the passage of repression and the fight against corruption. Today, there are people who are fighting corruption, including those who are fighting corruption. Among them are the welfare, among them those who truly work well for the country and hinder the corrupt, including those who sit in this room. Trust will be provided when teachers who are missing are lacking, there is a shortage of teachers in villages, there is a physical shortage, and we are reducing the cost of education. When there's no money for, and there's no countermeasure and children are sick, and we can't in this room adopt a law that will make it easier for doctors to do autonomous work in hospitals and hospitals and turn doctors not just from corrupt workers who take $100 per operation, because there's nothing to live for, and normal people who provide services and get a reward for it, there's no trust. Peace, security, the reforms they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u45	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u46	There must be confidence in a nation that creates conditions for their quality of life, development, security, and child rearing. This is our main task. And the last. No election, no hard work, and the Ukrainian Election Act on a proportional basis with open lists is the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u48	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Actually, today is the first day of the new session. We have a parliamentary-presidential republic. The president announced the speech, and the Head of the Supreme Council gave the speech. After that they all together: the President, the Prime Minister, the government, all the authorities sitting on the left, the Head of the Supreme Council, rose up and went somewhere in the heat of the session all together. I think they're picking up right now here in the next room in the rest room a cup for the start of a new session. But at the same time, the heads of factions, who today represent the parliamentary republic, who today in principle talk about the key things of the country's life, speak practically in an empty hall with empty rostrums. And even our leader, the head of the Supreme Council, is hanging out somewhere. Dear friends! So the parliamentary-presidential form of government doesn't work. In addition, a quarter of the deputies in the Supreme Council followed them immediately. Another quarter turned their backs on the rostrum and perhaps exchanged news about how well they had spent the summer. Dear friends! The first thing that the work of the Supreme Council and the new session would have to begin is the strategic meeting of the President of the country, the government, the Prime Minister, the heads of factions, the heads of committees to determine what we are doing in a country that falls economically and socially. What are our priorities? How are we going to take a budget resolution? And this is a concentrated policy for the next year. Moreover, it is not in order for the day to approve a budget resolution, which three and a half months ago would have to be adopted and which is actually put there when you all went on vacation, and is a continuation of the country's poverty strategy. I listened attentively to the statement by the President and everyone who spoke, including the Head of the Supreme Council. I mentioned Soviet times. When, the worse the socio-economic tragedy in the Soviet Union was, the longer the talks were. And one of the leaders was even spoken of as saying, "brows are black thick, words are long empty." Dear friends, or we manage the country, or long and empty speeches. I have not heard a word in the talks about the fact that there has been a threefold decline in the level of real life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u49	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u50	And what was the result of 2015 was published by the United States Central Intelligence Agency. The data show that Ukraine came out second after Lesotho at the death rate. Lesotho, where life expectancy is 36 years and 30 percent of people with AIDS. I call for a return to strategic and effective good governance of the country and an end to the absurdity that is taking place today at the level of all branches of government; to work as a parliamentary-presidential form of government, not as a bunch of corrupters who carry out their interests. I call for a change of strategy and a change of attitude for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, a break of 30 minutes is announced. Then we ask everyone to gather at 12.40-50 to continue the very important points of our agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the time laid down by the break regulations is over, and I ask all the national deputies to enter the hall to continue our work. Please come in, take your seats. Right now, we have a day-to-day question of whether or not a judge should be arrested or arrested. A resonant, important question for both society and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so I ask everyone for responsibilities and discipline, and I ask you to come in and take up jobs. Please. Colleagues, dear colleagues, we move on to the next item in the agenda. It is a matter of giving consent to the arrest and arrest of a judge. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been brought before the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Romanyuk, for his consent to the arrest and arrest of Judge Dniprovsky of the District Court of Kiev, Mr. Ceaus Mikoli Aleksiyovich. The Supreme Council of Ukraine in the fight against corruption has always taken a firm and firm state position, and that is why we should start the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. This issue is included in the agenda, without a vote, in accordance with article 4 and article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its consideration is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council and the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at its meeting, with the participation of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, reviewed the submission of an agreement to detain and arrest the court of the Dniprov region of Mikli Chaus. The findings of the committee and the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine are given to you. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has gone through all procedural steps in accordance with current legislation and in this respect, we are considering this issue exclusively at a time that is foreseen and when all procedures have been completed. And, with your permission, I would like to invite the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk, to answer the questions of the representatives of the MP factions and groups and the national deputies of Ukraine. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, you have 10 minutes and how much you want to use for the performance, and then you can ask anyone who wants to ask you a question. Please. Thank you. Attention, colleagues! And quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Nazar Holodnicki, sent a submission to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which raised the issue of the need to obtain the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consent to arrest and arrest the judge of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Chows Mikoli Olexiyovich. According to the report, Judge Chaus is suspected of demanding a long period of time, and on August 9, 2016, he received a bribe of $150,000 from the United States for a verdict in a criminal case in which a defendant is sentenced to a penalty of no free will. The record also shows the basis on which such suspicions are based. It refers to the testimony of witnesses who explained that the funds previously received from law enforcement officials had been transferred to Judge Chaus at the request of Judge Chaus. These are protocols for the removal of the review and identification of funds, according to which part of these funds are removed from the means of transport, the car used by Judge Chaus, and the other part in the land where Judge Chaus hid these funds, as well as the materials of inconclusive investigation, such as video surveillance materials and information obtained from sources of information, are also supported by other evidence. In view of this and of the fact that Judge Chaus is not present at the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine to carry out the necessary investigations with him, there are no family members and coworkers at his place of residence and at his place of work, his colleagues cannot tell where he is, explaining that they are not aware of this, that Judge Chaus’s telephones are disconnected, there is reason to believe that while he remains at large, he can hide himself from the investigation and trial. Under these circumstances, I have decided to support this submission and have brought it to your, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, thank you for your statement. We have eight minutes to ask questions and answers, and I ask the representatives of the MP factions and groups, the Ukrainian national deputies to record a question to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please record. Lensky Alexiyyovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Lozov Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u56	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, what is your opinion on how we can get out of this situation when it is happening today, and we must give due credit for your support for the act of justice against this villain, Judge Chaus? But Chaus isn't here, he's in the annexed Russia Crimea. How can we get out of this situation? Maybe some legislative changes to keep them from running away when they had a "hot cock" in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u57	As a result of your support, you have adopted the Act of 2 June amending the Constitution of Ukraine on Justice, which limits judicial immunity. And after September 30, if they did similar acts, they would be deprived of immunity by the judges, the immunity would apply only to their functional duties — the exercise of justice. Since getting bribes is a common crime, if a judge allows it, no one will need it, and the authorities of the pre-trial investigation will rightfully decide on the matter without anyone's consent to arrest and arrest the judge by bringing them directly to trial. I hope that this will be done quickly and will not allow judges who commit such unworthy acts to avoid being held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u58	Thank you. Logan George Volodymyrovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u59	Logan George, People's Front faction. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, we have always supported any initiative to bring to justice any crime, and certainly what is involved in corruption crimes. It is a disease that must be cured in our country. In the meantime, I'd like to ask you. In this case, it's a systemic breach, and it's relatively direct to Mr. Chaus. Do you not see what may happen in connection with a breach of the rules or other legal acts, he may receive a positive decision in court in connection with a violation at the very stage of the investigation or infringements that have now been committed or obtained by appropriate means? Please provide your legal assessment of the materials that are in your possession and guarantee that persons are held accountable for committing crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u60	Honourable National Deputys of Ukraine, my mandate as Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in the detention and arrest procedure is not provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which shows that I am not a procedural figure, I do not have access to criminal materials, I do not have the right to assess and re-evaluate evidence collected, to verify the correctness of qualifications, to act by a particular judge. And my powers are clearly laid out in the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Strictly following the requirements of this Rules, according to which submission should be motivated – it is motivated – should contain facts – it contains a fact that the stated fact of obtaining a bribe judge, evidence on which such facts are based, on which the evidence is based, I have come to the conclusion that there is a basis for supporting such submission. Try to estimate it and predict it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u62	To predict how events may unfold in the future when the prosecutor brings a detention and arrest to court, I have no right and cannot, since this may be regarded as some kind of signal to the court that will consider such a submission as to how it should be done properly in this situation. The court will act independently, objectively, and justly, and I am convinced of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Babak Alona Valerievna, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u64	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u65	Your Honor, could you enlighten us: was it considered by the Supreme Council of Justice before the Anti-Corruption Office with the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office conducted this investigation? Second, it is related to this question: The materials provided by anticorruption prosecutor Nazar the Cold Man mention that Chaus told the man he was asking for bribes to share with the head of the Dniprov court. Accordingly, has this information been proved to the High Council of Justice? What actions are being taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u66	The Honourable People's Deputy, referring to the question of the responsibility of Judge Chaus, was the subject of a hearing by the High Council of Justice, which involved the adoption of decisions on the Anti-Maidan cases. The Higher Council of Justice has made an appropriate decision, refused to apply for release, and has qualified it as a disciplinary offence, not a violation of a judge’s oath. With regard to this case, the head of the Dniprovsky District Court, I am not ready to answer that question. Perhaps he can shed light on the presence here of Deputy Attorney General Nazar Kolodnicki. I don't know today whether it's a question in the materials of the High Council of Justice, or whether it's in the agenda of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u67	Thank you. And one last question. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u68	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! We will, of course, vote, support your submission. But please open your eyes to your previous submission, to the fact that we have already given our consent. In particular, we agreed to attract and apprehend, and arrest the Odessa judge, Mr. Buran's so-called arrow, Judge of the Pecherski Reissud Kitsuk, King and Wolf, and what their fate and whether those votes and our support for your submissions have found further results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u69	The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on the issue of consent to arrest and arrest. If the authorities of the pretrial investigation see the need for the Attorney General to initiate the detention and arrest of the judge, they do. That was the case with Judges King, Kitsuk, Wolf, and Judge Chase. Having considered such motions, the court ruled on the judges of Tsarjevic, Kitsuk. Kitsuka and Vuka refused to accept such arrests and arrests, and another precaution was taken. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that none of these judges have been hidden from the investigation and trial and are now under investigation. As for Judge Chaus, the court was satisfied: he was arrested. Today it has continued to be kept under guard, and the material of the case is being prepared for referral to court for a decision in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u70	Thank you very much, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Thank you for the report, for the answers. Dear colleagues, I report that the judge of the Dniprovsky District Court, Mikola Chaus, was invited in advance to meet the committee at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. But neither the committee nor the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council appeared. We have acted according to all the rules of the Rules, but by law we have the right to consider this decision in its absence if it does not appear. And I, my honourable colleagues, would like to give the floor to the conclusion of the committee of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice of Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. My fellow Members, I must tell you that after the adoption of the relevant changes to the Constitution and the adoption of the new edition of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, it seemed that such facts could no longer happen in Ukraine, because the very same legislation that was, the constitutional legislation that had recently been changed in the walls of Parliament, was supposed to be the one that made it impossible to develop events in the same way. But unfortunately, it's not a warning for everyone, and today we have a covert fact, I hope that this is the last fact, because you know that literally after two weeks Parliament is losing the right to consider similar precedents and that this right will be granted to the High Council of Justice only when it comes to functional immunity, i.e. if there are grounds for doubting the judiciality of the decisions of the courts, and if something like that happens to Judge Chaus, when there are all signs of a bribe by a person in office, then there will be no need to wait for any permission, and the law enforcement authorities authorized by that State can detain and deliver to the court for a precautionary measure in any Ukrainian court. But this is about perspectives, but today we have a picture that has just been outlined in general by the Head of the Supreme Court, and I just have to point out for the sake of the minutes that we have already reported, on behalf of the committee, that this issue has been discussed not only by Judge Chaus but also by the Chief of the Supreme Court and the Attorney-General's Office, and on behalf of the Attorney-General's Office today, also by the Deputy Attorney-General, Director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor Nazar Ivanovic Holodnicki. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, if he deems it appropriate to complete the Supreme Council or the head of the committee with regard to the situation of the case, he may exercise that right. With regard to Judge Chaus, neither our invitation to participate in the work of the committee nor for today’s meeting did he appear, but this does not mean that he does not know what is going to happen, that he was on the committee on the subject, and that he will be in the session room today. And the proof of this, the best evidence of this is that Mr. Chaus' lawyer was present today at the committee meeting, who, on commission, represented his position during the debate on the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Now, something formal about the conclusion of the 220th Rule Committee, which we have made today at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council. On 16 August, the Supreme Council received the appropriate submission of the Attorney-General's Office, which was supported and introduced by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to allow the detention and arrest of the judge of the Dniprovov city court of Kyiv Chows Mikola Alexiyovich. Accordingly, 17 numbers were sent to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, which, according to the subjects of the Committee's knowledge, is mandated to give an immediate, preliminary opinion on the matter at the Committee's meeting. Our mandate, in accordance with article 220 of the Rules, is to clearly monitor compliance with the procedure for dealing with this issue within the walls of Parliament. Therefore, I must point out that today, at a meeting of the committee, we have made it clear that the Head of the Supreme Court has made an appropriate application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and therefore this is the appropriate subject of the appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when it comes to the issue of whether to allow detention under guard or arrest, and, more specifically, the arrest of a judge. Accordingly, he was approached by the Deputy Attorney General, the director of the Specialized Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, who is also an appropriate subject of the appeal to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Thus, the entire legal procedure for submission to the Supreme Council has been clearly followed. Today, both the Head of the Supreme Court and the Deputy Attorney General, who, like Mr. Chaus' lawyer, were able to present the situation in the case and to answer the questions of committee members who were interested in the matter. As a result of the discussion, the Committee unanimously notes that all representatives of all factions and groups and non-fractionals have supported the noted submission of the Attorney-General's Office, which was supported and introduced by the Supreme Court, and recommend to the Supreme Council, after considering the relevant materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u72	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u73	decided to recognize that the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules and that the submission of the Attorney-General's Office, supported and submitted by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to allow the detention and selection of a precautionary measure in the form of detention under the watch of Judge Dniprovsky of the District Court of Kiev Ceausa Mikoli Aleksiyovich, may be supported. In particular, I note, Mr. Head, that this is about the consideration of two draft decrees that are under consideration by the National Deputies, namely the granting of a stay and the decision to grant an arrest to Judge Chaus. In this order, I ask you to consider the matter and vote in the session room. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u74	Thank you. I want to point out that the committee has taken a decision within the time limit provided for by law, and now we have the opportunity to discuss this decision of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. I would like to remind you that it is very important to follow through on this matter, so we need to consider it fully. We're going to have statements from factions and groups up to 16 minutes, 2 minutes from each faction, and 4 minutes from each faction, for the national MPs so that non-faction MPs can also participate in the discussion. So first, I ask you to sign up for the factions and groups. Colleagues, please hold the recording. Please. The Radical Party, Andrey Lozova. Please, two minutes. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u75	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I hope it's too late to call this hall to vote, to support the arrest of Judge Nicholas Chows. I would highly, highly recommend it to my colleagues, in the determination where all the materials read it. Agatha Christy didn't write like that, according to our specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. The minimum details show that Judge Chaus is guilty, in minimal, of petty matters, of how and under what circumstances he took bribes. But I don't think, and I don't personally know any person who, after reading the news on August 16th that Judge Chaus was caught in a bribe, well, this anecdote with the money in the glass jars that he buried himself, that anyone suspected. Because everyone knows the price of Chaus and all the judges in general. And perhaps our biggest mistake after the dignity revolution is that at least a dozen judges, such as Chaus, such as Burbella, such as Karaban, such as Litvinova, such as the Nine, we did not hang ourselves on the Crusades. Because as we've been doing the wrong thing, it's still going on. Even before being caught in a bribe, the same House was glorified in political repression, including the outright abuse of Gennady Korban. Here are the national deputies who were with me in the courts. Chaus was famous for taking the arrests out of the accounts of Yuri Ivanyushchenka (Jura Yenakiewski). And I've warned and warned in those courts all these saucers in court robes, such as Chaus. All of you, sit down. So far, he's fled to Crimea, but there's still going to be normal power in Ukraine, and we're going to get to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Semenchenko Semen Igorovich of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u77	Request to convey the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u78	Self-help, of course, votes in favour of allowing Judge Chaus to be arrested. I ask everyone to pay attention to what the Chief Justice has said. Chaus was actually considered on the High Council of Justice after Euramydan. Because he sent Jews behind bars. Although there is special legislation against such judges, he was left at work. Both before and after Euromaidain, this judge was used for repression in exchange for his right to take 150,000 of the people he released from custody or excused. I think it's a reason to say thanks again to the anti-corruption prosecutor, the Anti-Corruption Bureau for breaking the circle message. But the reason to think about the scope of this circular message is the same. Such as the House left behind for the new repression of Eromaydan, there is a great deal of corruption to cover again. The next few days in Parliament may be to consider the granting of an agreement, not on arrest, but on the permanent appointment of judges who had worked for five years in the days of Yanukovic. And although there are certainly people among them who are honored to wear the robe of a judge, we very much ask all of our fellow Members of Parliament to be as hasty as possible to study each candidate and not to take sin by heart, not to multiply the chaussies. Today's vote is a reason for us to think about our responsibility for such judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u80	I'm sorry, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u81	Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, if you read the introduction of a deputy attorney general, you can write novels. Because all the materials that are presented here, the form of their supply -- the hiding, the appearances, the telephones, the changing of phones, the increase in rates that were to be taken into account, as it turns out, and the costs that should be passed on to the head of the court. And I'm surprised, by the way, that this episode isn't singled out as a single episode. Next, the rate increases as the court hearing approaches. I mean, it's just a detective where Conan Doyle is resting. But the main thing here may not be that. And let's see, even if we don't change the Constitution, what today's law enforcement system can do about the judiciary. I would like to remind you that the restrictions that are in the Constitution were in place until we voted on these changes and made this situation easier, these were the limits of two only things -- this is an arrest, and this is the final verdict of a court that allows criminal direct responsibility. Everything else is allowed, namely: all the means of search, tracking, tracking information, any things that allow you to do anything except arrest. Has this been used? In my opinion, this is the whole system that needs to go through Chase's case, and the fact that our faction is going to vote in favour of it is undoubtedly allowing today's verdict to be passed on to the entire system. Because, sorry, we can't have a responsibility directly for Chaus and not have the same responsibility for other people who are covering the total corrupt system of the state. That's why I think this example is the most important example for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u83	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u84	Fighting corruption is not just a fight against Judge Chaus, it's a fight against a total system of corruption when "times" are just screws in this system that allow you to create what you have. So, no doubt, we are voting, but the conclusions we draw from this are far more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich passes the word to Igor Lapin, "The People's Front." Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u86	Glory to Ukraine! Of course, the People's Front faction will unanimously support this decision of parliament, and villains like House have to be multiplied by zero and every day and every hour and every minute. But I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished anti-corruption prosecutor to the fact that we have problems. And I would like to draw your attention to the honourable Head of the Supreme Court, to whom I refer from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Court and our guests in Parliament! I'm talking to you. Please pay attention. You place a small mine in this action. Let me explain. You told the committee today that Judge Chows might be in Crimea, which means Crimea is Ukraine, and that's an obstacle to international investigation. I don't think he's in Crimea, I think he's in Russia, his patron Yuri Ivanyushchenka, or somewhere near them. So I don't think that's going to be an obstacle to putting it in international search, including. So I urge you, my dear colleagues, we must overcome this system that saves ourselves. We have to break this total circular message in the judicial system. And I fully support Jehora Sobolev, who just talked about it. Remember, though, that the absence of a system of justice gives rise to self - justice. If we don't clean up the justice system, we won't have anything. We will have disgruntled people who, I emphasize, went to Midan, not for a piece of bread, but for lack of justice. So I urge you to take part in the vote, leave your personal affairs and vote for the resignation of the judge, and for the cleansing of our system. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich, "Block of Peter Prashenko". Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, Peter Dustenka's Block will definitely support this decision and vote for it. It's a shame that we can't hear today, as from a well-known intermediation, a representative of the transportation department, especially Judge Chaus, this "trilitre judge," as he is called in the people. And I would very much like these things to not, in fact, continue to repeat that we are actually making these decisions by default. Is this the responsibility of the law enforcement agencies, or is it the Supreme Council’s fault? Now, let's see, there have been accusations that Oneshchenka has escaped, and now you can blame the Cold Man for letting Chows escape. But we understand the question, not that. And the question is that we're a little bit scared here today to give 300 votes for removing the MP's immunity. Everyone here has a motivation for this, about not wanting to record parliamentary immunity. Therefore, Oneshchenko is both fleeing and cannot be detained by law, under the Constitution, because he then, because of a violation of the procedure before the European Court of Human Rights, is effectively closing the case completely against himself. But we can avoid that. There is Bill 5038, which limits the rights of members of the people to go abroad if criminal conduct is violated against them. And let's get together on Thursday morning, vote for this bill, and so that each of the national deputies against whom there is some suspicion can answer all the questions of investigation. As for the judges, we took this step, and since September 30, when changes to the Constitution come into force, the judges will no longer be able to escape the crime scene. And we just need to get our law enforcement authorities ready right now to catch these three-litre judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the factions and groups who wanted to speak? Can we move on to the performances of the National Deputies? Thank you. We can. So I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs, and in this case it's about the non-fractional national MPs, so that they can mark their position, it's four minutes. Please hold the recording, please. John Winnick. Next up is Illenko. Two performances, please. Ivan Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! You know, I'm looking at the procedural issue of removing Judge Chaus' inviolability. And it should be noted that this is a simple enough question that the whole of Ukraine understands, because Judge Chaus, in the sense of the Ukrainians, is a criminal, he is taking so long today. In fact, at the end of the President's speech, we had to work at least three hours to 14 hours to consider a bunch of drafts, but we're now dealing with a procedural issue. We don't have the issue of financing an army. Yes, the President talked today about the special confiscation, we will certainly work with the Ministry of Justice today on any alternative options that will allow us today to actively raise the money stolen from Ukraine by Yanukovich and his environment and return to the security sector funding. But it probably won't even solve the issue of financing the security sector in the current year, because we don't have 4.5 billion dollars to provide military U.S.S. dollars that are on contract today serving and protecting Ukraine. We're short 600 million dollars to finance the foreign service, we're finally short 2.5 billion dollars to fund even law enforcement. And these are the issues that the Supreme Council has to decide urgently. Because in November and December, we may find ourselves in a situation where our security, law enforcement, military units will not receive any wages. Then, indeed, there will be a very serious security situation in the country. You know, it's ridiculous to look like a defense sector that's standing in a war, and we're spending three hours removing the intrusiveness of a petty Ukrainian judge from a bribe. Let's speed something up! I'm officially addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, so why don't we cut down on this stupid procedure? We've voted, we've moved on, we've got a war in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Let me just remind you, once we changed the procedure, there was a Supreme Court decision to annul the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, by calling for something, we need to understand the consequences of such a decision. We don't have to give any corruption a chance to get him to press charges against the Supreme Council's decision in court. Please, the last closing statement is Yuri Lewchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u92	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, there's been a couple of times during this talk, and it seems that the problem has been solved, that everything will be fine since October, and no judge will run away, and there'll be a great fight against corrupt judges in general. I'd just like to draw the attention of our respectable citizens to the fact that this is an open manipulation and a lie, once again, you're being duped. I would like to quote a new version of article 126 of the Constitution, which will work, in effect, when changes to the Constitution will come into force. It follows: "Without the consent of the High Council of Justice, a judge may not be detained or detained in custody or arrested before the indictment is rendered by a court except for the detention of a judge during or immediately after the commission of a serious or particularly serious crime." Only if a judge is caught in a bribe is it right when he gets it, only then he doesn't need to be touched. In all other cases, it remains as intact as it was before. And so is the national MPs. There's a good bill here to keep us from going abroad. The bill is good, we vote for it, "Freedom." And it's not just, you know, this bill is worthless, because there's still a rule in the Constitution about the integrity of MPs. And as long as this rule is in the Constitution, there is no rich MP to put in place, because here 95 percent of the rich MPs will always be able to escape, because that bill is unfortunately unconstitutional. So instead of doing honest manipulations, you start lying to people again from the first session of the summer. Find the political will and change the Constitution, take away the complete integrity of the people's deputies, the judges and the President, and then really show the society that you don't want caste in the country to have the same as now, and you really want to be the same. A mother of rights like the entire Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to remind you that, given the complexity of the procedure for removing intact, this Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted the amendments to the Constitution proposed by the President of Ukraine, adopted the Law on the Court and the Status of Judges, which simplifies as much as possible further from September 1st the procedure for removing immunity. Since October 1st, I'm sorry, October 1st. This is our joint decision, and I think it was a very big step forward. But as long as this procedure remained unchanged, I stressed and stressed, we had a precedent when, by breaking the procedure, we had a decision to make a difference. I want to sincerely welcome the actions of the anti-corruption specialized prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor's office as a whole, their difficult but, at the same time, responsible work with corruption. But I would like to make a point, Mr. Nazar. As all deputies, I must have been surprised by the statement one summer that we cannot arrest Judge Chaus because there are no members of the Supreme Council and there is no session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When I called the Supreme Court, it turned out that there had not even been a prosecution before the Supreme Court. It was not until five days after some officials of the prosecutor’s office stressed that there was no meeting and therefore no decision. We went through the whole procedure, there was your submission to the Supreme Court, there was the submission of the Supreme Court to Parliament. During the 20 days stipulated by law, Ruslan Knyazevich made a clear decision under the law. We shouldn't be trying to "undercut" each other in those moments, we shouldn't be trying to film some sort of fervor that we said we'd arrest him if it wasn't for the Supreme Council if they were there. We must act all as one team and respectfully refer to the highest legislative body, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which, I stress, in the fight against corruption has always taken a decisive and consistent position, and I am convinced, it will continue to be a joint activity and a common front against corruption. And now we can move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I think this vote will be a sign, and I think it's important for every honest national MP to take part in this vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall, heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. In 30 seconds, we're going to move on to the decision on this issue. I would like to emphasise that we have two orders: 5070 – to grant the order to detain Judge Dniprovovsky of Ceaus Mikoli and 5071 – to order the arrest of Judge Chaus Mikoli Aleksiowiovich. These two decrees I'm going to put in that sequence, one by one, to the vote. Please, colleagues, come in, we're taking up jobs. Is there a level of readiness and full mobilization in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Let's move on to making a decision, dear colleagues. So I'm putting to the vote a bill of order (5070) to give consent to the detention of the judge of the Dniprovia Court of Kiev Ceaus Mikoli Alexiyovich. People's deputies, please vote. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:38:22]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the next decision that has already been discussed. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order (registration number 5071) on the granting of an arrest, being held under the custody of Judge Dniprovsky of the District Court of Kyiv Chaus Mikoli Alexiyyovich. People's deputies, please vote. Anyone who supports this decision and the decision given, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:39:10]] For 279 Decision taken. Once again, Parliament has demonstrated that we have taken a firm, uncompromising and hard stand in the fight against corruption. Welcome, fellow MPs. Thank you again for the quality work of the prosecutor and the specialized prosecutor. Thank you, Head of the Supreme Court, for quick response and referral to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you to the committee for their quality professional work, and welcome to the decision-making process. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, to avoid delay, I am signing these two decrees, which we have just adopted, so that they will take immediate action so that there will be no delay in signing those decrees. And we call on law enforcement authorities to do their part more quickly. The Supreme Council has fulfilled its responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we now have an important question: this is the confirmation of the order of the day of this. fifth session. But we're going to get to the break, I think we're going to look at it. I have a question and advice for you. Yesterday during the Conciliation Council, we talked about this. Each year, at the beginning of the session, in connection with the accumulation of a huge number of drafts to be considered by the committee, we had a tradition that we defined, not midday, but full - time work on committees on Wednesday. A number of committee heads have turned, and I'm betting on your judgment. If you see that logic and support, let's make a change and set a full day tomorrow. If you don't see that logic, we won't accept it. With your permission, I'd like to exchange my thoughts and make a decision. If there's no support between the heads of factions, we won't go out if there's support, let's talk. Colleagues, I'd like us to exchange our thoughts on the factions. Who, please, would like to express themselves from among the factions’ heads? Colleagues, is this position supported? Supported. Then, colleagues, I'm going to propose a vote if there's room will, let's vote. Thus, honourable national deputies, in view of the need for the committees of the Supreme Council to consider a number of urgent drafts at their meetings, to prepare them for consideration in the session room, and to consider planning their further legislative activities, the proposal, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Rules, to make changes to the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the Supreme Council on Wednesday, September 7, for the work of the national deputies full - time committees. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote who supports this proposal, please. [[13:42:36]] For 186 There is no such position, no mood to work on committees. I'm very counting, colleagues, that tomorrow, in the same warehouse, everyone will be sitting in the hall. And since tomorrow, I've promised to publish in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" those MPs who aren't at the meetings that sometimes tell where the Supreme Council head hangs out, but in the key defense bills, they don't have them in the hall, as the wind blows, they sit on the press and on the air. We will publish them all in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is about the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Respectful colleagues, a challenging question, have raised many warnings and objections. Now we're going to have a discussion, we're going to be discussing it, even though it's kind of unforeseeable by procedure. So what is the dilemma? We have the requirements of the Rules for all the bills that have been given a positive opinion by the Committee to enter into the agenda of the day session automatically. But we also have bills that get the negative conclusion of the committee, and there's a question mark. We have bills that haven't considered committees for a long time, and that's also a dilemma, and that's also a challenge, how to deal with it. That is why we need to be able to discuss the matter, for only by joint decisions will we be able to form the order of the day - to - day fifth session. And I would ask the factions to speak and express their thoughts before we go to the polls. On the other hand, the apparatus prepared a full list of bills: separately, who received a positive conclusion, separately, those who received a negative conclusion, separately, those who had no conclusion. In addition, there is a separate supplement to all the proposals that have been made by factions and groups. But if we are to make a consolidated decision, we need to talk about it. Colleagues, I'm asking for factions. First, let's talk about what we're going to do in the short term. We've got 15 minutes till recess. And I would like to support the consideration of this decision by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. [[13:45:31]] For-189 Decision taken. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u94	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. After reviewing this list of bills, I did not find 1634 – a law on miners, a second reading. It is a very big request to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u95	Thank you. The Radical Party noted Yuszkov Tetjana Leonidivna. Please. Put it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u96	Okay. Please give the word to the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, the Radical Party faction insists that parliament should first and foremost consider bills aimed at radically increasing the income of Ukrainian citizens, overcoming unemployment, and protecting Ukrainians, particularly against the tariff genocide. We insist that Bill 4998 be considered in the first order, which foresees the establishment of pensions at the minimum of living for half a million Ukrainian pensioners who today receive less than a thousand dollars, and this pension is not indexed. We insist that, in the first order, laws be considered that will allow the price of gas to be recalculated, which will result in the reduction of dragon tariffs for residential services. We insist on a first-line review of draft laws that will allow for the cost of medicines. The vast majority of pensioners today are deprived of the ability to buy drugs and enter pharmacies like museums because they cannot buy drugs on their own copies of their pensions. As a result, Ukraine now holds second place in the world to the level of mortality, including cardiovascular disease. A number of bills registered by the Radical Party aimed at supporting and developing a national producer to support an agricultural producer. Today we have fewer than 2 million cows in Ukraine. After Hitler, there were 4.5 million. Today, less than 2 million. We can't find cows in the village today. And when they talk about selling land, give cows cheap hay, give milk at a normal price to peasants, and there will be no need to sell land and peasants around the world with an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u99	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u100	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, I have been thoroughly familiar with the list of bills proposed for the day’s session and I would like to say the following. First of all, I'm surprised that we're already putting drafts ahead of time on which parliament is going to vote, and on which Parliament is not going to vote. I believe that all the bills prepared by the people's deputies should be included in the agenda of the day session, as has always been the case. And only the Parliamentary Hall can determine which bills are supported and which bills will not be supported. That's why I'm proposing that we take a decision, and for such a ruling, Fatherland will vote that all the bills currently registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are included in the agenda of the current session. And one more thing. Regarding Wednesday’s proposal to be a day’s work on committees throughout the day. Why the "Paternity" faction didn't vote in favour of this issue. We have a whole week each month, when every day the national deputies have to work professionally on the committees. So I don't know what else to do with a single committee day during the plenary week if the committees are still going through on Wednesday. So I think that the order of the day that is, it has to include all the bills, and Wednesday should be the day that we consider ratifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u101	Thank you. "Peter Prashenko's Block," Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I have two tasks: one from my Committee on Fuel and Energy and the second commission from the faction itself. Well, first of all, I was on the Conciliation Council yesterday to point out that Bill 4868, which had not been considered in the hall, was somehow rejected, despite the fact that the committee separately referred to the importance of the bill. Please note, 4868. The other one. We started looking at this whole list at the factions yesterday. Among the laws are many important. But other important bills did not fail. That's why we have this proposal for you. Today let's vote for the agenda for the week. And within a week, all factions, heads of factions and heads of committees will be able to work on the technical side of this list. There are many laws that have not yet been introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. What about "self-help"? Please. Romanova, please. Turn on the roman microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u104	We would like to add a very important bill to the agenda. There are a lot of authors from different factions, including Self-Help, 4649 about the access of relatives and loved ones to resuscitation. This project is supported by many social organizations. And we were very surprised when this bill didn't get into the agenda. Please add 4649.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u105	Thank you, colleagues. From the faction there was a performance. Please, Mr. Oleg, one minute. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u106	Mr. Head! Indeed, a good offer has just been made. If we take the order of the day per week, and we accept it, and we work, during this week, we agree on the nuances, for example, as 4649 laws. It is not clear why he did not show up. Just like the law on the budget declaration. We also need to consider it. Excuse me, both the declaration including, and the resolution, the budget resolution. And I think it's going to be quality, useful and productive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, there will be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council. Come into the hall. Let's do it while the MPs come in, from the non-factional Birds, one minute. And I'd like my colleagues to come into the hall. Please, Birdie, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no two important bills in the area of decentralization that we include in the agenda of the day. These include bills 4772 and 4773. And that's because the profile committee, first of all, recommended that it be accepted in the first reading and second of all, separately, I was checking with you, asking you to look at them on the first reading this week. In addition, 4772 is a bill, without which we cannot move forward in the process of uniting the territorial communities. So I'm very much asking you to add these bills to the list of bills that we're putting into the order of the day session, so that we have the opportunity to make decisions on Thursday and, in fact, to determine the hall for their future fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that no one is artificially dividing the bill into certain categories, Mr. John, there are just some categories where there is a committee decision, a single category where there is no committee decision, it's not a subjective division, it's just a defined information that is not considered by the committee. And the truth is that some of the initiatives are in the registration stage and are in the filing stage. And let's say we don't go to a negative vote, maybe we really do agree to that proposal, approve the weekly agenda and work through the week. Although we gave all the factions this list, if there are any further warnings that we could complete within a week. Colleagues, we accept this proposal, which was proposed by Peter Prashenko's Block and Self-Help, for us to work out, we've come up with a comprehensive decision on all drafts, and now, for a week, we're going to register the agenda. If, colleagues, this logic is accepted, then I will formulate this proposal and put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. To remind you, without a positive vote, we have no right under the Rules to begin consideration of any matter in the first reading, just second reading or ruling. And that's why we have to get a positive vote. I think it has to unite the entire room. And it is important for us to be able to start our work fully. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please take a close look at this vote. And I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 6-9. Anyone who supports this order of the day, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Vote, please support your colleagues. [[13:56:29]] For 197 197-yes. Ladies and gentlemen, please make other suggestions. Igor Greene, please, one minute. I'll give it to you. Please, Igor Green, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u110	Thank you. There was a proposal to vote now on the agenda for this week. And this week, in factions and committees, we're going to work out the agenda for the entire session. Now, let's get the day-to-day order fixed for this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u111	Please, John. Ivan Krulko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u112	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, once again, I would like to make a proposal to the Fatherland, which will unite the Hall. Let's do what Parliament traditionally did when it approved the agenda for the session. All the bills currently registered in the Supreme Council are included in the agenda of the day session. And then we don't have to break the hall and vote separately for the daytime schedule for the week. Why would you do that? The order of the day per week is set, and it will automatically work as soon as we vote on the decision that all the bills that are registered at this time will be included in the agenda of the day session. And then you get most of the votes in Parliament. I suggest you put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m0.u113	Dear Mr. John, I am actually putting forward a compromise proposal that has been sounded. In view of the fact that not all of the laws that the factions would like to see are in this list, it was actually suggested that the document be redrafted. Refine this document and give us time to include all the initiatives. So I thought it was a normal, pragmatic offer. To vote for a week to allow for a non-conflict agenda. I think it makes sense, I think it's the right thing to do, and I don't think everyone's just been able to vote. Especially as far as I know. Oleg, can we support this proposal? We can. I will, with your permission, put her to the vote again, a compromise proposal that has been made. And I'm asking for your support, colleagues. From Oleg Bérezück, head of the Self-Help faction, and from Igor Greeniv, head of the Peter Prashenko Faction. Dear colleagues, I'm once again offering the heads of factions to vote -- to establish the weekly agenda with a view to working out the agenda for the entire session. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote carefully. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:59:32]] For 225 Dear colleagues, we're not there yet, I see we're not there yet. One voice, I'm totally with everyone. Yeah, we didn't make it. Colleagues, please, at the time of your decision to be in your seats. Colleagues, she doesn't need a vote back, I'll just put it to the vote again. Who supports the proposal to approve the weekly agenda, and during the week to harmonize the agenda for the entire session that supports the proposal, please vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:00:18]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we can start our work. I want to inform you, we have a number of regulations after lunch that are very important. In particular, the ruling that applies to the parliamentary hearings on Baba Jar is an international action that we should take. This is a decision to hold hearings on science and education. So what I'm asking is, at 4:00, we're all disciplined in the workplace and continue our work. It's 2:00. According to the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4 p.m., I ask all the national deputies to be in the workplace to continue our work. Thank you.
