ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We can start our work. People's deputies please come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It may be different with April 1, 2014, but on April 1, 2014, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the concept of reform of local self-government for two years. And in fact, today we already have the results of this reform when local budgets have 40 percent or more of their own revenue, an increase in their own revenue. United territorial communities have begun to form in Ukraine, and they have become capable. We have delegated from central authority many powers related to the registration of business, property, and the provision of administrative services. In fact, the local councils today have been given the right to approve their own budgets without waiting for the country’s budget, which is also extremely important, and can provide for medium-term budgeting and therefore for the development of areas. But I think it's all the same that it's just the beginning. I want to announce one more thing that we have to do with you. People's deputies are now registering the initiative, which is associated with the holdingokadastrom, the profiling committee, and the initiative is as follows. We have with you to make a decision literally in the coming weeks, I am convinced that this must be done, and to transfer to the property of the land that is located, or all the land that is outside the settlements of the united territorial communities to the property of the united territorial communities. We have to do this with you literally in the next few weeks. And where communities have not been united, for the time being, to give them this land to rule. So the local village councils have to manage this land without any officials or administrations. And this law needs support in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that as soon as the registration by the members of this law is complete, we will work together to adopt this law very quickly. And that's going to mean another step in decentralization. We will transfer the land beyond populated areas to the administration and administration of united communities and communities that have not yet been united. I think this will be an important step too. In general, I would like to point out that yesterday we worked hard enough with you, we've taken a number of important questions, especially, I think a very positive step -- we supported the Ukrainian miners with you, for many months they went looking for solutions, but I think, thanks to the Ukrainian people's deputies, we found this way out of this situation. I think we'll be able to build the 10th Novovolinsky mine last year. I think it's going to work in fourteen months, from the fall, maybe it'll do that and put a dot on this. Important decisions have been made in the IT sphere. Now, practically everyone understands what to do next in order to reform this sector. And they supported farming, which is also very important. The financial and economic day, we'll consider, has gone well enough, so we have to move on. Work needs to be done. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. We have a "hour of questions to the government" according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please turn on the "Council" system for registration, we'll register. Please. [[10:04:53]] 309 national deputies registered in the Supreme Council Hall I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the procedure for dealing with the question of "Years of Questions to the Government", I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the speech of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Culture of Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kyrelenka, 15 minutes' regulation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of Parliament, honourable citizens! I have a few questions from the MPs, just six questions. First question. "What innovations are in the Ukrainian culture development strategy? And is the resources provided by the National Culture Programme?" On February 1st of this year, the government's decision adopted the Long-term Strategy for Cultural Development (Tierre) – a reform strategy that is a sufficiently comprehensive document that has been discussed over almost the past year, has been discussed several times on round tables and with the public, and has, in fact, been published on the official website of the Ministry of Culture for public discussion. After all these procedures on February 1, this year, it was finally approved. This is an extensive document. But, if briefly, based on the issue of deregulation, democratization and ensuring equal access for all cultural institutions to financial resources. These are complex issues because, especially the issue of equal access to financial resources, there is a whole range of government and parliamentary decisions to be implemented. In any case, those resources that are allocated, including under the Law on the State Budget for Culture, should be available for distribution and adoption by institutions of different forms of property, independent artists, curators, state and municipal cultural institutions, and it is necessary to create additional mechanisms of competition and ensure this equal access. I want to say that this year Parliament has passed a new law, and this is a real reform in the field of culture, a mandatory competition and a contract that brings all cultural leaders to the competition, endures this competition and then receives a mandatory contract for five years. This will certainly contribute to the democratization of the governance of cultural institutions, because at the central level we have spent more than a year, and to the law, the appointment of leaders on competitive principles. At the local level, there are cultural leaders at the district level who are in one management position for 30 and 40 years and can't change or move or reform these cultural institutions and working styles. Now they will all be subject to competitive procedures. The question of support for national culture comes up from time to time in the Plenary Hall. Of course, the budget has been increased over the past five and a half years, by the Ministry of Culture. And when I came to this job after your decision, the budget of the Ministry of Culture was going to be 600 million dollars, and now culture is getting funding of 2 billion 600 million dollars. But culture can only be supported by introducing special fiscal incentives, which is a question of individual conversation and partly these incentives are, but only for books and cinematography; or by setting a constant percentage of expenditure on culture or its sector, direction, spheres from the general fund of the state budget. And this approach is proposed in the new Act on State Support for Cinematography, which is approved by you after our joint work on the first reading. Or maybe it's an increase in funding because of a fixed deduction from certain taxes or congregations, let's say from excise duties, or maybe in the case of legalization of part of the revenue from the gaming business. And this is also possible because of the adoption of a new approach, through the law on mecenata activity and the increase in funds that entrepreneurs can spend on cultural activities. Plus a grant of support and European support: Parliament ratified the Government's "Creative Europe" Treaty, which is an additional financial opportunity. The second question. "Are new legislation on strengthening the protection of national cultural heritage and the protection of museum meetings being developed?" Yes, there is the Law on Amendments to the Law on Museums and Museums, it foresees a lot of innovations, I will not stop at them in detail, because we will present this bill on the profile committee. But the new Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage has already been publicly presented to the government and the public. I've been in the government since last year to present the concept of this law, this is, I think, the most complex area that is under the Ministry of Culture, since it's about protecting cultural heritage, forgetful regimes, restoration regimes, intervention regimes in historic urban areas, intervention in security zones and buffer zones of objects, reserves and UNESCO. And so this bill, which is now, now published in the final working language on the website of the Ministry of Culture, is going to provide for a deregulation of the substance. We're going to reduce all the permits and consent in this area by 70 percent, it's going to predict decentralization, because the left-hand side of what's left, the agreed permits, we're going to put it in place, and we're just going to leave it at the center of the regulatory measures that apply to UNESCO's national reserves and objects. We're legally creating an electronic register, we're clearly minimizing any contact between a client, a contractor, a restorer and an official, because all documents are being translated into electronic form and it will ultimately kill all the abuses that may otherwise be in this sphere, and this is the same area of acceptance of historical and urban grounds, it's a very sensitive sphere and there's always a lot of conflict around it. We've covered up all the abuses in this direction during my cadence, but in fact I'll tell you what happens in manual mode, including, we're even forced not to respond to some presumptuously unjusticeable, judicial decisions by the Ministry that the Ministry undertakes to agree to knowingly illegal historical and urban grounds, in parallel to the law enforcement agencies, we do. Because all of these candles, which arose in the center of Kiev and other historic cities in Ukraine, resulted from the fact that there is a mass of splinter in the current law on the protection of cultural heritage. And it's like it's spelled right, but you can go around this law, and as a result, it's the walls that stain, distort the historical areas of cities, especially the city of Kiev. So I'm going to ask for the support of the MP's corps so that this bill is supported in Parliament after we've finally considered it and approved it at a government meeting. Next question, number 3. "What measures are being taken to ensure that objects of cultural heritage and objects of the state part of the National Museum Fund are preserved by UNESCO in Crimea and Sevastopol?" This issue is extremely important, painful, and it is clear that no authority in Ukraine can properly control the situation in the area of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Regrettably, the Ministry of Culture cannot know exactly what is happening with the preservation of museum values, including the Ministry of Culture. And this is where we think it's going to require the activation of special bodies and intelligence and counterintelligence, so that we can get feedback and react in international structures. I can report that as of January 1, 2014, the number of items of the core fund held at the Crimea Museums amounted to 925 thousand 916 units of storage, the core fund. And in the city of Sevastopol, 321 thousand 444 units of the main foundation, units of storage. That is, for a million items of the State Museum, only the main are temporarily occupied, temporarily occupied Crimea, and only the facts of the illegal movement of these values appear, the Ministry of Culture strongly responds to such facts through the UNESCO mechanism, through other international mechanisms that we own. Suppose, in recent times, there have been two official appeals by the Ministry of Culture to international institutions and UNESCO. First, regarding the illegal entry into the Federal Reserve of the Hersones Tavrish Reserve, Russia has placed this monument in its federal register, even though it is in all its decisions, and UNESCO is recognized as a monument to a culture belonging to the Ukrainian State and is not recognized as any manipulation of the Russian occupation with it. Similarly, we have responded to the partial destruction of one of the objects on the previous UNESCO list. This is Tower No. 19 of the Genoa Fortress, which was partially destroyed by the fact that the invaders do not pay any attention to the preservation of the cultural heritage in the temporarily occupied Crimea. And this fact has also become the subject of the Ministry of Culture's appeal to UNESCO. Together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are working on this topic to prevent any illegal manipulation of Ukrainian cultural heritage in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. However, it is worth noting that Minculture stresses that there is a great need to negotiate with representatives of foreign governments in order to stop any international interaction with those Russian museums that they take to preserve or exhibit items of the museum fund from reserves and museums that are located in Crimea and are Ukrainian property. With such Russian museums, the international community must stop any cooperation because any movement of cultural values in Crimea territory is illegal. This is also confirmed by the decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations Crimea. In addition, the Ministry of Culture has developed amendments to the Act on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine to strengthen the mechanism for protecting cultural heritage in the occupied areas of Crimea. And for this reason, we have made changes to several articles of this law. In the near future, we will bring him into Parliament. Question four: "What measures are being taken to limit the spread in Ukraine of Russian-speaking publishing products?" Well, let me tell you, we don't limit Russian-speaking publishing. We have a democracy in the country, but obviously it's a Russian book that keeps rolling through the Ukrainian border, it's official, it's going into cheese, and it's going into black. There are several initiatives, including a total ban on importing Russian books. There were several round tables. This is a complex subject, not everything in it, because there are fears that both necessary and politically neutral scientific publications can automatically fall under this ban. So we have another mechanism in common with the Statecomteleradio, which is also supported by a large part of the publishers, for the introduction of so-called automatic licensing. This is when a book of Russian publishing is published across the border, where national hostility, failure to recognize Ukraine’s sovereignty or territorial integrity, such production is arrested, sanctions are imposed on publication, and such publishing will no longer be able to expand its production in Ukraine. A well - known list of Russian publications that allow such things is published by anti - Ukrainian propagandist literature and are trying to lead it even to bookstore shelves. In such a case, it will be necessary to amend the legislation in order to provide the necessary functions of State control of the State, the Customs, the Security Service and other interested ministries, and to ensure that all books, brochures and publications of Russian origin, which are not recognized by the Ukrainian State Sovereignty and fuel national hostility, are fully removed. Practically, these draft decisions are already in place. We're going to have one more discussion and we're going to make decisions and make suggestions. Fifth question. "What steps are being taken by Minculture to prepare for the 75th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy?" I would like to inform you, honourable Members of Parliament, that in the last three months there have been four large meetings of the organ committee to prepare for the 75th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar. And the organ committee is led and conducted by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk and Presidential Director Boris Lozkin. There have been discussions, sometimes so inflamed, but we first approved the plan of action for the government as early as 30 December last year, it is all foreseen, but the discussion was about the main issue, how we finally for the first time in 25 years of our new independence to implement the initiative to build the League of Martyrs and the Alley of the Righteous in Babin Jar's historic memorial. And this is the first time in 25 years that a consolidated decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u3	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u4	Finally, a decision of a consolidated nature at the level of all the members of the Orgcomite to begin the construction of the Martyr and Righteous Aleija was invented, the funds for this, the appropriate government decision had been adopted on March 25th and by September 29th, when great celebrations were planned with the participation of the leaders of many foreign countries, would be put into operation by these two small alleys, but these would be the first time in 25 years that would indicate the magnitude of the Holocaust tragedy, on the scale of the tragedy of Baba Jar, which occurred in Kiev in 1941, and this would be the first time in 25 years of updating this memorial. We've made all the necessary government decisions, we've now agreed on project documentation, then we'll start building these alleys. In addition, decisions have been made to restore all the valid monuments in Babay Yara and the UN activists who have died, also shot in Baba Jara and the Roma people and prisoners of war, and all those who have fallen victim to the Fascist occupation and died in Babay Yara territory. And one last question. "What does the government do to honor the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 and to secure the activities of the Museum of the Dignity Revolution?" On November 18, the government adopted a decision to create a memorial complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, the Museum of Dignity, and then some changes were even made before that decision. We have foreseen 5 million dollars in the budget this year, and you have supported this in the West of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory and in the creation of the Museum of the Dignity Revolution. We have not been able to directly finance this facility from the state budget so far, because this can only be done if the institution has national status. On March 25, the government approved a draft Presidential Decree granting the status of the National Museum of the Dignity Revolution. I think the president will be signing an order soon. And these funds will go to create a Museum of the Dignity Revolution and all the necessary organizational arrangements. Let us report that the question of the location of the Museum of the Dignity Revolution remains unresolved. A year ago, Prime Minister Yatsenuk was commissioned and a corresponding bill was put into this room to house the so - called Yellow Palace at the Museum of Dignity. However, this bill, and I think it's a very good idea, and by the way, the Yellow Palace is the only house that is located and has the address of the Heros of the Heavenly 100th Street, the Heros of the Celestial 100th Street, 1. But Parliament did not support this initiative, and now the issue is blocked, for the Ukrainian House disagrees with the request of the Nazpamatima Institute to provide its premises for a variety of purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u5	One more minute, please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. But we're going to continue the general period of "the hour of questions to the government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u6	There is still no way to place part of the exposure, more precisely the exposure in part of the premises of the Ukrainian house. Although there is a reference to the Institute of National Memory, Minculture supports this proposal. Well, there's not a solved question on the construction site of the Hero's Heavenly 100th Avenue, 3 Tires. This is where a new Memorial of Dignity and the Museum of the Dignity Revolution is to be built. The area under trial, and I personally have great doubts that it will be possible to build a new museum in the near future. That's why we need to continue and determine: either we're putting a museum in the Ukrainian house or we're going back to putting it in the area of the Yellow Palace, where the events of the Dignity Revolution were happening. Thank you for your attention. The answer to the question was finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u7	Thank you, Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich, for the thorough report. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Mr. Rusnak Ivan Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u8	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Questions came to the Ministry of Defence from the MP factions. Let me give you some information about the state of execution in the defense department. To comply with the President’s decree on demobilization of 25 March of this year, 45,000 military personnel are scheduled to be released from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. Of them, the Armed Forces, 42,000, and other military formations, 3,000. By this time 6,000 were released, the rest is scheduled to be released by the end of April of this year. All released will be provided with all financial benefits and clothing during the season, that is, winter. In what way does the Ministry of Defence plan to meet the needs of military forces in a special capacity? Today, the main way to regroup military units is to engage them in contractual military service, including Ukrainian citizens through military commissions after training in training centres and military educational institutions. As well as members of the military, who are appointed and served for the mobilization and military service, they are immediately after signing their contract and leaving them in the military areas where they are serving. Yes, since the beginning of 2016, 18,000 people have been taken into the Armed Forces by contract. Including the 13,000 military commissioners, 4,000 of them military mobile personnel, 700 of them military service personnel. This work is ongoing. And we expect about 8,000 more military personnel to sign the contract in April. First of all, military units are assembled to carry out tasks in the ATO area. They are directed by candidates who have combat experience and the experience of previous military service. At the same time, with the aim of ensuring that military personnel and the replacement of military personnel to be released, the General Staff of the Armed Forces have made appropriate calculations and the possibility of carrying out a seventh round of partial mobilization in reduced volumes is not excluded. The beginning will be determined by the appropriate decree of the President of Ukraine at the time of submission of the General Staff. In addition, pursuant to the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 29 March of this year, in May-June and October-November, citizens are scheduled to be released and drafted for military service. At this time, the General Staff completes the calculations. I want to inform you that in the 15th year, we called 19,000 people to the Armed Forces, to the National Guard -- 9,851 people, to the State Special Transport Service -- 2,000 people, that is, 30932 people. I would like to point out that all the appointed military personnel will undergo appropriate general government training. To this end, the General Staff has restored the activities of two training centres, involving 7 train stations, which enable the preparation of several tens of thousands of military personnel at the same time. Thus, the Ministry of Defence plans to fully meet the needs of the military forces in a special capacity, without diminishing their resilience. Next question. "The state of housing for military personnel in the 15th year." Ladies and gentlemen, in the 15th year, a budget of 869 million dollars was allocated to the Ministry of Defence for housing for military personnel and family members. The specified resource allowed you to obtain 1,331 apartments. At the same time, we made purchases on the secondary market, partially funded 497 apartments that would enter the Minobran in the middle of the year. A sum of more than 100 million dollars was paid for the proper accommodations received, benefiting 231 families. As a charity, 38 apartments were received, 22 apartments were used for their own construction, and 16 apartments were obtained under investment contracts. So in 2015 we solved the housing issue for 889 families of military and military personnel in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It should be noted that in 2015 186 participants in an anti-terror operation were provided with housing. In addition, there are 161 families in the Army who are on the home count. Military personnel who died in the process of the ATO. In 2015, 94 families of this category were provided with housing from various sources. Regarding 2016. The total financial resource is 681.3 million dollars. We're going to buy, acquire, upgrade and hand over 1,000 329 apartments to the military. In addition, 22 million are provided to pay off families who are willing to receive financial compensation for adequate housing. With regard to renting homes for military personnel, the total financial resource is 268.6 million dollars. This will enable the payment of cash compensation to 11,000 families of military personnel. Next question. "What is the condition of providing goods for military personnel, particularly those carrying out tasks in the area of anti-terrorist operations?" Ladies and gentlemen, the level of funding in 2015 totalling 3 billion 49 million has allowed the Armed Forces to provide 100 percent of the basic assets of the field. The information is shown on the screen. This includes 100 percent of the ATO’s military units. In addition, the necessary reserves of field uniforms and shoes have been created to ensure the assembly of the Armed Forces — contracted military personnel; the recruitment for term services; the replacement of uniforms and shoes that have been used for fixed operating periods. In 2015, some 60 companies in the national economy and private enterprises were involved in the supply of goods for the needs of the Armed Forces. In accordance with the procurement procedures carried out on 1 April 2016, contracts for the supply of goods are planned — these are suits for the field, furskins, shirts, hats, tents, washing machines. The information is also displayed on the screen. This introduces 30 NATO standards, including those for items, their construction, fire protection, ballistic protection, and so on. It should be noted that the cost of a single combat kit of uniforms, shoes, equipment, and personal protection for one military officer for today amounts to about 35,000 dollars. Dear National Deputies! In 2016, a resource of 2,000 is allocated for the provision of items. Two billion 61 million dollars. Planned funds will enable military personnel to provide basic items of clothing, equipment, and protective equipment — armor, helmets, and protective helmets. At the same time, 100 percent of the military personnel involved in the antiterrorist operation are made available. It's a problem. I would like to point out that as a result of an analysis of price policy in the service market, as a result of a substantial increase in the cost of raw materials, the price of items has increased several times. And we're also showing information on the slide. In view of the stated and partial replenishment of unbreakable stocks, the Ministry of Defence needs to allocate an additional funding of 950 million dollars, and we are counting on the support of the government and the Supreme Council. The designated resource will allow the creation of supplies and the provision of approximately 80,000 military personnel with the necessary items and equipment. And about question four. "Announced the optimisation of the state structure of the Ministry of Defence and the reathensation of the Ministry of Defence. How will it go?" Honourable national MPs, defence reform in line with Euro-Atlantic standards, have been referred to as key priorities of foreign and domestic policy. To implement the decision of the President of Ukraine during 2014-2015, we carried out a comprehensive review of the security and defence sector, which resulted in the preparation of the main strategic defence planning documents, the national security strategy, the military doctrine of Ukraine, the concept of the development of the security and defence sector. We are finalizing the development of a strategic defence bulletin, road maps of defence reform. These defence planning documents are the basis for the development of programming documents for the reform of the components of the security and defence sector, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The main objective of defence reform is to acquire the Ministry of Defence with the Armed Forces the ability to respond effectively to threats in the military and to maximize compatibility with the NATO Armed Forces through the achievement of Euro-Atlantic standards. What do we expect from the results of the reform? The management system, the logistics system, the combat training system, increased levels of military management, delegated authority and greater autonomy to the managers of structural units, optimized social benefits and guarantees. One key element of updating the management system is to improve the organizational structure of the Ministry of Defence itself. On 30 March of this year, the Minister of Defense clearly defined the criteria for reforming defence intelligence and for preventing lower levels of efficiency, and for monitoring the activities of the Armed Forces. To ensure the transparency of this process, a committee of reforms has been set up in the Ministry of Defence, to which we have invited national deputies, representatives of state authorities, volunteers, foreign advisers. Yesterday a second meeting of the committee was held to discuss the issue of how to ensure that organizational action is carried out during 2016. At the same time, the Minister of Defense signed an organizational directive during the session, which is the basis for structural reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence, and foresees both a reduction in the number of central apparatus and a reduction in the number of structural units. Notice: there will be no mechanical release of the individual composition, the decision on release will be made by the work of the committees created on professional quality assessment and strict compliance with labour legislation. I'd like to point out that the liberated personal composition of the apparatus will be directed at strengthening the audit departments, the financial, the legal. There is also the possibility of employment in military educational institutions and research institutions. Most of the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence reform will be carried out in 2016, by the end of 2018 all the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence reform will be completed, and by the end of 2020 the reform of the Armed Forces in general. In this way, the process of reforming the Ministry of Defence will be carried out in regulated laws and other legal acts of the field, will become transparent to the public, and will prevent the effectiveness of the Ministry as the central executive body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've heard reports from government officials, we're about to have an oral recording, two minutes for him. I ask the Self-Help faction to concentrate, mobilize to get into the list. I ask all deputies who are planning to ask the government a question to prepare for the record. The ministers are with us. Ready, Yegor? I request that you record the questions of the National Deputies to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, please record. There's self-help. [[B in m in s a l in]] Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u10	Give your word to others. Next, next. Cooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u11	Next. Cooge. Alexandra Kugel, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u12	I want to speak to Mr. Zubko if there is no Prime Minister. A great request, Mr. Hennadia. You remember the government’s decision to set a standard of gas consumption for the population, where the government’s decision was very reasonable: You reduced it according to the actual standards of expertise. The heat, the season, most of it, and the monopolies decided through the court, the individuals, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Energy didn't stand firm for the government, and now the monopolies have recalculated, returned the consumption standards. And all the citizens of Ukraine, the monopolies put their bills on the table. The pensioners were paid between 300 and 500 dollars to pay the difference. At this time, I know the position of the government has not changed that these standards are too high, but the decision is not made. And that's why I'm asking the government to take this to the control and next week to give information to the population, how to deal with the monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u13	Turn on Mr. Hennadia's microphone for an answer, Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been canceled and the decision has been set to set an excessive standard of consumption of gas, and another decision is being drawn up. and agrees with the Ministry to redefine it at the level at which we made the decision and the decision that was overturned through the court. Thank you for your attention. And we're going to accelerate this process with Minvalvenergo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u15	Onufrik Bogdan Semenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Yesterday, the central media released information about the deputy chief of the National Police Department of the Montenegrin district of Vladimir Maibors. The material says that in the spring of 2014, he actively cooperated with and supported the so - called national militia of Paul Gubarev. Well, in the published material, there are photos and videos that confirm that. I'd like to ask the Minister and the Ministry. Who was lobbying for the appointment of Vladimir Maiboros, who worked as head of the Volnowsky militia in the spring of 2014? Who was lobbying for his assignment in the Chernivite region? And how the Ministry will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u17	Is the government ready to give a responsible answer? The government recommends that the question be referred as a parliamentary request so that the situation can be officially resolved and given a solid answer. Skuratovsky Sergey gives the word to the leader of the Radical Party Oleg Láska Oleg Lášk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for government officials. First. We're asking about the cancellation of pension taxes, because we don't see any income in the budget, there's only one and a half billion dollars there, rather than a great social injustice, when pensioners get out of retirement, especially when there's a penny pension. That's why I'm addressing the minister of social policy, Paul Rosenk, and hopefully he'll work in the next government to explain the issue of when you cancel your pension tax. That's the first one. The second question. As for the cost of housing services, the question to Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. How many parasites will you choose? How much are you going to charge? How much do you need to raise the price of gas? So today the price of 7,200 gas, you're going to raise another 70 percent. How many people do you want to skin to finally cover the Naftogazu deficit and solve these problems? But why on account of that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u19	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to say that it's certainly not a simple question and you know what it's related to this issue of pension taxation. But I can say that within what we have the possibility and I personally have the ability to do, by increasing the subsistence minimum, we are now subtracting from, essentially, the taxation of pensions by indirect means the actual number of people. If the pension was taxed last year. Taxed at the limit of 3,000, 600 and above, it's now 4,000, 200. So we're going to be doing a lot of people like this and, as you know, from May 1st we're going to be raising the minimum of living, and from December of the month we're also going to be working on this issue. But here's the main thing in another to ensure the normal income of the U.K. Pension Fund, which is possible when the economy works. The economy is going to work -- there's going to be the income of the Pension Fund, believe me, then the issue of abolishing pension taxes will be eliminated, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u20	Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you for your appointment, because I have heard of the people's deputies, the cattle, the government, the parasites. But on the other hand, I would like to say that today there are 5 and a half million households that are receiving a subsidy. These are the people who have 2-3 people in their families, which means that 15 million Ukrainian citizens today get a grant that's completely protected from any tariffs they can't pay. All the other people who today have the opportunity to pay that tariff rate that the state has to pay. And that's why I want populism to be divided into two things. First of all, we clearly understand that 14 million citizens in which you can ask today, and they'll tell you frankly that this year they're more protected than they were in the past. And secondly, the people who are putting on Facebook a rental apartment today, and I can show it to you, I'll put it on Facebook today, where there's comfortable facilities, where there's enough, so to speak, expensive furniture. But on the other hand, the announcement contains a very low salary, 200 dollars, a grant. So I would like to make things very simple in our country: those people who don't have opportunities are protected; those who have to pay have to pay for housing services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u22	Thank you. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u24	Ostrikovi's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u25	I said Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u26	Good afternoon. I have a question with the minister of finance, who does not respect Parliament and the entire Ukrainian people so much that he has not even appeared in the Hall today. On September 17 you were signed and sent a letter to Eurocomisisar Khan, offering him a scheme to use 90 million euros to establish an integrated tax system. Obviously, this is ASYCUDA, which is distributed completely free of charge. In addition, in the year 8/09/15, Decree No. 697 81 million dollars was allocated to the DFS for further development of the electronic customs system. I have a question: where did the money go? You pick up retirees with pensions, you lower your salary budget because of low indexation. Please report on what 90 million euros have been spent, on a free distribution programme, and what has been done since the introduction of the Electronic Customs, which we still have, and you're still 81 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u27	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u28	And you're going to be able to refocus 81 million dollars from the European Union's help on what's still working in Ukraine. In 2016, the minister of finance was going to reform customs. Report on what was done in the first quarter in the direction of customs policy reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u29	Dear Mrs. Tetiano, the funds that the European Union has not signed or come in question. Thus, no funds have been stolen and will be used according to, transparently, tender purchases. Regarding the allocation of funds for customs software, there is indeed a major human factor problem. And so the funds that are being allocated are being set aside to automate the processes and take away the human factor. Thank you. Yeah, and the minister's here, she's out, she's coming back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u30	When she returns to the podium, we will ask and answer your current and important question. Martovitch Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u31	National MP Martovicki, 36 constituency. Please give the floor to Deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u32	I have a question for the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Ukrainian Parliament passed a very important bill, which will allow for any regulation of uncontrolled removals from the country in the form of metallurgy and additional income to be included in the budget. And there is a court decision by which the Ministry of Economics expressly prohibits the issue from giving export quotas. The Ministry of Economics, in fact ignoring the court's decision, continues to issue export quotas. Uncontrolled exports of scrap metal continue. And the budget doesn't get the necessary revenue. How did this happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Yes, indeed, a bill was voted yesterday that introduces a bribe to export to scrap metal. However, as of today, the Ministry of Economics has held two sessions of the commission since the beginning of the year, where the Ministry of Economics has reviewed all applications for the registration of contracts for the export of scrap metal. And that court decision you're talking about actually only canceled the planned balance between the confirmation of the coming and the use of metallurgy in the country. The Court’s decision did not oblige the Ministry of Economics not to register contracts, as provided for by valid legislation. We support yesterday's bill, and we think that this is the regulation that was proposed by the people's deputies, it's actually going to allow us to export metal scrap from quota to a transparent mechanism, and it's going to give us extra money from the budget. However, on the other hand, if the export of scrap metal was completely banned today, the budget would also be underexpenditureded by, among other things, foreign exchange and expert currency arrivals to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u34	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u35	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I have a question for the minister of the agro-industrial complex. Do you know that there are unknown "green men" in the Croatian Milk Conservative in the Poltava region who have seized the factory, cut out the equipment? All of this is in the interests of the Russian Orthodox oligarch Constantna Malofeyeva. Do you know and what measures are being taken by the Ministry to make the enterprise the property of the labor group? And the second question to the Minister of Internal Affairs. When finally he will be relieved of his position as Head of the National Police of the Plains Region of Maximov, Ubepa’s head of the district of Efthenia, who have failed to re-test and who are in the middle of illegal amber production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u36	Okay. Thank you for asking. I don't know about the Horol factory and the excitement, but I do know a situation that has happened recently, you know, we have agro-funds in Borispol "green men" of our sugar stores. I am very grateful to the law enforcement agencies, who intervened in the situation in a timely manner and brought out the armed men, took the machines away and so forth. So if you have information, please urgently also contact the law enforcement authorities, the BPO, and so on. all illegal acts must be completed accordingly. The other one. You know, MinAPC has officially stated that we are ready for all the businesses that are in our sphere to be transferred to the Despair Holding Fund, because the collective, you know, has been waiting for a long time. Where the earth is, the earth must be scattered and passed on to people. People have been waiting for this for 24 years, almost 100,000 people all over the country. So we will continue to insist on our position. I would like, if possible, to thank the people's deputies who have taken an active part in recent weeks, the last months of the referendum that will take place on this issue, in principle, in the next week in the Netherlands for their association with the European Union, because there have been very active meetings. I think we're moving in the right direction. So, personally, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u37	Thank you. The sound of Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u39	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Viachelav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, I represent the Nižin constituency and, in particular, the city leadership, and the community of Nižina has been working for more than 20 years to create the State History and Architecture Reserve of Ancient Nižin. In particular, a complete package of documents has already been prepared. It provides for a complex of measures to protect and restore the historic part of the city, create additional museums, develop historical routes, and so forth. The question is now locked at the Kabmin level or your ministry. A year ago, I was giving a few MPs a speech on this matter. So I'm paying attention to the solution to this question and let's work together, we're going to bring this to a logical conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u40	Thank you for that question, dear colleague. I know about your references, I work with them, and we'll create all the necessary facilities at the bottom to properly honor Ninja. There are simply a few organizational and financial issues related to part of the responsibility that the local community should assume and part of the functions that the central authorities should perform. Once this process is functionally reduced to one, we're going to solve this issue. So thank you for the reminder and your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u41	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Matkowski. Is that right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone and tell who you're giving the word to. I can see who you're giving your word to. Now Matkowski will speak, and then we'll give the word to whom you're going to pass. Please, Matkovsky Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u42	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u43	Dear members of the government, I have questions for two vice-premiers. The first question to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko is whether this terrible fact is under the control of the Ministry of Culture, which took place in 2012, following the capture of the Museum of the Triple Culture by Alexander Polishchuk. In fact, the previous criminal authorities have taken all the historical treasures of the Triple culture and to this day, as far as I know, the treasures of the Triple culture, which belong to the Ukrainian people, which are about 8,000 years old, unreturned to both the collector and the Ukrainian history. As for the Separatism books that you've been talking about, go through all the churches, especially the monasteries of Moscow Patriarchate, and see what they're doing with the so-called "Novorosia" and the other books that stain the present Ukraine, these books are on the shelves of the Kiev-Pecher laurel, the Pochaiiv laur. Today. And whether the Ministry of Culture is going to bring back the Ukrainian tradition of the oldest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u44	Thank you for your question. In terms of the museum, the museum you're talking about was a private museum, in Tripoli two museums, one communal form of property, the other private museum, one founded by Alexander Polishchuk. There was a conflict inside the founding fathers, which led to a series of investigations. And now this conflict in the courts is not solved. We don't have the weights to interfere with this museum because it's a private institution. The other thing is, if we're asked for some expert evaluation of exhibits, if we're going to be approached by co-founders to exhibit a collection in some other museums, including our museums of state-owned property, we'd be happy to go to a meeting because I was at this museum, I know the Alexander Polishchuk collection. And until this conflict arose, of course, it was a brilliant museum right on the shore of Dniper, which attracted huge numbers of people, families with children came and so on. So we need to re-establish the museum and the Ministry of Culture within the competences ready to join. The other one. As far as Russian book products are concerned, I've reported this, there's an initiative to stop the movement at all across the border, it's not yet formed at all, because there's a lot of discussion going on. There is an initiative to introduce so - called automatic licensing when all books imported and imported in suitcases will be checked by the appropriate authorized authority in the case of relevant messages. Let's say it's a Derzcomteledio and a public special council with him, and they're going to be eliminated in a fixed order, regardless of which store, church, municipal, state or private. This will require the adoption of a series of changes to legislation. We're working on these changes right now, and we're going to ask you, MPs, to support this initiative. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u46	Please pass it on to Jephthah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u47	Good afternoon! Efimov Maxim, town of Kramatorsk Donetsk district. I have two questions. The first question is the tooth of Gennady. We would like to know that, for today, there is a programme under which, in terms of energy efficiency, there is a recovery of part of the body of the loan on the thermomodernization projects. On 18 March, we sent members from the Committee collectively to include energy service companies as participants in the programme, with the exception of OSMD and housing cooperatives. Unfortunately, until today, we have not received any answers, which would be an essential signal for development. For the use of this programme in thermo-modernization, including OSID. Question to Paul Rosenco, next question. The 2016 budget provides for $35 billion in grants and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u48	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u49	These subsidies do not include solid fuel subsidies. We have 15,000 households frozen in Kramatorsk this winter, cut off all landings, because the State compensates 2 tons of coal at the price of a thousand 500 grevens at the market value of 3.5 thousand and the need for one household 3.5-4 tons of coal. To date, this is absolutely not the case, the pinpong from the Ministry of Social Policy on Minenergo. Please make a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. In terms of energy efficiency and energy service companies, I'd like to explain a clear position on this. First of all, to be clear, compensation from the State has to be given to a specific consumer: either it's OSBB, or it's a direct individual developer. Energy service companies, I realize they have a very serious fund-raising problem right now to do this kind of work. In connection with the high interest rate on credit and therefore with the European Investment Bank, we work under a separate, long, cheap loan of energy service companies. But the logic is that the motivation and compensation of the body of the loan should not be given to an energy service company that earns the costs that it does and that gets the profits, but to the citizens of Ukraine who live either in OSB or in individual homes. So the question of the whole point of getting involved in the compensation of the body of the loan is that it becomes only in the area of Ukrainian citizens. The question of helping energy service companies with cheap resources, participation and the ability to work on the market is very serious. And literally yesterday we held a forum on creating an energy efficiency model. A fund that has to respond to very simple things: first of all, how does a state motivate people to invest money; how can a state channel the rest of the economy of subsidies to energy-efficient measures; how do we make transparent calculations in the middle of the market in order to export thermal utilities to an economically sound level. So I'm very much asking that group of national MPs who wrote the request to join in this work so that we can work together to decide how effectively the energy efficiency fund should work, in order to take into account all the practical interests and possibilities of this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u51	Thank you. Wolf Victor Ivanovich, please. Oh, just to finish the answer, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question for our fellow citizens who do not have the capacity to form a grant because they do. In principle, they do not use centralized heating or gas supply services. The question is extremely relevant in terms of the fact that we, as Minister of Social Policy, understand perfectly that for the amount that is allocated to every citizen as compensation for including subsidies, for gas and, well, actually use, it is impossible to buy normal, quality coal in sufficient quantity. We have repeatedly raised the issue of the need to increase the amount that is being allocated to people last year as a compensation for solid fuels subsidies. The Ministry of Social Policy has repeatedly initiated this issue. Because there's actually the cost of this program in the 35 billion there, but we do. We have always resisted the question that the price of this coal is not set by our body. But we, I'm sure, are now shaping a new price for 2016 for 2016, and we insist that the price that's being allocated, and that the amount that's being allocated to people is being increased at least twice as much. This will give us the opportunity, in my opinion, to spend the next heating season much better for that category of citizens than it is now. That's why we're here. We know that question, we're fighting for it, and our position here is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u53	Victor Wolf gives the floor to the question of Halasyuk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u54	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, questions. What is the government's plan to move from falling exports to rising exports? What measures are being taken today to ensure that Ukrainian motorists, other manufacturers, including Iran’s market? When will the sanctions on Iran be lifted on the Ukrainian side, the corresponding old Kabminu ruling be lifted? What is the situation with the establishment and financing of an export credit agency with regard to insurance and the cost-effective lending of export contracts, as virtually all countries around us do? What is the situation with regard to the quota view? Whether the government is planning to initiate a quota review under our agreement with the European Union, because today Ukrainian producers cannot sell at times even two percent of their production because these quotas are scarce, these quotas are inadequate, they need an immediate review. What is the overall plan to stimulate Ukrainian exports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for asking. I'm about to hand over Julia Kowalov for quotas and exports. But on the other hand, to be clear, for today's day, the government has been working in the last year and already this year, joint commissions that relate to increasing supply of our machine builders, as well as energy engineering. It's not just Iran, it's about Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan, and Azerbaijan, and other countries like our partners, and like Turkey, in order to be able to develop new markets and rebuild old ones, what's happening with Iran. The government delegation was in March, March 8, Iran, held a commission and, first, we resume the cooperation that was suspended for 11 years. Secondly, the commission consisted of virtually all representatives of state-owned enterprises who had contracts and who now have project documentation to modernize the energy capacities of the Islamic Republic of Iran. For us, it is very important now to abolish the 2007 sanctions order, to impose sanctions. But on the other hand, there's a political solution on this side, but we need to have stability and at the same level what's going on, so to speak, at the level of the UN Security Council, which was meeting a few days ago in Iran's situation. We need very much to ensure that our machine builders, when they come there with investments, can be protected from the point of view of the stability of the political situation. So, on the other hand, this question is being addressed, but we need to move forward with political will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u56	Thank you. And the last question is, we can ask one more question. Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Alona Babak. Aloni Babak's word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Question to Vice Prime Minister Zubko and Minister of Energy. Today, the most expensive utility is the heating service, which is because most of the heating costs are gas costs, and the state is subsidizing gas for thermal power companies. Please tell me when the plan of action will be real to support the production of heat from alternative sources of energy: biomass and household waste. Because today the producers of Ukrainian thermal energy who want to produce it from biomass and household waste can do nothing because they are not in equal conditions with the gas-efficient heat producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u59	Thank you, Alona Valerievna. You were in the forum yesterday, and you saw that today we have a concrete plan of action, what's related to both the modernization of TKE, and the energy efficiency fund, and also the issues that you raised -- alternative sources of energy. We need alternative sources of energy today, but the question of their ability to exist in parallel with the powers that exist today. If you know, alternative energy is being implemented on individual projects. These are either social objects or objects located in rural areas. Regrettably, the modernization that should take place in large - city enterprises today is linked to both the environment and the possibility of involving funds in such an upgrade. That's why it's important for us to predict, and we've foreseen it, in the National Energy Efficiency Plan, to introduce alternative energy sources into these existing capacities. But on the other hand, we realize that today it takes a very difficult and very large amount of money to do so. So please suggest as national deputies the solution to this problem, as you can see. And let's make decisions together, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Hennaday. And on that "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, thank the government. And to new meetings, respectable government officials. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we're here. We've been blocked. We were asked by two factions, Self-Help and Fatherland, to announce a recess for consultations on the agenda. But two factions are ready to replace a half - hour break with one flaming talk from the rostrum. Please, who's going to perform? Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We, as representatives of the Interfractional Union of Eurooptimists, at the moment, and other MPs, have come under pressure, with unprecedented pressure and political manipulation because of our position under Bill 4057, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading. Those who, under the beautiful righteous slogans and expectations of the people, promote this bill in the Supreme Council have no legal arguments. So a dirty discredit campaign has begun against both the Eurooptimist interfractional union and the individual members of our union. We realize that there will be a total increase in this information pressure ahead. We know that additional publications are being prepared. And that's just using low-test technology. Our arguments for the changes that were made during the first reading, which were reinforced by the European Union, which were supported by really professionals from the Department of Criminal Law and Criminology of the National University of our name Taras Shevchenk, and supported by, by the way, all of you here in the hall are hampering the actual implementation of the largest raid scheme in the history of Ukraine. The game and the cover-up of Midan's ideals, as well as the fight for stolen property, and the fight for the stolen assets of Yanukovich poses a great threat to the protection of property in general and creates a powerful car for the taking of property. Without a trial and an investigation into property ownership, it is contrary not only to common sense but to all European law and European standards. We have already seen the official position of the Representation of the European Union on this subject with numerous remarks to this bill. This bill contains. It is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the UN Convention against Corruption, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Covering up Janukovich's assets is provocation and technology that is used in pressure on us. So far, you and I have created all the tools to get these assets back, these securities into state ownership. We've created a National Agency for the Management of Arrested Funds and Assets, we've created a special confiscation institute, a special agency, and all the tools are. We want to hear here the arguments of the prosecutors, the investigators who are responsible for the investigation, not the politicians who are trying to play with this topic according to the expectations of society. We are convinced that there is a professional opinion on our side, a professional opinion, a rule of law of the European Union, and there is truth on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the next position of the agenda is the announcement of parliamentary requests. It takes 30 minutes for the parliamentary request to be announced. I ask everyone to concentrate and prepare to hear the MP's questions. Victor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the manufacture of prosthetic orthopedic products and the shoes of the disabled 2 groups, the Ileni Natalija Grigorovni. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir district government administration for the preservation of the Jakorodsky School of the Romani district of Zitomirsk. Andrija Kiselov to the head of the Donetsk district administration for the transfer of boiler number 1 to the municipal property of the district community of Dimitrov Donetsk district. Tetjana Ostrikov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the policy of using the funds provided under the Kyoto Protocol. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the legal regulation of land relations in part of the protection of land rights in rural communities. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the amendment of the State Land cadastre. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the financing of the State’s targeted socio-economic programme for the construction of affordable housing and the State Programme for Youth Housing. Vitalia Stasuka and Elena Boyko to the Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head for the protection of the interests of the communities. Citizens affected by the activities of unkind outsiders. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the Banking Commission when accepting payments from the population for gas. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the process of preparing an updated Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the EU on energy cooperation. Group of National Deputies (Shurms, Peacekeepers and others) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on stimulating the birth rate and lowering prices for newborns. Sergija Matvienkova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the urgent repair of the road by connecting Mariupol-Berdjansk. Igor Guza to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on raising the level of social protection of ATO participants who have been disabled. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the situation of vaccine prevention of the population in the Volin region and the financing of certain government programs. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the construction of a new bridge crossing in the village of Klimentov Ohtyr district of Sumska District and the implementation of other transport infrastructure projects on the Sumščina. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the social protection of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the resolution of the situation with regard to the provision of benefits from UNR veterans, the ZUNR army, Carpathian Sici, UVO, U.N.A., UPA, the Ukrainian Central Liberation Council, the Ukrainian Helsinki Group and other similar organizations. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Association Ukrzaliznica, acting as Head of the regional branch of "Lviv Railway" of the Public Shareholder Association "Ukrainian Railway" for the restoration of train traffic. Jegora Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to take steps to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the regulation of road safety relations since 14 July 2015 and the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act of 23 December 2015 on the functioning of a system for the establishment of road traffic security offences. Valentina Didić to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the activation, as well as the full, comprehensive and impartial examination of all circumstances relating to criminal conduct and the investigation of the signs of crime, provided for in part one of article 364 concerning the abuse of office by the Director of the Klovski Lice No.77 of the Pecher district of Kiev. Sergia Dunaev to the head of the Court of Auditors for the conduct of State external financial control measures (audit) for the use of public budget funds by the Lugansk District Military and Civil Administration. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion in the local budgets of part of the rent for the use of the nadrama. Andrija Derkača to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal and the commission of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine's administrative offence. Helen Sotnik to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the number of orders issued and officially issued by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir district administration for the lighting of the streets of the village of Zeremla Baraniv district of Žitomir district. Vladimir Lithuania to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the status of the Novograd-Volín Literature and Memorial Museum of the Forest of Ukraine. Alexander Oneshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the non-closure and reduction of the number of beds of the therapeutic profile of the Medvin Hospital of the Boguslav district of Kiev. United States Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine to monitor the activities of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine and its territorial units. Groups of National Deputies (Ednaka, Gopko, Kishkara) to the National Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the granting of PAT "Azot" to Dmitri Vasilovich Firtash. Groups of National Deputies (Vasunika, Jurinec, Kadikala) to the Director-General of the National Research and Restoration Centre of Ukraine for the creation of a scientific research institute. Vasjunika’s Igora to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the treatment of patients with viral hepatitis C. Irina Souslowy to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for information on the conduct of a gender-legal analysis of acts of current legislation of Ukraine and draft legislation. Mr. Vasil Janicki, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in the area of the nature monument of the state-wide importance of "Uzefinska dača" in the Rokitnów region of the Plain region. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of public information by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine as a result of public procurement with the participation of international purchasing organisations. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, for the provision of official information on the medical and rehabilitation situation of military personnel in the ATO area. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a land transfer order for joint owners of apartment buildings. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to define the order and conditions for the provision of State targeted support for the acquisition of vocational and higher education by participants in the ATO and their children. Vladimir Ariev to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the conduct of a criminal investigation since 19 September 2015, from 18 December 2015, opened with respect to a Russian citizen named Mikola Alexandrovich, who took possession of the funds of the wives of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who died under Ilowaysk. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region of the Dnipropetrov region for the provision of information on the number of allocated land to members of the territorial community of the village of Novoleksandrovka. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the possibility of including objects of municipal property in emergency medical care. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the building of the Nicopolian National Museum, which will contribute to the upbringing of the Ukrainian young generation in the spirit of Ukrainian tradition. Mr. Mikoli Veliczovich to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Hen procuratorate of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of investigators of the Lichakow District Department of the National Police in the Lviv region and the head of the National Police in the Lviv region, which conduct investigations. Eugene Dejaja to the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev for fraudulent acts committed in the process of adoption of Yaremenko Darina Tarasovna and violation of the rights of Yaremenko’s own sisters Darina Tarasovna and Stihar Anna Maximovna in the process of adoption of Yaremenko Darina Tarasovna by adopters who did not have the overwhelming right to such adoption. Eugene Dejaja to the head of the Children’s and Family Service of the Kyiv City State Administration for the rights violations of Yaremenko’s sisters Darina Tarasovna and Stihar Anna Maximovna during the adoption of Yaremenko Darina Tarasovna. Ljubomir Zubak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the restructuring of the territorial units of the central authorities of the executive branch of the Hoti district. The Gennady of Krivoshei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the system of technical regulation. Jaroslava Dubnevic to Ukrainian Defence Minister, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the transformation of the military force into an army aviation brigade. Jaroslava Dubnević to the State Institute of Central Medical and Social Expert Commission of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the change in the disability group of the invalidity of war to Viktor Struluk. Helen Sotnik and Oksana Siroid to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on providing information on judicial conduct initiated by Russian aggression. Olega Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the cessation of the looting of state land and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens to acquire land for the management of private agriculture in the city of Priluka and the Prilutice region of Montenegro. Oleg Dmitrenk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to stop the looting of state land and property by officials of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine and the management of research holdings. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of legislative acts aimed at the formation of joint owners of apartment buildings. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head on taking immediate action to form the Darnitsky district of Kyiv Children's Youth Sports School "Darnica". Vadim Novinsky to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the inadmissibility of the restoration of worship in the memory of the world architecture of the Little Sofia temple and the inflaming of interfaith enmity. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of clumped gas for household use. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the realization of the right to receive benefits for the acquisition of vocational and higher education by individual categories of citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Bebacha and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of implementation of the National Environmental Target Program for the Management of Radioactive Wastes and Measures envisioned by the Strategy for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes. Alexander Gerega to the temporary duty of the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to pollute the village of Sharyuk Jarmolinecka district of Hmelnicka district as a result of the production of wood by the Society with limited responsibility for "Debrov". Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the delimitation of powers, roles and functions of vocational and technical institutions. John Melniczuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the establishment of landmarks from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Dmitry Lubinz to the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the transfer of assets of the entire property complex, the structural unit of the PAT "MMC Illich Name" "Chemico-Metallurgy Factory" to the State Institute of State Research and Design Institute of Basic Chemistry. Alexia Lensky is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of ecology and natural resources to take steps to stop illegal weapons in the area of forest management in Korstoševševščina of the Žitomir region and to attract the guilty to the responsibility established by Ukraine’s legislation. Alexia Lensky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to return former military sanatoriums - Morshinsky, Odessky, and the glass sanatorium to the Ukrainian Armed Forces to implement the social guarantees of military and ATO personnel, to carry out psychological and physical rehabilitation measures. Andrija Lopushanski to the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration on the need to carry out capital repairs of the state-owned roads of Lviv-Sambir-Uzgorod, Nižankovic-Sambir-Drobic-Strij in the Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the restoration of the activities of the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian Institute for Research and Research in the Petroleum Industry. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for an objective and impartial investigation into blocking the work of border guards on the Ukrainian-Romanian border at the Krasnoylsk Pass. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of drugs for the treatment of cancerous children in the Chernivecki region. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the implementation of the pilot project in the Mikolai region and the city of district value of the New Division of the Lviv Region for the operation of the target monetary mechanism for subsidies to stimulate the population to maximize energy conservation and economic consumption of energy. Tarasa Batenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the immediate allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to preserve and save a unique monument to architecture and to build a national centre – the palace in the village of the Zoločov Region of Lviv. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the status of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct on the basis of unlawful security by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine with the residence of the General of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the ineffective use by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of funds amounting to $182.8 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. For the purchase of housing for military personnel. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct based on the fact that the court judge of the Pecher district court of Kiev, Podpalim Viacheslav Valeriyovic, has been judged unjustly. Romana Macola to the Head of the National Road Agency of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of financing the repair of the Hmel Region road, namely: the R-49 regional road; and the T-23-09, T-18-04, T-06-12 regional road, which is in a state of emergency, resulting in numerous inconveniences. Romana Macola to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the purpose of checking the use of state funds for the reconstruction of the "Pure sewerage facilities of the city of Polone with a productivity of 5000 mcm./doub". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Chernobyl ODA on the need for funding from the State Budget of Ukraine to carry out repairs on roads of general use of the local value of the Visniki district of Cherniewec. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Head of the Chernobyl ODA on the use of urgent measures to pay off the existing one in the Vistnicki, Putilski, Kitzmansky and Stryzinetsky regions of the Chernobyl area of debt from the payment of wages. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on New Rules of Gas Supply Accounting. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the registration in the Parliament of a government bill on the abolition of pension privileges for civil servants established in the new Ukrainian Law on State Service, which violates article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that "there can be no privileges or restrictions on the signs of race, colour of skin. or other signs." Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the town of Kharkova, part of the hostel, at the turn of Rustaveli, 11 in the city of Kharkiv. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the Ukrainian Blood Centers. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the delay and on the urgent steps taken to implement the State's target programme to support participants and their children in the process of obtaining vocational and higher education. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the review of the call for public organizations on the construction costs of the Dalisko-Voskresen bridge crossing. Andrija Illenka to the head of the KMDA, a temporary duty of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, the head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council on Budget and Socio-Economic Development to include in the list of socio-economic development programmes in Kiev as well as repairs of asphalt cover on the Prospect of Lisov, 18-20 and Milutenka Street, 40/16. Jury Berezi to the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov district on the legality of the transfer to private property of the bomb shelter located in the town of Upper Provsk, of the Dnipropetrov region. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the untransparent use of budgetary resources when setting up free legal aid centres, low performance in providing such services, and warning of corruption in the conduct of the procedures. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the critical situation of the Poltava oblovtodor DP "DAC "Urban Roads of Ukraine", which was the result of the underfunding from the state budget for the work carried out by the company in January-March 2016. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of measures aimed at halting separatist acts using interfaith religious conflicts. Oleg Osuhovski to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of comprehensive measures to protect the interests of the territorial community of the city of Irpen. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the proper provision of medical supplies and quality medical care to the Chaes and citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in Bilocerkowski, Vladarski, Skirski, Stavishtian, Tarastian, and Tetijev areas of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the director of the NABU, head of the Kyiv District Council for the consolidation of hunting grounds in the Tarsatian region of the Kyiv region. Mikhail Gołka and Oleg Osukhowski to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for violations by PAT officials of "The Crushing" legislation in the area of public procurement, which caused damage to the state in the amount of at least 52 million dollars. Mikhail Gołka and Oleg Osukhowski to the director of the NABU, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, is the director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to review the appeal of public organizations in the area of combating corruption. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for compensation for the average wage for employees appointed for military service. Oleg Kulinić to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the reservation by the Chief Administration of the State Department in the Poltava area of land outside the settlements of the Zynkow City Council for participants in the ATO. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the State Archives of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for financing the construction of the air conditioning and ventilation system in the State Archive of the Kyiv Region with the aim of eliminating violations of legislation governing the operation of the archives. Jaroslava Moskalenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine on the anti-government policy of high-ranking DP "Urzaliznica" on public procurement of goods in the aggressor State and ignoring the interests of the domestic producer. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the extension of powers of local self-government and the optimization of the provision of administrative services and other legislative acts in the area of the decentralization of power in Ukraine. Sergey Vlastenka to the Head of the High Council of Justice regarding the number of decisions taken by the High Council of Justice to recommend to the body authorized to elect or appoint a judge to release judges for violating their oath and for the number of open disciplinary orders against judges, other decisions taken by the High Council of Justice as a result of their activities. Sergey Larina under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the rights of members of the Political Party of the Opposition Block in the Kirovograd region. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the objective investigation of the road transport accident at the participation of the Poltava City Head Mama Alexander Fedorović on July 10, 2015. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the road to general use of O162320/T-16-44/- Bogdanovka-Mikolayevka-Starosilla-Minajilovka-Pharaonovka in the 2016 Regional Priority List. Ivan Melniczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Vinnické ODA for the timely allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Sport and Health Institute "Junost" in the city of Žmerinka. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the restoration of the financing of the State's targeted socio-economic programme for the construction of affordable housing for 2010-2017. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the raiding of the territory of the Yavorovsky National Park National Fund in the Lviv region. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need for a proportional redistribution of funds from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank to repair all areas of road N-01 Kyiv-Znamínka within the Kyiv, Cerkaske and Kirovograd regions. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the formal approach of the government to solving the problem of payment for natural gas consumed by the financial institutions of Kamyansk, Smilanski, Cherkaski and other regions of the Cherkas region. Olga Cervakovy under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the acquisition of authority by officials and deputies of the Cotsubin Village Council, to prevent the village head of a village of the city type Cotsubinsk Kyiv district of Matushiny O.V. on the inactivity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Roman Semenha to the executive duty of the Attorney General of Ukraine to arrange for the examination of the facts of biased criminal investigation. Jaroslava Markevich to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of possible breaches of tax legislation. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the expansion and provision of additional facilities for the "Livivian District Centre for Prevention and Control of AIDS" and for the development of a comprehensive programme for the fight and prevention of HIV infections, as well as for the use of hospice medicine. Vladimir Parasuka to the director of the NAB regarding the illegal enrichment of the director of the Lviv Opera, Thaddey Eder, at the expense of hiding overseas gastronomic trips. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the cessation of the activities of notaries and state registrants, which carry out baseless re-registrations of immovable property. Sergey Kudlaenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the granting of Dmitri Smygunov the status of a participant in hostilities and the need to verify the legality of the actions of military personnel in the B2248. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the granting to volunteer Jury Roman Valentinovich the status as a participant in the fighting. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the KMDA, the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev City, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev, for violations of city standards and the well-being of the community sites by the Society with limited responsibility of City Building Invest on the street of Rickniy, 4. Jury Lewchenka to the State-owned enterprise "Quantity Research Institute", the State Labour Inspectorate, the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Military Prosecutor's Office of the Central Region of Ukraine on debt from wages and fraud in the wage network of the state-owned enterprise "Quant Science Research Institute". Anton Heraszczenk to the public limited liability company "Ukrazliznica", "Lifsell", "ATRAKOM COMPANY", "ATRAKOM" and "Private Shareholder Society" with limited responsibility for providing information on the fibre-optic power lines in the area of AR Crimea. Anton Heraszczenka to the State Enterprise Inforesource, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for information and documentation. Victor Romanyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the Russian Federation special forces network in Ukraine. Victor Romanyuk to the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power in relation to c.o. President of the University of State Fiscal Services, Paul Pashko. Gregory Times of the Chief Executive Officer of the DFS in the Cherniewec Region for the verification of the full payment of taxes by a citizen named Semenyuk to the state budget and to the budget of the Mamalygian territorial community of the Chernobyl area for the use of immovable property and land located on the territory of the Dranitsky Rural Council. Gregory Times to the First Deputy Chief of the General Administration of the Ministry of the Interior in the Montenegrin Region for the provision of information from the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Montenegrin Region Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, Odessa ODA on the need for an objective review of the need for an internally displaced person, the Victorian Gallery, who, with young children and family, temporarily resides in the Kyiv district of Odessa on the need for comprehensive assistance from socio-economic issues and employment opportunities. Dear colleagues, I have literally three pages left. We had questions, we had never been able to complete all the questions, and many deputies were disappointed. I will, with your permission, finish because this is literally two or three minutes, although the time for reading requests is over. Thank you. Alexander Marchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of vocational and technical institutions at the expense of a State budget subsidy. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-retirement of pension and social benefits to internally displaced persons. Sergey Berezenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on parental access to the emergency wards. Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the protection of the constitutional right of health workers employed in harmful and difficult working conditions to retire at an age on extended conditions. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Head of the Vinnické ODA, District Council, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Vinnicagaz for the conduct of the periodic trust of gas counters, their technical services and related repairs. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Director of the Department of Social and Youth Policy of the Vinické ODA, District Council, Directorate of Labour and Social Protection of the People of the Vinické District State Administration, Head of the Vinické District Public Administration for the appointment of State Social Assistance to Pedulec Ivan Victorovich to single father Pedulec Denis Ivanovich, in connection with the death of his mother. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the financing of a special budget grant to natural persons for the maintenance and preservation of young cattle. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Board of Directors, Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the transfer of housing on 99th Street in Korostishev to the statutory fund of VAT "Korostishivski Lonozád" and the further registration of him as a residence, a hostel. Groups of people’s deputies (Markevich, Sotnik and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for reasons not to cancel financial contacts with the Islamic Republic of Iran. And Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on the need for an objective review of the appeal of veterans to work, a disabled second group of Bondarenko Valentina Fedorovna, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa, on the need for assistance on the possibility of her son’s employment in the economic field. Dear colleagues, I was able to read all the parliamentary questions that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine this week. Before we announce the intermission provided by the Rules, I would like to consult you, colleagues. Perhaps it would be appropriate for us to move immediately to the national seats after the break. [[B in m in s a l in]] That would be wise, wouldn't it? In view of the mass support in the hall, I'm going to say in advance that after the 12:30 break, we'll start by recording the performances in the "Variance." So all those who have important messages for Ukrainian society. We could do without a break. We only need one nuance -- 226 votes to cancel it. I don't think the level of mobilization in the hall is that high. He's tall, but he's not that tall. Therefore, in view of our common visions of the future work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby declare a 30 - minute break from 12.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m. And I ask that at 12:30 everyone be in the hall to continue our hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, ready to work? That's good. So there's going to be a record of parliamentary appeals, of inquiries. And I'm asking my fellow MPs who want to participate to come into the hall and prepare for the recording. So everyone's in the hall? Everybody ready to sign up? Yegor's still coming in. You're ready, aren't you? Dear colleagues! A record is being announced for the national MPs' speeches on various issues, in different ways. Please record. Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u64	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Today, a shameful event took place at the Dniprov Court of Kiev. A criminal case against Yuri Ivanyushchenk has been closed, he has been removed from the search, and precautions have been taken. A person can freely return to his family in Monaco along with all the money that was looted in Ukraine during Victor Yanukovic’s leadership. The decision regarding the removal of Johnishchenk from Interpol was passed by Odyssen judge Chaus. This name is known throughout the country when decisions on the precautionary action of Gennady Corban were adopted. Of course, we can believe tales that Judge Chaus had approved this decision of good faith before receiving a ruling of Kiev's appeal that it was the Righteous Court that should consider this decision. And it was Chaus who somehow fell for this fate to make such a decision that Johnishenko could be free. This is another example of the lawlessness that is taking place in Ukraine. Another example is that we don't have an independent Attorney General, another example of how things are "melting" with political parties. Does anyone in this room believe that a judge can make such a decision, and such an ostrich judge, who has so much compromise, without an order from the Bank? That's a rhetorical question. I think the answer is obvious to everyone. What's going on in the state is just going back at all. David Sacrarelidze was released, the man who broke the case against the "diamond prosecutors" -- the nearest neighborhood of Shockin. Crime against the Anti-Corruption Centre, which dealt with all illegal activities of the Attorney General’s Office, has been violated. They took the liberty of accessing the financial records of a non-governmental organization. This was the last time Janukovich was involved in the "Honestly" movement. The Office of the Attorney General has established a special department of the pocket, the so - called Department of Crimes against State Property and State Property. The director of this department is known as the Cononenko MP and his right hand of deputy Granowski. It is in this department that an investigator named Sus is working to investigate the Saquarelidze case, which has been observed in other matters where a political basis has been identified. This is another example of the fact that the position of Attorney General is far more important than our debates about the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will meet in public, it will be a collegiate body. One that will make a decision in front of the entire state. While the Attorney General will be in his office, consulting with his senior associates, deciding on whom to expose the conduct, against whom to conceal the conduct, to whom the judges should direct the order, which the judge should be released. This is another example of what we finally have to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u65	30 seconds, Sergey Leschenko, not more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u66	This is another example of what we need to do to put a dot in place to appoint people who have political loyalty to the leadership of the state. The president has to put a dot. And yesterday in Washington, D.C., during his meeting with Vice President Joe Biden, he received a clear signal: America will not support Ukraine until there is reform of the Attorney General's Office until an independent Attorney General is appointed. What other signals are needed to place a dot in this practice of appointing attorneys - general as a sign of personal loyalty?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u67	Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the second year is the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The second year that Russia adopted the assets of the Ukrainian state, it took the property of our citizens, which resulted in us all suffering enormous damage. But what is being done by the State of Ukraine is completely unknown. In fact, we should have long ago presented Russia with large trillion claims of damage caused by military aggression, the annexation of Crimea, the annexation of East, the damage our citizens suffered from the destruction of their property, the loss of business, the damage caused by health. I applied to the Ministry of Justice until I received an answer. But from the oral answer, I realized that we were still waiting. What are we waiting for? We constantly ask our Western partners for help in terms of pressure on Russia and in terms of the financial sanctions that have to take it economically so that it has nothing to finance the fighters and continue this aggression. But if we continue to act without action and expect someone to do our job for us, nothing will happen, and our partners will turn away from us. That's why I'm asking you to do the next one. On the following Friday, the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Foreign Affairs, with reference to documents, made clear what claims were made, what amounts they were based on and what Ukraine had done to bring Russia to financial responsibility for all the damage and suffering it had caused to both Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Berezenko Sergey Ivanovich gives his word to Olga Cervakovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you about the subject of my parliamentary inquiry read today by the parliamentary presidency. It refers to a village of the city type of the Kyiv Kyiv Region, in which there is a full legal vachanal and a violation of any laws. In fact, the creation of a new "Cocubin People's Republic" is taking place, as was the case in DNR and LNR of self-proclaimed people. Now, the MP's majority of the "New Face" party, headed by Vladimir Karpluk, the mayor of Irpina, is trying to shake the village head of the Katsubin Olga Matyshina, the legitimately elected village head in order to remove her from power. In fact, Cotsubinsk is now a territory where laws don't work, doesn't recognize any rules, and there's a full legal vacchanal. And now it's actually, right now, it's kind of like a national republic, absolutely where there's no law at all. In Kotsubinsky they create, they call fairy-tale sessions, which are convened by the secretary of Julia Glavaca, without any procedure, to violate the law. At these sessions, fair decisions are made on joining Cotsubinsky to Irpen in violation of the Law on the Voluntary Association of Communities without any public discussion, without taking the methodology into account and without taking into account any opinion of the community at all. An anti-democracy regulation was adopted at the same fairy-tale session that the community had no right to participate and to be present at sessions of the Cotsubin Village Council. It's for these corrupt devices that they want to roll to do without a known community. When Olga Matyushina imposes all this veto, it just happens to be absolutely fantastic, colleagues, things. During one of the sessions that took place in February, Olga Matushina tried to hold a session, and she was approached by an MP from the "New Faces" of Nazaruk, broke his arm, took off the microphone, and was actually thrown into the corridor. After that, they declared themselves chairman of the session and began to conduct the session and make the decisions they considered necessary. There are no budgetary questions, no votes for the things that are needed for the community. The price of the question is the four thousand hectares of forest, which these colored regions now want to continue to decimate, and Olga Matushina, who is actually depriving them of power, is now hindering them. I appeal to the President of Ukraine to take immediate action to comply with the President's decree to grant this forest the status of the National Park. I'm addressing the Cabinet of Ministers for a purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u71	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u72	require that these measures be expedited so that the forest is protected, to the head of the BSC and the Attorney General's Office, as well as the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who is required to bring the area in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Please accept Olga Chervakov's speech as a parliamentary request. We need to put it in shape. Gerasimov gave the word to Olga Cervakovi, and now I invite you to the word of Berezenka Sergio Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I have a list of the MPs I have written down in front of me. Then let's have Berezenko speak now, then I'll give Opanasenkova. This is what I see on my computer, perhaps mistakenly. Berezenko, then Opanasenko. Okay? After Berezenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a national MP to a member of the Health Committee, I have received numerous appeals from my parents about medical personnel refusing to allow their sick children into the parent’s emergency wards, arguing with the hospital’s internal rules. These rules have remained in Soviet times, and this is a terrible apathy in Ukraine, which is still being preserved. Because we are well aware that parental attention and care are often essential to the recovery of children. And if you don't allow your parents to be resuscitated right now, it can lead to very severe consequences and sometimes death alone without the parents of these children, and that's terrible. In doing so, the law does not prohibit parents from staying with their children. Ukrainian legislation provides for the right of any patient of the station to be admitted by members of his family. This is provided for in article 287 of the Civil Code, and this is also provided for in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Protection Legislation and special regulations or exceptions to the resuscitation departments are completely non-legislative. In Ukraine, there are only a few open-label hospitals, such as the Children's Cardiology and Cardiosurgery Centre in Kiev, the West Ukrainian Children's Hospital in Lviv, which is the former Lviv County Children's Hospital, which is 25 years old. For all these years, this intensive care and resuscitation unit has opened its doors to the parents of patients, following the rules and regulations, parents and caregivers can stay with their children in a day - to - day resuscitation. Taking into account all the requests that came to us on the committee, I have decided to make a parliamentary statement on this point, because I think that it is the MOH that should create an order today that clearly regulates the arrangements for finding parents next to children, and the cases in which it is impossible to do so. Hospitals, in turn, should ensure that the order is executed and that the rights of the parents and children in the emergency room are not violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u75	Thank you. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich, Self-help, is invited to the floor. Passes the word to Jehor Sobolev, please. One break. Berezenko was speaking for himself, he was listed, they just handed the word to Olga Chervakovi Herasim, and Berezenko was speaking for himself, as it was written. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u76	Only in the last few years of the news. Judge Kzarevich, who imprisoned not one court official, was admitted to serving as a judge and could serve as a full - time judge. Against Ephraim, who was behind the creation of the People's Republic of Luhansk, the Attorney General's Office, together with the court, closed the case. The last news in this room was already sounded by Sergey Lechchenko: Ivanyushchenka is no longer looking for Ukrainian justice, in "Jura Yenakiewski" everything is in order with Ukrainian law. This news is only in the last hours. In fact, throughout the country, people have not been feeling for the first month that those minor changes, those little achievements that began after Eromaydan, are rapidly disappearing. Actually, Janukovich's regime is back. He may have separate new leaders, although they are usually the same people, the same schemes, and the same performers. But just as then, unconscious kleptocracy begins to ignore people’s thinking and begin to think that they are allowed to do so. How do you stop it? This is a huge question for all of us. We've had two revolutions, and after two revolutions, the kleptocracy has returned and won again. Besides, we now have a war, we have an aggressor, the first to support Ukrainian corruption, for which Ukrainian corruption is its first agent. How can this be corrected? One of the decisions suggested by Self-Help is the appointment of an independent Attorney General. Both King and Ephraim and Johnishchenka would be dealt with by the true Attorney General without problems, not urging people to go out without violating the laws of Ukraine. My colleagues and I have registered a bill that requires this and all future attorneys-generals to be elected independent experts to conduct an open telecame competition, to listen to every candidate, to give society the opportunity to take part in the review and then to propose to the President and Parliament. We think that the appointment of a strong, independent, principled Attorney General is a very important way out of a situation that, on the one hand, will allow kleptocracy to be struck and, on the other hand, will allow blood to be avoided. We very much ask all colleagues in Parliament, we ask the President of Ukraine to listen even to the voice of reason when the voice of conscience is asleep.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u77	Thank you. Litwin Vladimir Mikhailovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! What is a legitimate state? It is a state in which social problems are solved and where security is guaranteed, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens. If I ask if Ukraine is a legitimate state, I think the answer is definitely negative. A few examples. These are the last letters and people calling and communicating with them in the district. Schools are being closed down, hospitals are being severely eliminated in the form of optimization. But the point was, I had just received a letter from the famous town of Korstošev on March 11th that they turned off the heat -- no money. And then a group of people writes, "How come there's no money when the prime minister of Ukraine claims that local budgets have increased by 40 percent? Where's the truth?" Because as long as they're fighting for power in Kiev, the system of organization of life in places is finally falling apart. You know very well that local leaders do not usually go to people. On the prepared stairs, by the way. What do we see right here in Kiev in the session room? It's not about how to organize a country, it's about who's going to run the country. Rescheduling, culinary arrangements, conspiracies, and quota sharing. What have we come to? They used to be very hard on "breaths." What do we see today? Today we see political hires being leased in various ways. What do we see in the Supreme Council? The Supreme Council is divided into patriots and enemies. This means that we have a division of the country, no dialogue, no understanding of the common problems, and there's no solution to them, we have a declared democracy that's turning into a holocracy. You know, Plutarch in Alexander and Caesar's work gives words that seem to belong to Alexander the Great when he sees his environment decaying with luxury, he exclaimed indignantly, "Do you not understand that the ultimate goal of our victory is not to do what the vanquished did?" Today, we see that the conquerors are doing what the conquerors did. Obviously, there's one thing that needs to be understood: stop shuddering about reforms, and all of us here and the Supreme Council, together, realize responsibility and do real work, otherwise, I think the winners, as a result of long-term conspiracies and agreements, will find themselves before we have no one to manage, we just don't have time to conflict and divide the country, because all the time, as Lesia Ukraine said, we choose curved roads, and we run away from us, time completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u79	Thank you. Spores Ivan Dmitrovitch passes the word Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u80	Good afternoon. Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv You know, according to its nature, a dog can't see the color of a rainbow, but that doesn't mean that such a spectral phenomenon doesn't exist in nature. Yesterday, they tried to close their eyes that there was no problem with used cars in Ukraine. Someone before that was behind a soft ass to just sit down and sit down for six hours, and someone was just consciously ignoring it, believing that a free vote could turn into a faction of decisions that everyone would vote on. Unfortunately, these people are not even in the hall today. Today I'm going to stand for auto-euro-integration, for those laws that were supposed to be heard yesterday and voted in this room as a basis and as a whole. This is Law 3046, which allows you to pay just taxes and blur the cars. When we're told that it's going to be missing funds in the budget, but no, we're showing that a million and 100,000 we can add. We can add billions and 100 million to Ukraine's budget. When we show that at the age of 16 this situation will change for at least a year, no, we choose another. We choose that serving someone who can convince them how to be smart is much more important today. We'll never be Euro-integrated in our lives if we don't want to look at what's written in those pay materials. Just ask yourself, open some of these papers that you're handing out here, and just read it. Thank you to those who did yesterday, and today can support this, which realizes that today 2 million Ukrainians who are solving their questions in their own way with "fast help" in remote locations; with a school bus and their children; with a shop that is not in their village; with those cars that they can buy cheaply in border areas. But actually these blurry cars are not just a border issue. This is a problem that today concerns a Ukrainian who cannot become an average Ukrainian who can earn his family a decent living today. I want to thank Nina Petrovni Jujanini. This is the person who is the head of the committee who presented this bill yesterday 3046 -- the first bill, the next 3251 -- which says let's do it instead of populism, and even when there are 90 deputies here, but not everyone wants to vote, let's do something for people. And it's clear that this bill has to be adopted. Spend a year, but do something useful and good for people. Let us not waste any time, opportunity, or words that we give to our electorate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Head Mikhail Josifovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u82	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Deputies! Before we begin speaking, I would like to say that today, unfortunately, an event took place in Konotap, where our freeman, Artem Semenichin, is the city’s head. The local KST, a television channel that is a fairly fair and honest television channel, has been burned, which is objectively highlighting the position, including supporting the action of the city’s head. And of course, what's going on is that virtually terrorism in our country is being silenced, today law enforcement says we have a missing law enforcement system. Regrettably, today the Ministry’s minister does not keep order and reduce crime, but deals solely with the cracking of amber in the Plains and Zitomirsk. So, of course, I'd like to go not to him, because it doesn't make sense to the Security Service and the Public Prosecutor's Office to take control of this issue and find all the culprits that happened today in Connotap. But the theme of my speech was, after all, I wanted to pay attention. That, unfortunately, you and I are on the same page. Today, there is an active trade in positions and culinary arrangements. Like last night in Kiev, where Avakov, Yatzenuk, and Lozkin walk by the Star with dozens of guards and how they can't divide the coalition. Form what the next coalition in the Ukrainian Parliament will be like. Unfortunately, we don't hear the debate, the programs of our nation's development and its coming out of the crisis. All we hear is a "bite" for the warm place, for the chairs, for the Titanic, that's already going down, and everyone's going to compete, who's going to be in the warmer cabin or behind the propeller of this ship that's already going down. So our task today is completely different. We need to talk about our country's development strategy, how to get the economy out of the shadows. And we're proposing these projects as the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. That the panacea should not be a visa-free regime for all the last working Ukrainians to leave Ukraine, but how to create jobs here in Ukraine that need to be created in a year or so in Ukraine. And Freedom knows how to do it. We need to close off. These bills, which have been in Parliament for more than two years but do not want to be considered by Parliament. We need to change the tax system. We still need to lend small and medium-sized businesses to create jobs so that Ukraine becomes the industrial hub of Europe that is competitive today in world markets. We can compete with other countries and produce much more quality, not be a raw supplement that tries to turn us, but unfortunately, these initiatives of freedom that are now registered, parliament does not want to consider. Because the coalition doesn't care about the development of the country, it doesn't care about the welfare of the population, it doesn't care about the wealth of our citizens. They want to think only about how to clean up the territory, sell the rest of the strategic enterprises, sell the last Ukrainian land and everything they care about, and just jobs and places, and who will steal to continue in Ukraine. That's why we insist. (Please let me finish.) We demand: the first is the dissolution of Parliament; the temporary elections; the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u83	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u84	Give legitimacy today to citizens and society, to Ukrainians to choose the authority they trust, because this authority has no confidence in people and only a new parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u85	Dubnevich Jaroslav conveys the word to Derevyankov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Now in Ukraine, after the Dignity Revolution, there is a corruption counter-revolution at all levels of power. There is still no coalition, only four men are missing. What took you so long? Because there's a reduction in the bank. It's kind of a reverse auction, when they're trying to buy a fat as cheap, cool, closed, without decisions and factions sometimes, they write the names of deputies, then they're announced from the rostrum as statisticians. Time goes, everyone pulls to keep Yatzenuk still in office, there's a deal for the portfolios, underground corruption, all of this is happening now. And all of those Janukovitch schemes work in full swing, and the MPs are lured into factions. But they don't buy it, they buy it from the Ukrainian people, they buy their own people, they buy it unceremoniously, they buy it dirtyly, they buy it cynically. I want to address every Ukrainian. If you think these people are being bought into what is called the largest faction or coalition to create an ideological collective group, no. They're only bought to preserve corruption flows, they're bought just to keep this corruption going, they're bought to keep all these schemes that allow stealing going on. Such policies are also being pursued at regional level. And those young politicians, who have made it to the local authorities, have now become a serious obstacle and a threat to corrupters and oligarchs. Here's a specific example. Yesterday at the Ivano-Frankow District Council, the deputy head of the district council of Olga Galabal was released. This is a man from Euromapidan, from the European public sector, a member of the Will Council, who was released without any explanation and no reason. Although not, I'll say the reasons were. What are these reasons? She's one of the deputies and deputies on the district council, who first said that "will" would not support a ladder of 65 million bracelets without a single tender, "will" would not support the ladder and the stealing of gravel on rivers, illegal logging of forests, the criminal derby of the lands of national parks. "Will" insisted and insists that all purchases of more than 50,000 dollars be made through the ProZorro system, through an electronic purchasing system, not through a well-founded company or governor or local MPs. And it's very symptomatic that she initiated the release of Olga Galabala, the very faction of the BP "Solidarity" for supporting the "watcher" from the President in the Ivano-Frankiv region. And along with a bunch of oligarchs like UKROP, Self-Help has supported and also supported other MPs from Freedom who are responsible for all the years before. Yes, such "lookers" from Yanukovic are all over Ukraine, we know that very well. But they don't like it when we talk openly about corruption, when we talk and call those names, they don't like it when it's all happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u87	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u88	And please tell me, do they have the right of the party that came after Maidan to do this? Do they have the right today to ban and expose corruption and to carry out these reforms on the ground? That's what happened because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. I'll just give you a break. Society, I'm not giving you 30 seconds, and you're taking 30 seconds from your colleague to understand. Many sit and wait for their talk to come to an end and wonder if it will come to him. So it's not my will, it's disrespect for my colleagues. And that's why I'm going to give at least 10 seconds, and you're going to try 10 seconds just to pass on the key medium, your message. Please, Igor Gus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u90	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency. I'm going from this rostrum to Peter Alexiyovich Dustenka for the third time, and unfortunately, I can now talk about the fact that there are diversans in the President's Office who are destroying Ukrainian international politics. The fact is, for over a year now, there has been no ambassador in a country like Belarus. Kill me, crucify me, and I can't understand why the President of Ukraine can't find one person and appoint the Ambassador of Ukraine to Belarus. It's not Zimbabwe, it's not Paraguay, it's not Mongolia. This is a country with which we share a border. It's a country that has a common military relationship with the Russian Federation. To not appoint an ambassador to the Republic of Belarus is a diversion, it is an activity against the Ukrainian State. Peter Alexiovich! I insist, I demand to listen to the overwhelming part of Parliament, to appoint an ambassador. I'm not calling it a name, I'm talking about what should be a person who would defend the country's interests. In view of the absence of such a person, I will tell you what is going on in Belarus. First. In the last few days, the parents of Belarusian volunteers who fought for Ukraine's independence and fought in the Donbas and Oz battalions, and not only did the U.N. come to the Kadabs, throw everything up, take the laptops, and so on, try to push. In fact, the families of those fighting for Ukraine's independence in the east are being persecuted -- the families of the Belarusians. Who Will Protect Them? Where is the Embassy of Ukraine to protect these families? Instead, there are people in Belarus who fought in the ranks of the DNR and the LNR on the side of the separatists, some of them interviewed and said that they had destroyed hundreds of Ukrainians. No note of protest by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the ambassador is not, the embassy is doing so, and this is how the fight of the Belarusians by the DNR/LNR is praised. This is an unprincipled position of the Ukrainian State in relation to our position in Belarus, and we have to push it to the Ukrainian side. Third time please, Peter Alexiyovich, appoint an ambassador or come here and explain why you can't do this for a year? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u91	Thank you. Mosiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich and Rybalka are giving their performances to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška Láška, so he has a six - minute performance. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm primarily talking to Ukrainian citizens. I know how hard it is for each of you to live today, because so am I, and the MPs from the Radical Party faction, every day, when a non-plenary week, we have meetings, we go around the country, we listen to people. We know that most of you today count a penny to buy yourself a piece of bread without butter, most of you have no medicine to pay for treatment. Many of you have forgotten to go to the hospital because there is nothing to go to that hospital, there is nothing to go to that hospital, and there is no road to go to that hospital. Most of you have children who are unfortunately unemployed, some of your children have gone abroad in search of a better destiny, and you see them, at best, once a year when they return to their home, and most of them are trading in markets where they earn three pennies in hard work to feed their family. Government policies, and this is obvious to everyone, the policies of today's government, the President, the Government, the National Bank, the parliamentary majority, have suffered from this fiasco. Because this policy, instead of the promised reforms, instead of the European path of development, instead of radically increasing citizens' incomes, and so their lives have led to the opposite — poverty, begging, widespread corruption, abuse. And most importantly, until the country, like two years ago, before the Dignity Revolution, before the country was ruled by the Yanukovic gang, there is no justice. A man who's studied can't achieve anything in this life if he doesn't have a hairy arm, or a dad, or a prosecutor, or a judge, or a militiaman, or a deputy. We have a whole family here in Parliament. A simple laborer from the village, a colporteur, a carpenter, a painter, a miner can't find a job, and their children can't find one either. There seems to be no way out, but there's actually a way out. The outcome is radical political, economic, social change proposed by the Radical Party team. The exit is a plan of the Light that we've presented to the whole country and we've led to a well-known society. If the Radical Party had a majority in Parliament, not 20 MPs, we wouldn't waste a day forming a coalition and trading, collecting dead bodies to take power. Because we don't have time to trade, we have to save the country by spending our time raising people's living standards, creating a power that will work for the country and protect every Ukrainian. So today, as a team of radicals in power, we proposed a plan to solve our problems. Four key positions: political reform, because corruption comes out of the election when votes are bought in the constituencies, then they come to Parliament and reflect these votes by making money. So the change in the electoral system, the change in the Constitution, the removal from the Constitution of dualism of power, when the President, the government and Parliament are fighting each other, not fighting for Ukrainian peasants, workers, Ukrainian children, Ukrainian pensioners, Ukrainian budgeters. The next key problem is the radical corruption of the judiciary and the prosecution system. We are proposing a judicial reform, a prosecutorial reform that envisions the release of all judges and prosecutors. Independent justice, a non-profit prosecutor's office, transparent and honest law enforcement is a guarantee, including the country's economic development. Because when there's a sales court, there's not a single investor coming here, and he's not bringing the money. That means there will be no jobs. And the third, the key is a radical change in economic policy. Today, the President, the government and the parliamentary majority are trying to change the boards in the cabinets, and they're trying to replace some people with other people's corruption flows. In fact, instead of changing beds in brothels, you need to change radically economic policies, you need to clean up the political class that has been operating for 24 years, parasitizing the Ukrainian soul, the Ukrainian earth, the Ukrainian heart. And so the Radical Party is proposing radical economic changes, primarily aimed at restoring national production, changing monetary policy, so that small, medium and large businesses have cheap loans rather than walk around like bums, all over the world with their hands stretched out and earning three copies, instead of their mother selling the land by selling the soul by selling it. We demand an end to the anti-national looting policy of today’s authorities. We offer the community, we offer the Ukrainians an alternative plan of action that will lead our country to a broad road of development that will enable people to work, earn, feed their families, and look forward to tomorrow. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u93	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich conveys the word Igor Shurmi. Please. Get ready, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u94	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I would like to raise today a question that is both regional and national. The question is both ecological, and the issue concerns Ukraine’s national security. The West Bug River, which flows through the territory of three European states: Ukraine, Belarus, and Poland. And given the entire Baltic Sea basin, the ecological state of the river affects people's lives and health in 13 countries. As a result of pollution, nutrients such as fish, high concentrations of these chlorides in drinking water, are harmful to vegetation, and they cause salinization. The clearings of Lvov are the main source of pollution in Western Bug. As early as the 12th year, 1 billion dollars were allocated for the modernization of the city's sewage industry. But for today. 1 billion dollars. Today alone, 15 million, or 2 percent of the funds, have been allocated, and this does not affect the modernization of cleaning facilities. As reported in the State Environmental Inspection report in Lviv Region, the Lviv Water Channel does not have clearance for waste disposal and nadrama. As for the municipal company Collector, which is one of the largest environmental polluters, the utility operates without any permission, and in the last quarter of 2015 it was illegally exported to the Gribovecki garbage dump of 62 tons of waste. In addition, in 2013, Derzeko inspection stated that the collecting utility is dumping more into the sewers. 20 times the number. filterates. Last year, the company did not allow the inspection to carry out a survey of its sewage. On October 13, 2015, Derzeko inspection was not allowed for the planned inspection of the municipal plant Collector in order to carry out studies on infiltrations from clean-up facilities. Thus, the problem of pollution of this river basin, the deterioration of water quality and the lack of regulation of russels becomes critical at three levels: regional pollution of Lviv, Volin region ecosystems within the West Bug River Basin; state-owned pollution risks are the gradual loss of Ukraine's territory on the border with Poland; international pollution of the ecosystem of other States as a result of trans-border movement of toxic substances. It's a matter of safety. Because of pollution, this shift of West Bug’s coasts, Ukraine loses every year. In 15 years, she lost 100 acres [100 ha] of land. There is a risk of further loss of Ukraine's territory, according to an accountancy report, if nothing changes, we have the opportunity to lose 5,000 hectares of risk, which is actually the territory of a country like San Marino. Please consider my statement to the National Security Council of Ukraine regarding the involvement of those responsible for this environmental and national disaster. I want to, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u95	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u96	I want to focus on the next one. Today, in the eastern border of Ukraine, our boys die, standing up for every square meter of Ukrainian territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u97	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u98	On the West Bug, we lose just a few acres of land, our land, because of the inadequacy of financing the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u99	Thank you. Dmitrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich is invited to attend. But he is also given his presentation by Kozachenko, who is two minutes away, and so I ask for a six - minute rule to be included. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u100	The noble Ukrainian people, the honourable deputies, whenever I want to raise a question that concerns many of our peasants, are hundreds of thousands of people who are now depopulated and have no right to land, who today cannot use their constitutional, constitutional way to get 2 hectares. What I would like to remind you is that the Prime Minister, in his address to the people, if you know, on Saturdays, said that in our country today, there are about a million hectares of land in shadow traffic that are being used by our officials. It's about the Academy of Agrarian Sciences, and today it's the world's largest latifundist, but the highest seed companies in the world don't even go into the first hundred. Today, these villages under which the Academy of Agricultural Sciences is located have no work, no constitutional rights. Today, there are some 200,000 people deprived of any right to exist. I call on the Head of the Supreme Council in Parliament to create a temporary commission of inquiry, to evaluate these schemes for the theft of state land, which are ineffectively used, to appeal to the law enforcement authorities to punish the perpetrators. The whole earth is divided into two hectares. Today, ATO soldiers, who protect our borders in their blood and health in the east, are not entitled to 2 hectares. We have the anniversary of the 30th anniversary of Chernobyl. Nor can the Chernobylers get it. Teachers, doctors, pensioners are the ones who worked in the rural community and have no right to receive this land today. So today, more quickly than ever, we need to create this commission and make this assessment so that our people, our voters, feel that in the Supreme Council, it is not just populistic slogans and statements that the Supreme Council can do something for people today. And it will be very pleasant, as our Ukrainian peasant, teacher, doctor, ATOSHNIK will give a good mention to their deputies that they have been given the opportunity to obtain constitutional law, two hectares. And that will give them, families will be better tomorrow, for they will be able to either process this land or rent it. They'll have a chance to use it effectively. They'll have a chance to make a profit, to exist. Our Ukrainian people are very cooperative. They'll create communities, they'll create farms, businesses in the countryside. So today I really urge everyone to join in, put an end to the plundering of the state. Today we need it more than ever. People are expecting us to do this. We have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Mr. Silantiev Denis Olegovich is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u102	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Last week, on March 23, 2016, Parliamentary hearings were held in the session hall of the Supreme Council on the development of physical culture and sports under conditions of decentralization of power. Your attention is focused on the fact that the previous hearings on this subject were held in 1998 — 18 years ago. What once again highlights the lack of proper attention in our society to the health of the nation? During his speech, the minister of sports and youth reported on the results of the ministry’s activities. Significant achievements have been made in the past and a half years by the executive body. But what's interesting. At the same time, the minister himself provided data from official sources on the terrible state of the nation’s health, the lack of motivation for physical culture among young people. About problems with the destruction of sports infrastructure, physical and sporting institutions, and as a result of job cuts in the field. The question is, Where is the logical link between successful government activity and catastrophicly low levels of public health, in fact the extinction of the population? On the other hand, I would like to point out that the health of the nation is the fundamental foundation of the country’s security, its economic prosperity and its future. This is a real opportunity to invest in social and sports infrastructure and then create jobs and tax revenue into the government budget. The representatives of the radical party have developed clear demands for authority on the development of physical culture and sport, which is part of a programme of radical, socio-economic reforms in the country. What exactly are we proposing? Ensuring priority for the development of the area of population activity, mass physical culture and sport and recovery, restoring the system of child and youth sport, introducing a balanced system of financing for physical and sports facilities, redistributing part of the fund's funds to the development of mass sport, measures to increase motor activity, measures to promote healthy lifestyles, and providing enough sport infrastructure to be sufficient. is available to all types of population. In order to implement the proposals of the Radical Party, we have addressed the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, interested central executives, the goal of decentralization to bring power closer to the people. I would like to believe that such slogans would prevent the authorities from covering themselves with the frank raiding and debasing of the sports infrastructure that remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna gives the word to Musia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you are traditionally very few in this room, and we are with you. And, dear Ukrainian people, I want to draw your attention to the two painful problems that this government of the world continues to face, which we can't put away. First. This is a huge lie about increasing pensions for our pensioners. I want to show you the answers of the Pension Fund to the so-called promotion and improvement of life that took place in Ukrainian pensioners last year and this year. Thus, no real increase in pensions took place in October, will take place after the Prime Minister's statement on an increase of 6 percent and the next month. Do you know what the Pension Fund is? I'll allow you to quote me. "According to the results of the recalculation, the pension has increased. However, the increase in pension was reduced by the amount of the indexation provided for by the cash indexation, approved by the Kabmin Order with amendments to 1078." That's why your pension hasn't changed. And that's the answer that all Ukrainian pensioners get. The real size of pensioners’ pensions does not change. So, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs, don't lie to the Ukrainian people, don't destroy Ukrainian pensioners. And the second. I would like to ask the MP from this rostrum about the discovery of a criminal case for impeding the activities of the National MP, this is 351 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I spoke with two MPs: first to the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 12 of January 26), and then to Mr. Kwiatashvili's Minister of Health (I will now tell you some 40 from February 26) with eleven specific questions about the adoption of last year's decree (1024), which provides for the reduction of hospital beds from 80 to 60. So you know what. The answer came to only two questions, not the answer, but the letter from Kambin, the Prime Minister, and the minister of Kvetashvili. It turns out that Kabmin led by Yatsenuk has usurped power in Parliament, we have you, and now he's printing, and as the mushrooms grow after the rain, he made such a change to the decree, to the Cabinet of Ministers Rules (725 out of 16.09), which, according to the regulations, does not provide for the introduction of an act on the Cabinet of Ministers without meeting the requirements of this regulation, without consent and consultation, without the legal expertise of the Ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u105	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u106	Do you have any idea what they were printing there, usurping power with you in the Ukrainian Parliament? So I demand the discovery of a criminal case against these two worlds. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u107	Artemenko Andriy Viktorovich gives Mosiyczuk the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u108	Dear Ukrainian Parliament! Dear Ukrainian people! Unfortunately, right now, literally a minute ago, there was a message coming from the Plains region of the Sarnen region that there was essentially fighting at the Galbin Memorial, essentially a new area of anti-terrorist operation. Why is that? And that's because illegal amber production, which is taking place in Plainland, Volin, Zitomirsk, and even in Kiev, is being "breathing" by members of the National Police. At a meeting of the Supreme Council's Committee on Law Enforcement, I reported and cited facts about the "breaking" of illegal amber production by the head of the Chugunikov Plains Authority, acting as Head of the National Police of Maximov, his deputy Zaslavski, Jephni. The whole country knows who "Uncle Fedor" is. I want the whole country to know. This is a citizen of Ivanicki, who is the godfather of Chugunnikov, the head of the ODA, who is the godfather of the procurator of the Plain region. And so the question arises: Who and why do they lead to war in the center of the country? At present, in some villages and populated areas there are even MANPADS and BTRs in people who are engaged in illegal amber mining. The Radical Party faction of Oleg Lášk requires the immediate convening of the National Security and Defence Council on this issue. We demand immediate separation from the responsibilities of the century. The National Police of Maximov and the heads of the provincial government of Chugunikov. We're talking to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is where you can show your character and demonstrate, really, the fight against corruption. As everyone knows, when they carry Chugunik's money, even they fall out of the balloons, all its employees talk about it. Finally, I would like to ask the government about the urgent need to ask questions about the degradation of the land that is now in the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u109	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u110	Academy of Sciences, State Enterprises, Penitentiary Service, Dusi, and others. As a matter of fact, there is a robbery.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please. And as long as Yuri Romanovich comes along, I just want to let you know, I can pull the speech back there for a few minutes, but actually I can still do Ryabchin, Marchenko and Korczyk. That's it. Who's next? No, two minutes in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u112	Dear voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u113	I'm sorry, I'll give you my word. I just want to let you know that by the time the two minutes are done, there's still two minutes left. Colleagues, one second, I give you my word, Yuri Romanovich. Colleagues, let's consult. Let's just finish for two minutes, what is it? Then with your permission, I only have one. Of course, Yuri Romanovich. Colleagues, I'm saying I can go on, but a lot of MPs in the room don't agree with that. Please. So I'm with you, I'm just consulting you, less emotionally, please take it. Come on, I'll act according to the Rules, then I won't be mistaken. Please speak, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. First of all, I want to remind society that tomorrow is the day we talk about people with autism. Let me support all those who have such individuals in their families, and all citizens are urged to be considerate, considerate of the autism. After all, God teaches us to love our neighbor and to support those in need. I would like to draw the attention of both the Parliament and the whole society to the problems of newborn children and their families. This is about the demographic security of Ukraine in the context of the deepening socio-economic crisis in Ukraine, which has been disastrously declining. Yes, according to the State Statistics Service, if 503,000 656 children were born in Ukraine in 2013, 38,000 fewer in 2014, and almost 92,000 fewer children in 2015 than in 2013. The natural decline in the population was 158,712 in 2013 respectively. In 2014, 8,000 more people died, and in 2015 almost 24,000 more people died than in previous years. Dear colleagues! The situation is very, very difficult, it's getting smaller, it's dying more and more people. What steps is being taken by the State? Real level of child birth assistance, taking into account high inflation rates in 2014-2015, devaluations of bracelets 3.5 times. As well as the nominal decline since July 1, 2014, several times the corresponding payouts for 2, 3 and subsequent children for many families with children raised questions about their physical survival. Many families are forced to postpone the birth of children, and this has already been disastrously reflected at birth in the last two years. A clear example of inappropriate State support, a real reverse witness is the issue of taxation of domestic production and the import into the customs territory of Ukraine of essential products and materials, such as diapers, diapers, diapers, food bottles, nipples, and deserts, and moist napkins, etc. Yes, on April 1, 2014, taxes are rising, prices for diapers are impossible. I've been approached by women, they say we can't buy diapers for a child, do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u115	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u116	There were no taxes on these goods in the past. Then they made 7 percent, now 20 percent. We can't afford that. We also prepared a parliamentary request to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I'm on my right as chairman for 10 minutes from the deputies for 10 minutes. I now invite you to the words of Rybčin Alexi Mihajlovich. He's handing Igor Lucenk over. You'd better come up and tell me in advance. Igor Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear friends, before I begin my speech, I would like to draw attention once again to this catastrophic situation that has now taken place in the territory of the Rhine region. According to my colleague Sergey Eutuska, I must inform you that there are actually fighting in this area now because the local police have completely removed their legal obligations, have gone down to the level of criminality, and are trying to share the fields of influence in amber production. The leader of the police, Mr. Harrison's running, the bandits are robbing our nature, they're robbing the state. What would I like to say now? I would like to inform all Ukrainian citizens, especially those who are involved in the defense of our country, who have finally made a historic decision by the Committee on Foreign Affairs: he has approved a project of many deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on breaking up, stopping diplomatic relations with Russia. This is a historic decision, because as soon as the President's Administration learned that such a decision would be taken by the committee, a tremendous opposition began. As soon as the Kremlin learned about it, they immediately commented that "we do not want this, Moscow, to continue diplomatic peace with Ukraine." Dear friends, there has been a practice for centuries that once one country acts as an aggressor in relation to another, the other is necessarily breaking up diplomatic relations with the aggressor. They are the Asians of the country who respect themselves. I'm sorry. Our country has not yet behaved, but it will certainly behave, because on Wednesday, and I thank the head of this committee, Annie Gopko, I thank my colleague from our faction, Mr. Tarasyuk, I thank all those internationalists, Mr. Vasilnik, who have consulted, who have helped to write the final text of this decree extremely professionally. And so far, there is no reason for us not to make that decision in the next few weeks, probably on a certain date. I urge the factions to vote in favour of this decision, because this will in no way affect our economic relationship with Russia, all the agreements continue to work, nor do the consular assistance to our citizens, the consular service continues to operate. There is only a middleman like Switzerland who will help our citizens there even more. Similarly, it will not affect the Minsk Treaties, which Ukraine de jure is not a party to. But this will help to destroy the Mexican propaganda that claims that we have civil war in the East, not Russian aggression. The end of diplomatic relations will completely destroy this myth. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u119	Marcenko Alexander Alexanderovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u120	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexander Marchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 90th Electoral District, Bila Church. It's not important to Ukrainians today, to ordinary citizens of the coalition that they go into. People of our own, ordinary people, pensioners are interested in simple living, survival in Ukraine in conditions of Ukrainian reality. And I'm addressing, first of all, the first leaders of both the government and the state to report, because there's a lot of informational reform, and the result is sad. I want to remind all the factions who are not present today, and I want to ask them to hand over to us all, to us, to the MPs, the Association of Cities with a problem that remains and remains unresolved. Parliament has performed its functions. Dear Peter Alexiovich! Please sign the Chernobyl Bill. Number 2093. We're gonna miss the 30th anniversary of Chernobyl this year. Peter Alexiyovich, please sign a bill on the course. Volodymyr Borisovich, I urge you, on behalf of the Association of Cities, to re-examine the President's veto legislation on vocational and technical education, today's terrible situation, everyone understands. We have nothing to go to the region with today. Here a colleague spoke of stealing the land, a terrible situation. Vladimir Borisovich, Bill 3510, not only will he remove the corrupt component of stealing the land today, he will help municipal communities create infrastructure investment projects, it will ensure that jobs are preserved in the field today, and this must be done. I'm talking to the Minister of Energy, the boy from the NCREKP, today from April 1st, we're launching a subscription to gas devices, societies, hear, terrible communal genocide for the sake of the oligarchs, and today that society that's left in this room, the honorable society, we're already paying the monopolies. And I am confident today that not only Parliament will report to the people of Ukraine, but every government official and president will report to the government. Why? Because success in war, victory in war depends on how children of fighters on the front are cared for in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u121	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u122	They're taking care of the garden, the school, the PTU, the tech, the university. I'm sure people are forcing the authorities to report. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the closing act. Corchik Vitaly Andriyovich handed over the right to speak to Hennadia Kryvoshea, and this will be the final performance of today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you first and thank you for raising the subject of illegal amber. Why? Because, first of all, it was quite right that my previous colleague said that we really need to introduce a bill here right now and vote it fast enough. Because it's not just giving authority to the territorial communities, it's not just coming to the budgets, it's going to be a constructive, sub-constructive basis for resolving this situation. Now, according to statements made by other deputies regarding the inaction, the possible inaction of the National Police. In fact, the militias themselves are among past workers who are now quite active in doing so. But the police, the new police, are tasking themselves, and today they stand for the very honor of their posts and uniforms, primarily as the new police. And this is confirmed, first of all, by the decision. And after Mr. Mosiyczuk's appeal to the committee two days ago, the Ministry of the Interior was instructed to send a proper one. an appropriate reference to the PNB, to the Secretary of the PNB in order to be heard. appropriate hearings on the subject. The question is quite topical, there is a problem. And that's a matter of national security first. Today, there is actually a misunderstanding as to what the police can actually do. And in order to preserve the very calm state and situation, to avoid what is happening today, the shooting, when everyone gets hit, whether it's a police officer or a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Prosecutor's Office, or even the heads and representatives of the local authorities. We have to settle this legally, because today, punishment is just a fine for you illegally extracting this amber. It's our parish again. Dear friends, I would also like to point out that today, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's been a service inspection, and we're going to get the result, and we're going to get the result, whether those results were actually involved by some police representatives, or whether they were actually past, past authorities and representatives of the police authorities themselves. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the police, as well as the foreign service, the Ukrainian Security Service, should consider that a number of measures are being taken to remove illegal amber. Literally to you, two days ago, 200 kilos of amber was removed in warehouses. Is that a fact? Yes. We're every actual day, well, we're confirming colleagues, these are the facts that workers have to fight. But law enforcement officials do the work they need to do. But here we need to be united. We need to work together. And quite faithfully we say, quite truthfully, let us sit together not just at the negotiating table, but understand what law we need. To set clear requirements then constructively for the law that has been passed that is to be done. If even an army is needed, the police. And what the Ukrainian Security Service needs to do, and we're with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-01-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At that time, the speeches of the national MPs "out of various questions" are exhausted, just as our deadline has been exhausted for today. Let me remind you that people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions next week. On April 6th, at 3 p.m., a parliamentary hearing will be held in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine". We passed a number of important laws this week. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will now take place on Tuesday 12 April at 10 a.m. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
