ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow officers, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we move on to registration? Is everyone in place yet? The factions. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration and register now. Please register. [[10:06:45.]] There are 264 deputies registered. The morning session, not the morning, but the next session, I declare open. In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now open. Colleagues, I want to read the announcements that have come to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Transparency of Europe" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rybczynski Evgen Yuriovich, was elected head of this association. We welcome Eugene Yuriovich. And, dear fellows. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received an application from the High Council of Justice for the release of judges on the basis of a violation of an oath. And with your permission, I'm going to give the floor first to the head of the Knyazevitch Committee and the High Council of Justice of Benedisuk Igor Mikhajlovich to bring us into the general course of action on this issue. There is a special procedure on these issues, and we will proceed to it after a report by the chairman of the committee and a report by the head of the High Council of Justice. First of all, I would like to invite the head of the Committee of Prince Ruslan to the floor for three minutes. He'll be out of place, and please turn on his microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Since there have been a huge number of insinuations in the press for several days now around today, I think on behalf of the committee and from the Supreme Council I am obliged simply to clarify the situation. First of all, I must say that the idea of holding this meeting came from the fact that an article by Mr. Gernakov's so-called "Reanimation Package of Reforms" appeared on one of the websites. Then this idea was captured by one of the factions of Parliament, forced to react to it by the President, and now we are forced to hold today's session. In this regard, I have a very simple and clear question. Friends, why did we change the Constitution? I remind you that according to the changes in the Constitution that are in force tomorrow, these powers will be transferred to the High Council of Justice precisely because Parliament has voluntarily refused them so that no one will allow himself to be accused of having a political influence in deciding whether to release or elect judges. It is said that there will be no further legal basis because the Constitution is changing, and the legal basis that has been applied – the breach of an oath – will no longer be in the next Constitution. That's true. We deliberately changed the Constitution to a new norm because we lost a few decisions in the European Court of Human Rights precisely because the breach of an oath is not a common practice in the European Union. And we've now changed this rule to a standard: attention! – "the gross disregard of duties which is incompatible with the status of the judge or has revealed his inadequacy with the position taken." This is the norm that must be applied when the courts are released. Moreover, in the new edition of the Higher Justice Council Act, which was recently introduced, including the proposal of the High Council of Justice in Transitional Positions, the mechanism for applying this very new rule during the next release of judges. So the Supreme Council of Justice itself confirms that it has such powers, and it can fall into a new norm as the most correct one. Next. We have some of the judges that are being considered today, and they should not be considered on this legal basis at all, because they have been made on the basis of incompatibilities with the position taken. And this standard of the Constitution, as it was, remains in the new constitution. The other part is the old judges who are still represented by the Supreme Council of Justice at Yanukovich. And you remember that we tried to look at them several times, and the session board refused to release them because of what had already occurred in both the committee and the session, that they were judges who were politically persecuted by the former regime and were forced to make illegal decisions, and they refused to do so. Now we want to free them for this. Next. Why the Supreme Council did not vote. But because the vast majority of the decisions of the High Council of Justice that we have to make today have been overturned by the courts or are now in the courts. And we didn't have the opportunity to make a legal decision, so we had to wait properly until this legal conflict was resolved. Another reason that might be quite interesting right now. You remember, according to the Bible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u3	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u4	According to the Rules, the presence of a judge at a meeting is mandatory. If the judge does not appear again, then he can be considered without him. If they have not come to the meetings now, and those who have come have the right to do so, those who have not come will, of course, sue the decision. And finally, my friends. Who is Mr. Gernakov? A very interesting person who appears to be a great illustrator in the judiciary. We picked up documents on this person, and it turns out that in 2012 this person was appointed Yanukovitch as Judge of the Winnick District Administrative Court. And it worked so hard to carry out the tasks of authority that in 2013 it was recommended to the Kyiv District Administrative Court in order to carry out certain tasks, two weeks before Maidan, by a decision of the Higher Qualification Commission. We remember why the judges were there. And now these people are complaining, I'm sorry, that he's not following Maidan's ideas. The truth is, who's the judge? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. We know the position of the committee. And actually, the position is that when there are legal disputes, it can look not like a legal one, but like a political legal one. And actually, for that reason, in your position, I didn't ask this question in the last few weeks. However, Mr. Ruslane, head of the committee, we have received a request from the President of Ukraine, and under this requirement I have been obliged as Head of the Supreme Council to convene meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to put these issues up for consideration. So now we have 34 orders for the release of judges, and we have to go through each of these orders and make a decision. And today is the last day of the Constitution, and we must go through this process. And now I give the floor to explain, not to consider the ruling, but to explain, to the head of the High Council of Justice of Benedisuk Igor Mikhailovich. Igor Mikhailovich, to the rostrum. Please, Igor Mihajlovich, 3 minutes report on the issue in general, and then we will move on to each decision separately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u6	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! For the first time in this rostrum, I'm actually addressing you with such a request that for more than two years we've been accusing the court of not self-cleaning. You know, before the law on ensuring the right to a fair trial was passed, on restoring confidence in the judicial system, we had no such mechanisms. After that, the Higher Council of Justice, which has been in operation for over a year, has been established, and during this period a number of decisions have been made that are proposed today to confirm to you. It will be difficult for me to explain, in particular, to my colleagues why such a decision has not been made. For a year, a temporary special commission worked on these materials. After that, I've already said that for over a year the Higher Council of Justice has been working, and I've been looking at these materials. After that, for almost a year some submissions have been made in the High Council. in the Supreme Council. Therefore, it will be very difficult to say that in the three years that the judiciary has done nothing. So I ask you with the responsibility to respond to today's vote and conduct it properly. What else can I say? No decision you are asked to vote on today has been overturned in the final version. Yes, there is a ruling by the administrative court that appealed the decision of the High Council of Justice, but they are all accused, i.e. invalidated. And to date, some decisions have been supported by the Supreme Court, and another part of the Supreme Administrative Court has been cancelled and referred to a new hearing. Therefore, the decision of the High Council of Justice today to propose the release of judges for breach of oath is valid and there is no warning that we do not vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u7	Thank you. Igor Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, moves on to the first decision. I think you should stay in the rostrum. As comfortable as you are, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u8	I'd be more comfortable with the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u9	Out of the way. Please, we'll wait. Thus, the first Order 3581 on the release of a judge is being considered. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Ovcharenko Natalija Grigorovna from the position of judge of the Kirov District Court of Dniepra in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. I want to tell everyone what the procedure is. It is spoken to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice. Then the judge is given the floor if she attends the plenary. Then it takes six minutes for questions and answers from deputies. And then we go to the vote. Such an examination of a special procedure by judges. And I give the floor up to three minutes to the High Council of Justice of Benedisuk Igor Mikhailovich under Order 3581. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u10	I would like to point out that this decision was taken by the High Council of Justice on December 10, 2013. It was then introduced to Parliament on January 29, 2014. After that, she returned to the High Council of Justice. Unfortunately, we do not have a legislative mechanism to review these decisions under certain circumstances. But we have reviewed this decision -- and there is no reason not to vote on it today. The ordinary infringements of the judge were properly established, and there was such an offer by the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u11	Thank you. There's no judge in the hall. So let's move on to the following point: the question to the reporter. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to ask a question, please sign in. Head of the committee, give your word? Excuse me, excuse me. Head of the committee. Now the head of the committee, and then the recording of the speech, on the question. Turn on Ruslan Knyazevich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u12	Colleagues, this is one of the judges we've already considered in the session room. Why did we return to the Council of Justice? Because, as the head of the High Council of Justice just said. The decision of this judge was taken by the Superior Council of Justice of the previous composition – one that we have promulgated by the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary We remember this story when Judge Ovcharenko and Judge Hodasevich were two judges of the Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska, we found out on the committee and the session hall, they refused to carry out the commission of one of the curators of the former judiciary. And they were told that "we will find a basis to release you, because in our hands the Superior Council of Justice had a previous calling." That's what happened. For other reasons, they were released. In principle, it was recommended. We have tried and voted twice. So we turned to the High Council of Justice to look more carefully and more carefully at the reasons that have been applied. Unfortunately, the Higher Council of Justice has returned because they do not have a legal review mechanism. Well, you want to, let's fire. But we are actually punishing those judges who were in position during the Yanukovich regime. Now, as it were, we hunt them down and cut them in the back for, in principle, refusing to follow criminal orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record the question. Please sign up. Thank you. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u14	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u15	Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u16	The judge imprisoned the courtmen. Or, rather, the people who were caught near Maidan because they were afraid to come in on Maydan Berkut and the police. The speaker remembers this well. I don't know what the head of the Council's legal committee might be talking about right now. If there's a question here, it's different. In total, about three hundred judges participated in the repressions of Eromaydan in prison, interrogation, and banning our peaceful meetings. Where are the more than 270 judges? Why are they still in office? Why, in positions of head of the courts, who allowed and organized these judgments. If you look at the material, the judge who imprisoned the court has a fine feature of the workplace. We have to go there, put them before the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u17	The answer to the questions. Who asked that question, who will answer that question? One minute is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u18	Well, what Sobolev doesn't know how to read, it's a familiar question, and I don't have any. But, my friends, it's about a judge who made a decision before Maidan, a year before Maidan. You look at at least what year it is. Guys, let's not even bring ourselves in or embarrass ourselves in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u19	I am very much asking for personal images and experiences not to be used in the discussion. I give the word of Jooffe Yuliy Yakovich. To the Boy Scouts, please, please, Yuri Boyko. Mr. Yuri, your microphone is off. Please put the card down. You can talk now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u20	Our faction supported changes in its time to the system that started changes in the judicial system. But we see that once again the Supreme Council is involved in the political field, because no legislative act has been carried out that would give rise to the judicial system in the right and the right direction. And I have a question for the Chief Justice Council. It's clear that you're going to do the task of power right now, and they say you're going to give everyone a spear to the difference. But what are the chances that tomorrow this judge, who today will be released from a violation of the Constitution, the law, will not go to the European Court and the state of Ukraine will not compensate for moral and material damage for being released from a breach of legislation? Are you ready to answer for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u21	Please, Igor Mikhailovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u22	I would like to say that all the decisions that are proposed before the vote today have been followed by an appropriate procedure in the High Council of Justice. And I'm willing to say that the High Council of Justice has followed this procedure. Whether the members of the Supreme Council will fulfill their duties, we will see today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u23	Hope Anna Mikolayevna. Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u24	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that I believe that all the judges who make the release orders today in connection with the breach of an oath must be released. And it is the responsibility of the Supreme Council to vote in favour. Secondly, I want to point out that the High Council of Justice has made the appropriate decisions regarding the release of these judges some six months ago, after another year. According to the judge we are currently considering, the decision was taken at the end of the 13th year, and the Supreme Council's ruling was registered in 03.12.2015. Why the Supreme Council couldn't get together sooner, and actually in nine months, it's not clear. But I hope that, for the time being, the people's deputies will consolidate and vote absolutely in all the judges and finally release them for breaking their oaths. Because they simply cannot and do not have the right to go to court and make decisions in the name of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u25	Is there an answer to that question? I just want to say for Mrs. Victoria. Mrs. Victoria! Mrs. Victoria, can you hear me or not? There had already been a challenge for this judge to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and no decision had been taken at that time. It's Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u26	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. I have a question for the head of the High Council of Justice. Dear colleagues, there is nothing more shameful than generalization. Each decision is made by a specific person and has a specific history. And if we generalize it, it's a parliamentary disaster. I'd like to ask the head of the High Council of Justice. You don't have a mechanism to reverse the decision of the previous body that you are currently in charge of at Yanukovich. If you were to now consider this question, would it be appropriate to make an adequate decision on Ovcharenko, since we remember that all disgruntled judges as a tool to free them have been used by the Superior Council of Justice of the previous calling? It was this judge who was released or released from prison in that disgraceful warehouse. And I'd like the MPs to hear the argument and I'd like you to give it to me, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u27	Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u28	That's all I want to say. In fact, we do not have a mechanism to review decisions that even we make in this warehouse, such mechanisms are not provided for by legislation. But after the Parliament was returned to the High Council of Justice, in particular to the judge who is now being proposed to vote, we checked him, that decision, and found no reason not to bring him to the Supreme Council again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u29	So, dear colleagues, it's time for discussion. Okay. I'll give Krivenka and Yemen two speeches, colleagues, two speeches, two questions. And let's move on to making a decision. Germany and Germany. Okay. Three more questions. The first is Krivenko, then Germany, then Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u30	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Colleagues, unpunished wickedness, self - indulgent. Remember with you how Janukovic planted and defiled the people, and that is exactly what Mr. Sobolev says, until these 300 judges are punished until all the police are punished, this will continue throughout Ukraine. We see it in Odessa. Last night, at 3:00 a.m., they burned down my mobile reception hall. Here some claim that they do not have the right to put mobile receptionist deputies. It's supposed to put a moving tent on any citizen, including the national MPs. During Maidan, there was a sign on every tent that said, "The People's Deputy's Admission." Two meetings of peace in Odessa. Where is the government’s response? Where is the reaction of the Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the President of Ukraine? Not set. Obstruction of tents, intimidation of ordinary people, intimidation of MPs. Therefore, these decisions must be supported as quickly as possible and not stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u31	Thank you. We'll consider it a performance, not a question. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'd like to ask the Head of the High Council of Justice about the documents -- I'm here -- about the documents presented for the verdict on the release of judges. First. As he relates, reports of meetings and plenary meetings of the Supreme Council were sent yesterday, i.e. it was a day and a half ago, and the Rules of Procedure Act, article 216 with the "prim" badge. provides for a minimum of three years to allow for the protection of a loved one who has been asked the question. And the second. I'd like to hear what the High Council of Justice is looking at, which refers to the fact that everything here is concrete, that there are no judges, and there's no judge from.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u34	Ten seconds. There's no judge. It's a violation of the Constitution and a violation of the Rules Act. So who are we after this?Oh, my God! I want to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u35	Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u36	Unfortunately, I cannot comment on your decision on the implementation of the Rules is your procedure, and you have to make it your own, decision. As for the absence of judges, I'll tell you, this is not about the judge you're going to vote on right now, it's about the judge you're going to vote on. No judge at the first meeting of the High Council of Justice, which dealt with their questions -- and there were at least four of them -- did appear. They were sick, they found other reasons, and only then did they appear when there was nowhere else to go. That's why they didn't show up here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u37	Thank you. I will complete and say that Ovčarenko Natalia Grigorovna has already been called to a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that this question has already been considered. Instead of making a decision, we returned the application to the Higher Council of Justice. The question was on the table, it was raised. When he does not come again, the Supreme Council may consider without the presence of a judge. Dear colleagues, there will be a final question from the Yemeni. Accordingly, in two minutes, we will move on to making a decision. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Now, for the sake of question, I give the word of Leonid to Yemen. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. Leonid Jemetz, the city of Kiev, the People's Front. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Justice and Legal Policy has different positions, and part of the deputies fully supports the initiative of the President of Ukraine, who, under article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has initiated today's meeting with the only question of the agenda: the release of judges who have broken oaths and for whom there is an appropriate decision of the High Council of Justice. We believe that the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, has fully confirmed the constitutionality of the relevant submissions and the possibility of considering them. And the High Council of Justice confirmed to us that it was already in the new warehouse that it reviewed the application that was made specifically by this judge, and it supported that position. And as for other judges who committed crimes in the name of Ukraine, by inciting innocent people to cassettes according to political instructions, the decision of the Supreme Council must be instantaneous and unequivocal. We were entrusted with the question of punishing these criminals in mantiacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u40	Thank you. Who ignore the laws that they have to protect themselves. And I will answer Mr. German. Two of them were present to attend the meeting of the Supreme Council. Sorry, two days from Australia, you can reach the city of Kiev. The news was broadcast on all media channels, not every day a single one - time meeting is held. If you want to cover up your appointments, then I'm sorry, this game of yours is completely conscious and understood by all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u41	Thank you. The question is answered by Knazević, and let us move on to making a decision. Colleagues, we'll be over in a minute before the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u42	I don't know what to say here. Leonid Alexanderovich is the first deputy head of the committee, and at the committee meeting, we set up the circumstances of the case. I'll tell you what's going on. The point is that in 2011 the judge collected the debt, according to the Board of Justice, in an illegal amount of 250 dollars. That is why she was punished by her former High Council of Justice. And when we, Leonid Aleksandrovitch, on the committee, unanimously recommended not to fire her. I'm sorry you just forgot that story. But the question to the session room, if you want to formally consider and punish even those judges who were punished by the Yanukovich regime for having a position, is a political issue. Please be sure that the committee will not object to such consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u43	Thank you. Fellow dignitaries were named in the report. It predicts a replica. 30 seconds, Germany, for the lineup. And please come into the hall, colleagues. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u44	I would like to report that the speaker who was carrying this nonsense about the terms, on television and everything else, contradicts article 216 of the Rules Act. Give him three days to get a message from the judge. Three! And you sent it out the other night after 6:00. You don't have to have knowledge in 1+1 or 3+2. That's what we're talking about! Infringement of the law i.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u45	Colleagues, please come into the hall. Don't go out. I see people coming out there. Colleagues, invite us to the MPs' room. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Please, colleagues! Mr. Maxim Burbak, as soon as the two deputies are out the back, please invite them to the hall. Ready to make a decision, colleagues? Ready. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to release Judge Ovcharenko Natalija Grigorovna from the position of judge of the Kirov District Court of Dniepra in connection with the violation of the oath (No. 3581). Those who support this decision, colleagues, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[10:37:16]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 60, National Front – 46, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 22, Father's Day – 11, Radical Party Laska – 0, Rebirth – 0, "Will of the People" – 2. It's a non-adopted decision. But before moving to the next decision, I was asked to take a break from two factions, from the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland faction, but they agree to replace the three-minute pause from the rostrum. I'm asking everyone to stay put. This will be followed by a follow-up: the following decisions. And may I invite you to the presentation, who will be speaking? Oleg Valeriyovich, please, Oleg Valeriyovich. And then let's move on to the next decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, today 75th anniversary as Germans, the fascists shot our people in Kiev in Baba's Jar: Ukrainians, Jews, Gypsies, Russians, Red Armys, Ounians, underworlders, saboteurs, so-called commanders, and all our other people who have been the victims of Hitler and Stalin's plot. Sadly, this grand anniversary of the great tragedy is deeply saddened by the event. Two days ago, the president of Israel said that the Ukrainians were involved in the killings of the Jews. We strongly deny such statements, we believe that the relationship between the two nations should be based on mutual respect and mutual understanding. We believe that similar statements from the highest parliamentary rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, which are accused of killing Jews by Ukrainians, are a humiliation to both Ukrainians and our Jewish brothers. We're talking about the fact that murderers, criminals, Nazis don't have nationalities, they're people who have to be held accountable for their crimes, no matter who. from when these crimes were committed. The Ukrainian Parliament recognized the Holocaust of the Jewish people in 2008. The Ukrainian Parliament has always shown respect and support for the Jewish people in its decisions. We are counting on the same attitude of the Jewish leaders toward the Ukrainian people. I want to remind you that the Israeli Knesset has not yet declared the Holocaust a genocide, although we have repeatedly referred to all levels of Israel’s leaders. I would like to remind you that in March 2014, Israel, unfortunately, did not vote in favour of the UN General Assembly in favour of Ukraine's territorial integrity. We're talking to the friendly Ukraine of the State of Israel: understanding, mutual respect, mutual reconciliation -- this is the foundation on which the relationship between our two countries should be based. Humiliation, insults, and the spread of encavedist myths are damaging to this friendship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. The statement for the break was from the Radical Party and Self-Help. The Fatherland faction, I'm sorry, was from two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party. I mistakenly called the "Fatherland" faction, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next decision. This is Order 3581-1: the release of Judge Pirozhenek Alexander Volodymyrovich from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. He's in the hall, colleagues. So we can listen to both the judge and ask him a question. Igor Mikhailovich, do you need a word? Does the judge give his word now? Then, dear fellows, I give my word first to the judge and then to the head of the committee. So I invite Judge Pirozenko Alexander Volodymyrovich to speak. Three minutes. Alexander Volodymyrovich! Are you from the rostrum or from the rostrum? Do you want to speak from the rostrum or from the rostrum? Are you going to come out of the rostrum or out of the rostrum? You need to turn on the microphone. Please take your seats, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u48	Good afternoon! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm standing right here. It is not for the treachery of the Fatherland in front of you. I had nothing to do with the condemnation of Majdan's activists. From. The application was initiated by the previous High Council in the 13th year. I feel that this was in connection with it. With my position in Crimea when I was there talking about the Mayan people with higher legal education "fucked up," "banderlogs," "What were our grandfathers fighting for?".. Do you understand? And when I was offered to take the flag out of the office in early March, I was forced to leave. Yes, I understand that I've made a decision, it's overturned by the Court of Appeal. I can't make any more comments here. Moreover, on November 12, 2015, the motion was voted down and the result of your vote was rejected. I'm sorry, there's nothing more to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u49	The reporter completed the report. Now Ruslan Knyazevich, head of the committee. And then the question to the reporter. Please, Mr. Ruslan. Turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u50	Well, it's almost the same thing. We've already looked at it in the session room, I'll remind you. We then refused to support the application of the Superior Council of Justice of the previous warehouse, since it was adopted in 2012. Specially for the Head of the Anti-Corruption Committee, 2012! The point is that this judge. Do you remember why they refused? Because this is the only judge who moved from Crimea to Ukraine, and then the session hall decided that it was wrong to punish him for the Yanukovic regime's decision at all. I'd like to make a statement. I am not allowed to press on the position of Parliament right now, but I am calling attention to it again. Friends, it's not about all the judges who have a bearing on Maidan. Most of them are judges who made decisions at Maidan. Usually in the period 2011-2012. Please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record the interview. Please. Dubinin Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u52	I'd like to give the floor to Kupri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u53	I'd like to ask you some questions, Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch. You know, I heard it yesterday and on TV, and I couldn't understand why we were all assembled on the last day of the Supreme Council. We were told that we would decide to release the judges who had broken our oath. And now I understand from his statement that we've just come together to use, we're going to be used on the show to, for example, leave them in positions and justify them. I think it's unacceptable, it's either now being carried out by the President's Administration and getting hand-directed judges, or the bribe you got and it's being worked out here. Please answer, why are you defending judges, violators of oaths? None of them had been tried before the European Court of Justice, claiming that he had been illegally released. What are you doing? They didn't fire you, they released you. They did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u54	Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u55	I don't understand who I'm protecting. Maybe the MP didn't listen. I just noticed that this is not about the judge of the Maidan period, it's about the 2011-2012 period, and I pointed out that in the session room this question had already been raised and the session room refused to support, including you not voting because it was the judges who were punished during the Janukovich period. That's all I said. But I have no objection, on the contrary, to having the session room consider and make the appropriate decision, as provided by the Constitution. Please do not be misled, and we need to find out who else is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u56	Thank you. Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u57	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, for those who argue the need not to release the judges by the fact that the application was filed with Yanukovic. Excuse me, if one of the bandits is filing for the release of another bandit, it doesn't mean that this other bandit doesn't turn out to be a bandit. He's still a bandit. Therefore, there is a need to examine the specific facts that prompt the judges to be released, not who made the application, and not when it was done — whether at Yanukovich or at Kuchma or at Krawczuk or at some other time. And on that point, I'd like to ask the judge, because, personally, as a national MP, I didn't hear it. Please, Your Honor, I am sincerely addressing you right now. Explain, please, to the entire country, which decision has been given to the High Council of Justice? Because you didn't say that. Well, I'm personally curious to hear that from you. Listen to the fullest possible information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u58	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u59	My decision was made in 2012. The decision involved immovable property. And according to the Court of Appeal, the rules of jurisdiction were violated. On the 13th year, right after my position in Crimea, expressed in all, there was not only a referral to the High Council, but immediately after that fact, they brought a criminal case into the Single Register of Forensic Investigations, well, they violated the criminal case. This case has been under investigation since the 13th year. When I left Crimea, when I left Crimea, I was temporarily attached for the second year to the court of the Kyiv region, and did not perform any functions. I cannot comment on the decision of the Court of Appeal that annulled my decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u60	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u61	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. When it comes to the release of judges, it is vital to follow procedure and legality. I have a procedure, a rule and a rule of law right now. Please tell me, what was not to be done on the other day? One day before the start of judicial reform, where do we voluntarily hand over all powers to another body? That's the first one. The other one. Judges may not walk, nor will they walk when released. I'm in the head of the High Council of Justice. You are bound by the law to obey and to warn them in three days, you have not done so. But I want to thank you for one thing that you're taking responsibility for today's session, because you said you weren't going to comment on the Rules, so you see that there's a violation. And everyone heard, you can see from the transcript. I have to see the chairman. You said that today's next session is being held at the request of the President, the President demands. And now it is either the President has violated the Constitution or you have spoken. Condemn or confirm. He cannot demand of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u62	Thank you. I'll answer the question. So, colleagues, you've heard the head of the committee who warned on the previous sessional week that the decision was not ready. And it was from the committee's point of view that this decision was not made. That's the first answer. Next question. According to the Rules there are three mandatory requirements, preconditions for the convening of an extraordinary session: the first is a written statement of 150 deputies and a session is to be convened within three days; the second is a requirement of the Conciliation Council in its entirety; and the third is a requirement, a letter from the President of Ukraine. When this requirement is sent to the Supreme Council within three days, the Supreme Council is obliged to hold a meeting. And as Head of the Supreme Council on the basis of that letter, he actually convened a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. So, Ednak Ostap Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u63	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u65	I want to remind everyone in this room that the judges are subject to dismissal not only those who have brought cases against Maidan but those who have simply violated the norms of procedural and material law. The decision of the High Council of Justice refers to this judge as violating the rules of procedural and material law during the civil proceedings that led to violations of the rights, freedoms, and legitimate interests of conscientious tenants of contested apartments. I would like to ask the head of the High Council of Justice to explain again and to comment on whether there has really been a violation of the rules of submission. the defendants, I apologize, and in general, what the violation is, so that the national MPs can determine which decision to make during this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u66	Thank you. I will now give my word to Igor Mikhailovich. But I want to inform you that in one minute there will be a decision, I ask all the deputies to come into the hall. And I give the word Igor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u67	I can only say that after these decisions were returned from Parliament to the High Council of Justice, we have reviewed them as to whether there is a political element. I can only confirm that there is no political element. Common violations, the judge was called to account. This decision was reviewed by the Court and, even in this case, the Supreme Court refused to review the ruling of the administrative court, which refused. All of it. And with regard to the Supreme Council Rules, I can answer to the honourable MP that the Supreme Council is not challenged by the Supreme Council, if you know, but we only call the judges when we're looking at their cases, and that's where these terms are kept.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u68	Thank you. Igor Mikhailovich gave an answer and we can move on to making a decision. Colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, please come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Order to release Judge Pirozhenka Alexander Wolodymirovich from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in connection with the violation of the oath of a judge (No. 3581-1). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:54:35]] For 133 The decision is not made. And we're moving on to the next decision. This is Order 3581-2 on the release of Judge Reva Sergio Viktorovich from the office of Judge of the Kyiv District Court of Odessa in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Is there a judge present? No, the judge is not present. And I give the word of Benedict Igor Mikhailovich. Please. Let's take a minute, give us a minute, a minute to report, and then we'll have a minute to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u69	This is also a decision that was made in the previous composition of the High Council of Justice. We also reviewed it and came to the same conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record the question. Please record. Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u71	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I am now addressing, in particular, the head of the Parliament of Mr. Andriy Paruba. I have a strong impression that we are now participants in a show that is being played throughout the country where the Supreme Council was specifically convened, and we were specially appointed at the beginning of a judge, so let's say 50 by 50, someone here can talk, right? To show you what you see right now, there are no votes, and the rest of the bad guys, the special cynical bastards, are left in positions. We can see that there are no voices now. Then I appeal to you, Mr. Head, I call you sincerely, please put to the vote the appropriate rulings on the approval of judges for life. And let's reject these orders, the 700 judges, because there are no votes. This is the perfect time to reject those rulings and really start by reforming the judicial system -- to clean up 700 judges. Let's do this now so it doesn't have to be a spectacle.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u72	Mr. Yuri, I can only ask questions about registration. And notice, I'm putting them the way they were registered, and the numbers show this: 3581, 3582. And every decision will go in number, Mr. Yuri. And before you make any similar accusations, just pay attention and tell me if I have a different way of following. Do I have a different way of following? Because if I started in a different way, you'd be the first to go up and say that they're in the order in which the Head of the Supreme Council manipulates. Thus, according to the regulations that have been registered, it does. And I'll tell you one more thing, Mr. Yuri. We can only deal with the issue that has been stated, the release of judges. As you know from the Rules, there are no other questions in the next meeting except those claimed. You're the biggest fan of the Rules all the time, and now you're calling on me to violate it. Do you agree with me? Agree with me. Thank you. So, Dubinine Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u73	My colleague got ahead of me, and I wanted to propose the same thing in principle. I will make a few clarifications on the new issue of voting. I propose that we now put to the vote the question of closing an extraordinary session and consider all these submissions on a normal working day when all the votes are cast.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u74	Colleagues, I want to let you know that today is the last day -- I emphasize -- of the last day that we can make decisions. The only thing we can do, colleagues, we can do more intensive consideration. That's what we can do. I can give you two minutes, not six minutes. Then we'll get to the oatmeal judges. If there's general support for the hall, colleagues. See: we can limit the performance for 30 seconds, we can limit the discussion to one minute to the fact of the discussion. And that'll make our work more intense, and we'll get to those judges faster. Colleagues, do you agree? I don't need a vote, I can do that by my own decision. Is there a general agreement? Then, with your permission, I will limit the discussion. But now I'm asking you one last question – Debenkov, last one. And then it's a reduced procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u75	This meeting is a testimony to the farce and cynicism of this authority. The opposition bloc supported the President's initiative on judicial reform in the hope of reforming the judiciary, making it more independent of, inter alia, this politically motivated body. In the Supreme Council, there are many factions, many political movements, and, sadly, each makes his statements not on the basis of a well - founded study of the situation, not even in these circumstances, but on the basis of his political slogans. We can't make decisions about every particular judge in this room, because it takes a kind of professionality, a primate, to be involved by professionals, not politicians, who aren't even law professionals in their majority (this is not demeaning the dignity, indeed, of the lawyers who are in this room). So please do not have to make these decisions unconstitutional, because from tomorrow, making these decisions will be illegal. The violation of an oath by a judge is strictly subjective.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Okay, Kishkar, last question. During that time, please enter the hall, please enter the hall, take your seats. Please, Kishkar, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u77	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I understand that it is very convenient for individual national deputies to retain these judges in their posts right now. Because if we don't release them today, all the cases, I want to inform you that they will be handed back, the return of the High Council of Justice, and as of tomorrow, there will be no basis for the release of judges who will "break an oath". And then, accordingly, the Superior Council of Justice will be unable to make a quick decision on it, it will be obliged to re-examine, and in this time the judges who have broken an oath will make a decision on behalf of Ukraine and do so - called justice. I would like to point out to this judge that the decision of the Supreme Council of Justice that he stated in the declaration on property, income, expenditure and financial obligations knowingly false information, that he allowed a number of deliberate violations of substantive procedural law when dealing with civil administrative matters, and that he did not adhere to the rules of judicial ethics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u80	in the courts and outside the administration of justice, violation of the employment order. This is precisely what the High Council of Justice decides. If you think that this judge can go to work and make decisions on the name of Ukraine, please fail this decision again. And if you have a little conscience, let us release the judge and fulfill our obligations and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote Order (3581-2) on the release of Judge Reva Sergio Viktorovich from office as judge of the Kyiv District Court of Odessa in connection with the violation of the judge's oath. Not yet, just a second. Please take up jobs, colleagues. Is everyone in place yet? Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[11:03:24]] For 199 Colleagues, can we have a chance to come back? Let's do factions. [[Noise Nodes]] By factions, if there's a chance, I'll put it back. Colleagues, let's get as many as we can. According to factions: "Clock of Peter Poshenko" – 83, "National Front" – 42, "Occupy Block" – zero, "self-help" – 23, "Fathership" – 14, "Laska Faction" – 12, "Party of Rebirth" – zero, "Will of the People" – 3. Let me put it back once, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again: do you have a chance to come back? I, my colleagues, will tell you such a thing that we can now bring our deputies together. There are only 25 votes missing. What if we started the discussion and then the vote? Would there be any objection, colleagues, if we discussed it and then voted? You're in, right? There will be no objection in the hall: first the discussion and then the vote? In the meantime, we will be able to bring together deputies, colleagues. Call MPs, yeah, call MPs. So 3581 is discussed. Let's put it to a vote. 3581-2 is rejected. Let's move on to the next one, I would like to stress, after a brief discussion. Thus, 3581-3: Hodasevich Oleg Volodymirovich is to be dismissed from office as judge of the Kirov District Court of Dniepra in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u82	The decision concerning Hodasevic was taken by the Higher Council of Justice on November 26, 2013, which is still in its previous composition. Also, for breaking an oath, he is offered to be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u83	Knazevitch. There's no need. One minute to discuss. I'll record it for discussion. Please record. Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u84	Please hand over Vicky the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, once again, in the decision of the High Council of Justice, it follows that a judge who was competent to deal with civil and criminal matters has decided to deal with a case that belongs to the jurisdiction and is the prerogative of the courts of commerce. He considered the dispute between the two shareholders and accordingly violated the rights of the other shareholders who owned the company there. And it actually happened, I take it, some sort of raiding patterns because of the decision. Why did the judge violate his jurisdiction? Either he's unqualified or something's happened to him. So I hope that the Supreme Council will be able to re-vote and release the judge in question, by which the Supreme Council of Justice has decided that this is obviously a violation of an oath. Such a judge cannot go to court and make a decision on behalf of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall, call the deputies into the hall. One minute is Knyazevitch. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall for this minute. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u87	Mr. Head, this is the last time I'm speaking. I continue to ask you to remove the possibility of my performance. I'm allowing the session room to be defined so that it doesn't take time and that it's said not to form a position in the hall. As far as the judge is concerned. This is the same court of the city of Kirov, Dnipropetrovska, as Ovcharenko. We also considered them and did not make the same decision because we thought there was reason to believe that they were under serious pressure. But be determined on your own. In this regard, please support the application to the Higher Council of Justice without exception, since this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u88	Colleagues, let's focus as much as possible. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. There is general support for this arrangement. There is general support for all factions and committees. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm going to put it to a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So I am voting on Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 3581-3 on the release of Hodasevich Oleg Volodymirovich from the post of judge of the Kirov District Court of Dniprovska in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please come, we're waiting. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[11:10:00]] For-191 The decision is not made. Next Order 3581-4: The release of Chala Alla Petrovna from office of Judge of the District Court of Kiev in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please welcome to the words of Benedict Igor Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u89	Chala Alla Petrovna has been called to responsibility for the selection of precautionary measures in the form of a watchtower to those who participated in mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u90	I would like to point out that this judge refers to the very categories that the court judges were talking about. And so I'm asking that while there's a brief discussion going on, the maximum number of deputies will be invited to the hall. And please record for discussion, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u91	Thank you. I hope that the colleagues will come along now, and we've finally reached the courts in the field, so the turnout is obviously not such a positive factor for today's meeting. And it's very surprising that the meeting that is called for by the President of Ukraine does not even receive the support of the Presidential faction, in fact, the list that has been issued today. But this is really a lesson for all of us who need to prepare more carefully for these things, to see the biographies of these judges. And now the People's Front faction is very much asking a colleague to mobilize as much as possible so that at least in Maidan we can hear clearly the arguments of every judge who will now be considered. In this regard, the request to the Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice to provide specific facts as to what a judge in the context of Maidan was doing. And then you can get the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u92	Colleagues, I'd like to ask you. Maybe we're making sense. For 15 minutes, I can announce a recess so we can call the deputies. Let's consult, colleagues. I am. Attention! I call, colleagues, I call every minute. I want to ask you and the factions' heads. What we do is we miss it. They're gonna break up. Yes. Then let's get together now. I'll make another offer. So just to talk about it, in the course of the discussion, it's going to be the same 15 minutes, we've been able to get the deputies together, and then we've moved on to making a decision. No one would deny such an offer? Since this is one block of questions, since this is one block of questions, we're all discussing them, and then I'm putting every decision to the vote. Is there such support, colleagues? Then I ask everyone very much. Now we're going to discuss the rulings, and then we're going to vote on them. I am very much asking for this time, while the debate is under way, the heads of factions will inform the MPs as much as possible, which will be an important vote and call them into the hall. If that's what you want. So, regulation 3581, this is the Midanian, actually, the judge of crimes against Maidan, I'm not yet putting it to a vote, I'm putting it to a vote when we discuss all the decisions. So, colleagues, please call everyone, and let's move on to the next question. So, the next order, 3581-5, is to release Homenko Valentine Grigorovna from office as Judge of the District Court of the Herson District. And I invite you to the words of Benedict Igor Mikhailovich. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u93	This decision of the High Council of Justice was taken by the Supreme Qualifications Commission, a violation of the oath by the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u94	Thank you. Do you have a refill, Knyazevitch? Head of the committee. It won't, will it? Please record the question. Please hold the recording. Bitnik, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u95	Captain Olena, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u96	Captain, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u97	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u98	I have a question for the speaker. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I have a great request to stop this campaign now, which we have now, to conduct a signal vote, to find out the number of deputies who are in the session room, and to ensure the irreparability of the decision to release those judges who are involved in the field. If we put to the vote now, realizing that there are not even 226 votes in the room that are willing to take this responsible decision, we will ensure that this judge is not touched. This will be a disgrace to the entire Ukrainian Parliament. We can't let that happen. So I'm asking you to make a signal vote and only then put it to the final vote on this issue. And we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u99	So, Ruslan, you obviously didn't pay attention. I offered to have a discussion and then put it to a vote. Before that, I'm going to make a signal vote. Please be more careful during the discussion before accusing the Speaker of Parliament. We're short 25 votes. I think we have a chance to gather these 25 votes during the discussion, 15 minutes. I don't think there's a chance he's gone. But I think there is a chance. So now we're discussing all the decisions, during that period, I've turned to all the factions' heads to urge the deputies to come as much as possible. And I think we have a good chance of voting. Do you agree with that position, Mr. Ruslan? Agreed or not, will you tell me? The faction's head, Mr. Oleg, do you agree with this position -- to have a discussion and try for those 15 minutes to get the MPs together? Agreed. Let's move on to the next one. Now, please, we have an important position here. Can we move on? Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u100	Today, Parliament must make a just symbolic decision. The people who punished those who fought for this country must be punished. This is not just because the oligarchic clique today forbidding its slaves to come to this hall. So today we support you to bring people into this room and vote, 226 votes, those judges who punished people for fighting for the country. And we ask you, Mr. Head, to publish in the Voice of Ukraine those who do not vote and do not come today. This is a symbolic act of this state as an institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's what I'm getting out of. We are voting on some -- 199 votes. This gives us optimism that we can get out of 226. Colleagues, I say real things, and I think if the MPs are mobilized, we can make a positive decision. So, colleagues, let's move on. I ask you once again: we have 15 minutes to call MPs into the hall. Once again, I appeal to all the heads of the factions of the deputies to be invited to the hall. We move on to the next decision after the discussion. Just now, it's regulation 3581-6: About discharge. Colleagues, there will be an opportunity to discuss it now. Please, one minute, Pinzenik. Excuse me, please turn on Pinzenik's microphone now. Pinzenic, not Victor, but Pinzenic Paul. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u102	Colleagues, before we go to the discussion, essentially, I've got like from the c.o. Director of the Regulatory Committee, clarifying the question to our colleague, Berezuk. I understand you called your fellow national MPs slaves of the oligarchic click. That's what I'm specifying just in case you meant, because, most likely, there's going to be a complaint to the regulatory committee that I know your motives to take a proper look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u103	So let's move on to regulation 35. It was called a last name, wasn't it? It was called. Please repeat, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u104	Official response to the responsibility of the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council, a national deputy. It would be an honor for me, the National MP, if one of those slaves would file a complaint with your committee for my application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u105	So, 3581-6: About the release of Ripin Lidiya Alexandrovna from the post of Judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with the violation of the oath of a judge. Please, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u106	Lydia Alexandrovna Ripin was called to account for her being a judge and taking part in the OSBB case, at the same time as the head of this OSBB. The dispute was about the room. Now she's in Crimea, she's doing gliding activity, and she's leading one of the institutions of this white boat. So if the Supreme Council can't find votes on this issue, then it seems strange to me at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I stress once again, these are very signifying questions for the Ukrainian Parliament, and I stress once again the importance of having a maximum assembly of deputies. Now, if you'd like to include it in the record, for the discussion, please. Novak Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u108	Deputies! We have now moved to the consideration of issues involving judges who have made unjust decisions about the terrain. I very much ask you to remember how we, who were the deputies of the Supreme Council, were present in such courts where this perjury was carried out. We have seen these judges work and decide to order those people, young people, people of all ages, who have stood up for the honor of their country, who have been brought in by beaten, abused people. And that's the kind of judge they had. had no conscience and made a decision that had absolutely nothing to do with the law. Therefore, I ask you all to unite and vote for the release not only of Judge Chala but also of all the judges who have made unjust decisions against Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u109	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, and once again, I emphasize that similar voting will be a sign for society as a whole. The presence of every MP who appeals to Midan and of those who say that they have come to defend Midan’s honor is essential and important. We finished the discussion. One minute, please, Mr. Sergei, I give you my word, you don't have to be here emotionally. Please, Mr. Sergei. Turn on the sobolic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u110	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Don't you understand why this show is arranged? There aren't 100 people in the hall from the coalition, 100 people. Coalitions that we never saw, these 226 signatures. This is done in one way: Parliament has the final right to consider such order by judges. The last day of work, when it can be done, on purpose, in my opinion, this show is set up, so that these people are not in the hall to show and finally pursue parliamentaryism in Ukraine. I'm drawing your attention. Now this judge has nothing to do with Maidan. She's a thief, and this has to be proved in court. She's hiding now in Crimea. What questions are there in the coalition regarding this? Why don't you vote? Why aren't your people in the hall? We'll vote for it. And stop this show that's going to be about destroying parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following Order 3581-7: on the release of Judge Nelly Valentinovna from the post of Judge of the Black Obayaev District Court of the Cherkas region. Please, one minute, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u112	The decision of the High Council of Justice has been taken for the conclusion of a temporary special commission. The violation of an oath is established in the actions of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u113	Thank you. Please include an entry for discussion. Parachutes, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u114	Mr. Andrew. May I? Mr. Andrey, you once put and checked who was in the hall and then published all the walkers in the paper, in the paws, in the walkers, because half of those people were in the hall, they just left at some point. Now let's do that again and print again, and give a political assessment to those people who haven't come today. My offer. I think it'll be fair, right and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u115	Mr. Vladimir, we will, but first of all, we will try to get a positive vote. I think there's a chance. It seems to me that there is a chance that we could get together to vote in the hall, so that we can get a positive vote. So let's go this way. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Next Order 3581-8: To release Stepanenko Viktorovich from his post as Judge of the Vasilkov District Court of Kiev. Please, one minute, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u116	The decision was also taken by the High Council of Justice at the conclusion of the Temporary Special Commission, and the judge decided to impose administrative charges on persons who were involved in mass protests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u117	Please sign up for the discussion. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, do we not understand that the real President, who is the head of the de facto faction of the BPT, is Yatsenuk, who is actually the leader of the People's Front faction, that they are not planning to release the judges who were working against the Ukrainian people? They want to leave everything behind, but leave it with the hands of the discredit and humiliation of Parliament. And this cynical game -- it's not just about judges. The same thing happens after the electronic declaration, the same thing happens in the fight against corruption, which has become completely selective. The same is true of privatization, where it's written down between three and four clans, including the presidential one. This also applies to agricultural land as a commodity. I think that the senior officials of the state simply deliberately preserve the old system, destroy democracy, usurp power -- and actually destroy people's hopes. Stop this circus!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u119	Thank you. Discussion on this subject has been completed. I move on to 3581-9. To release Makuhu Andrija Anatoliyovich from office as Judge of Solomon’s District Court of Kiev So, please, one minute, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u120	Makuha Andriy Anatoliyovich was also held responsible for taking precautions in the form of a watchtower to those who were involved in mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if we go this way, I'll ask if there's anything we'd like to discuss; if there's no, let's move on. Is it accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please record for discussion, one minute. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u122	I ask John Krulk to give the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u123	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What does today’s consideration of judges show? It once again raises the issue of the existence of neither the actual nor the legal coalition in this room. If there is no coalition, and we can see by vote that there is no coalition, please present the coalition lists. If. And you have to admit that there is no coalition. If there is no desire to release judges who imprisoned the courtmen, this too must be said openly. But it is not possible to mention at the beginning of the week that Parliament appears to be depriving itself of the right to release judges from September 30. We're going to a meeting. The Fatherland faction comes to the meetings and votes in favour of all the issues relating to the release of judges who imprisoned the court, and the coalition is simply failing this question. If there is no coalition, show it to the Ukrainian people. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I looked. We colleagues still have 15 decrees. After our discussion, this is about 15 minutes. Let's predetermine the time when the vote will take place. Look, at 11:45, we'll be able to move on to making a decision. 11.45! It's another 15 minutes when we can get the MPs to the room as much as possible. I'm asking everyone at 11.45 for the factions to give a message to the MPs so we have enough colleagues to make a decision at 11.45. Deal, 11.45. Let's move on to the next order: 3581-10. Release Tatour's Irina Mikolayovna from the office of Judge of the Righteous District Court of Kiev Please, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u125	Tataurova’s Irina Mikolayevna also made a decision to take precautions in the form of keeping watch over those who were involved in mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u126	Thank you. Are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please record for discussion. Jemmet Leonid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u127	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, those present and those who, I hope, may be listening to us on the radio or watching TV if they are in Kiev and have simply ignored today’s meeting. It's not a matter of political parties, it's not a matter of factions, it's a question of the responsibility of you and us as national deputies who represent the Ukrainian community, the responsibility of those boys who died in Midan, so that we can have a state and hold these meetings. These judges are the people who have made decisions with the name of Ukraine consciously decided to violate Ukrainian laws to execute the political orders of the Yanukovic gang. I urge everyone who has a conscience of even a gram to return to the sitting room, vote. It's not a question of some political game, it's a question of responsibility to those who died for the right to have our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u128	Thank you. The discussion is over. Colleagues, you'll be able to sign up on every issue, we agreed: a minute to discuss. We're moving on to the next one. Decisions: 3581-13, right? 13. To release Demidovska Alla Igorovna from office as Judge of Solomon’s district of Kyiv. Please, Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u129	Demidov’s Alla Igorovna also made a decision to take precautions in the form of keeping watch over those who were involved in mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u130	Thank you. Please record for discussion, please. Please, Hope Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, we would like to call on President Peter Alexiyovich personally, to call on Yatzenyuk and the rest of us personally, because when we vote for such important decisions today, it is an extremely symbolic step because we are obliged to sit down and release those judges who have taken these decisions. And I would also like to ask you to make a decision regarding the appointment of judges and, given the number of people in the hall, it's ruined. And it's going to be just another contribution. And this farce, this clown who is now demeaning parliamentaryism, we finally stopped. So let's make a ruling right now, and let's break it down, both 700 or how many judges, there's going to be a real cleansing of the court. Not that farce you don't want to take. I'd rather go to Midan now, where there's an action that the Russian court wants to ban Majlis and his activities, and instead I'm taking part in the farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u132	Thank you, colleagues. I think so. Once again, we have a chance to raise the required number of votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, give me a moment of attention, because I hear such emotional things. Dear colleagues, who had another chance, would you tell me? I knew the risks would be difficult to gather. I warned you about the risks. That was true. But I did everything I could to get the MPs to get as many deputies as possible. And I still hope we can talk in 15 minutes, and in 15 minutes, we'll be able to make a successful vote. With regard to other questions. I'd like to emphasize. There is no right to ask any other question than the one stated in the application for the session. We can't do this, this total denial is the law. And that's why I'm asking everyone to call, tell them and ask the deputies to come. In 10 minutes, we have a chance, we have a chance to gather MPs. Please, next. The question was discussed. Next order 3581-14. This is the order for the release of Levchenk Anatoly Volodymyrovich from office as judge of the Borispil District Court. Please, one minute Benedict Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u133	The judge decided to impose administrative charges on persons who were involved in mass protests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u134	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yes. I'd like you to sign up for the interview. A bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u135	Thank you. At last, I was greeted with a word. I want to answer the Ukrainian people's question about why there are still no judges who have decided against the terrain. You know that the decisions of the High Council of Justice on these judges were made last year. Please note that the corresponding decision in the Supreme Council was registered back in January of this year. And please ask the members of the profiling committee, go to the Supreme Council's Office and ask for an explanation as to why the rulings that we are currently considering after the dismissal of the judges who filed cases against Maidan are being considered on the last day before the entry into force of constitutional changes? Why was Parliament unable to consider this for nine months, and why did these judges go to work and decide on Ukraine’s name a week ago?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria, I've already answered you, I'll answer you again. Decisions came at different times. The first four judges were already under consideration, and we returned by Parliament to the High Council of Justice. I told you that, and I'm telling you again, they've already been. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, in the field that came, they came at different stages: some came literally yesterday, the last five decrees. So, dear colleagues, we've discussed the release of 3581-14. Let's move on to 3581-16: the release of Nikita Svetlana Josephovna from the post of Judge of the Primorski District Court. Please, Igor Mikhailovich. 3581-16.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u137	The Supreme Council of Justice's decision taken on the recommendation of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine is a violation of an oath, a violation of legislation when it comes to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u138	Please, I beg you, are you willing to discuss it? There's more. Please record for discussion. Illenko Andrey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u139	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, I don't want to talk right now, it's kind of cool because. I just want to talk to the MPs who were at Maidan. I'm not talking to those who weren't on Maidan who were in Anti-Maidan who got caught up after Maidan, even in today's coalition, and now they're telling us what patriots they are. I'm talking to those on Maidan. Today, perhaps one of the ones for whom this Supreme Council has been elected is to punish criminals, bastards who have tried innocent people. If we don't do it now, by the end of the day, by the 12th night, let's continue the meetings, let's call the MPs who didn't come. Well, you know, this stain isn't going to be in Parliament, it's going to be a stain on the state, if we don't make that decision now. I now address people who still remember this and realize their responsibility. Otherwise, the suffering and blood of the people of Maidan will be in this Parliament. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u140	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's move on to the next order: 3581-17. Release Miroshnik Stanislav Volodymyrovich from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture. Please. Please report, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u141	Miroshnichenko Stanislav Volodymyrovich was called to account for. For allowing for substantial violations of procedural legislation, disproportionate restrictions on the right of the Hmělnice City Council to appeal a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u142	Thank you. Please record the performance. Illenko Andrey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u143	Please tell Lechchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u144	Lewchenko "Freedom" 223 district, city of Kiev. Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Andrew, I'm addressing you now. First, when I spoke to the past about why they didn't, and asked you to ask questions about 700 judges, yes, I was well aware of the rules of the Rules, and I think we can fit into the rules of the Rules, given that you had written not specific orders, but it was written "to consider the issue of the dismissal of judges." And if we reject the ruling, the corresponding judges will be released accordingly, and we will be in compliance with the Rules. And that's why I urge you, in accordance with the Rules, to make the right decision to fail it, because that's the only thing we can do normally. If you say you have no right to do this under the Rules, I'm giving you an alternative. After this vote has failed -- and unfortunately, it will fail, I see -- you're closing this off-line session and calling another off-the-book session in an hour, for that reason. I propose to put to a procedural vote a vote on, as the signatures of the deputies, a third of the signatures for the non-recurrent session. We gather a third of the votes and call it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u145	Thank you. Mr. Jury, I am so sorry to inform you, the great expert on the Rules, that the Head of the Supreme Council has no authority to call an emergency session on his own. The head of the Supreme Council can do so, I remind you once again, on three grounds: 150 deputies, decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please bring the congregation together, Mr. Yuri. The President's appeal and the decision of the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, the discussion of this decree is over, and we're moving on to the next one. And I want to remind you again, I still have a strong belief that we have a chance to raise voices. We had 199 votes in one of the votes, totally real to get out by 226. I'm reminding the factions that the heads of the factions are bringing all the deputies into the hall. But we have to go through the minimum rules, but we have to discuss all the regulations. Now for a few orders, I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Oksani Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u146	The draft Supreme Council Order 3581-18 on the release of a judge is proposed for consideration. I invite you to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Benedisuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u147	Sweden’s Valérie Anatoliyovich, judge of Ukraine’s Supreme Court for criminal proceedings, has been absent for more than a year. It's in the territory of the Russian Federation. He's been fired for breaking his oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u148	Thank you. There's no judge in the room. Will there be speeches to discuss? Please hold the recording. May I have a word with you, Olena Sotnik? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u149	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. My colleagues, you know, I'm having a rainy day. I remember very well the times when we sat in court, lawyers tried with a wheeze in the voice of judges who did not care, to prove that a person lying on the bench of a suspect who was beaten in blood and could not even stand up that he was innocent. And that you can't arrest her that all the protocols in the case are fake. The judge didn't care. It doesn't matter to you now. And what we're now looking at in this judge's case and in other judges is actually a slap to the state of Ukraine, it's a slap to all of you and to all of us who are in this room. I demand that we put to the vote every decision in accordance with the Rules because 264 persons have been registered. That means there are votes to vote. Or else we do propaganda and deceive people again. Let each one vote, and each deputy shall be held politically responsible for his or her vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u150	Thank you. National MP Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u151	I reiterate my demand until the moment of the main vote on the rulings to put a question to the vote, and the results of the vote will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine so that each voter can assess the presence of the national MP in the session room and assess accordingly how he voted in favour of any decision to be released, or not for the release of any judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u152	Thank you. People's deputy Lozový. Please, People's Deputies of Lozov. Last intro.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u153	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. What is happening now is a complete failure to play the role of Parliament. It discredits Parliament and everyone today will write and say that such-any MPs cannot release the judges. And it's being done purposefully to compromise the Supreme Council. And I'd like to say to the respectable coalition: have a conscience, gather the people and let's finally free the judges. Because that'll end with what's going to happen, like in this picture of Gerard David "The Court of Cambis," where the sales judge Zisamenia's skin is pulled off. Because people. It's Maidan's requirement, it's Ukrainian society's requirement to release judges. There is probably no man in this country who believes in the honesty of judges. If the Council of Judges does not release now, people will be released as judges in this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u154	Thank you. Let's move on to the next decision. Draft Decree 3581-19 on the dismissal of the judge. I give the floor to the head of the High Council for Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that if we do, we will. Well, you're going to vote for the judges who made the decision on Midan, so you're going to vote, and if these are the other judges who also committed the violation, in no less presumptuous manner, you're not going to win those votes. I don't even see the need to comment now on a decision made by the High Council of Justice. I already told you, they're all legal, none of them have been canceled. We made every decision with a lot of pain because it wasn't just giving us, you know, under what conditions, and now what's going on here, well, honestly, I'm just surprised. Did you all try to pass laws to make it easy, sorry, to let it go in the toilet? Well, that's gonna be a real shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u156	Thank you. Please sign up for questions and comments. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u157	Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u158	Igor Lucenko, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u159	Thank you, Borislav Berezi. Dear friends, first of all, I would like to address Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Attorney General of Ukraine. Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, these court decisions that we are now after are not from where they came from: there are specific names of prosecutors who have been suing the judges. So I ask Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to immediately release all these prosecutors, without even waiting for our decision. Second of all, I want to talk to my colleagues. Dear fellow MPs, we were actually supposed to do what we're doing two years ago when we came into these walls. And what we're trying to do with these powers right now, with such an effort to vote, is a huge disgrace. I urge everyone to gather in this room now, to vote. What if this is not our mission? Please gather the coalition, show that you have taken responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u160	Please finish 10 seconds. Ten seconds to finish Mr. Igor. Please, Mr. Igor, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u161	Thank you. I ask those who call themselves authorities in this country, eventually, to mobilize and pay their colossal debt to the Ukrainian people, to establish justice, to release these judges, to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u162	I'm inundating before the words of the People's Deputy Parasuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u163	I didn't press anything at all, but once you've given me your word, thank you very much. First of all, I want Mrs. Siroid to not hear me, I'm afraid. I have an offer of this, if there is no head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now, you're going to have to give an assignment to give us a signal vote on how many people are in the room right now. Let's show society who's working right now and who's just hanging out on the street. Let the command conduct a signal vote and in factions announce who and how many people are in the room, it will be very correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u164	Please hold a signal vote. Please vote. Two more minutes. Stop, stop. Give me two minutes to get the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we're still in the process of mobilizing. There's a rating requirement. I'll run the ratings. But we'll still come that way. I have a strong belief that we will gather deputies. I've just spoken to many factions' heads. Now they're gathering everyone who can, who's in Kiev. We don't have much left, literally 5-7. But if there is such a requirement. There's a requirement, let's do it. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So please take part in the rating vote, colleagues who support the rulings. Please participate in the rating vote. [[11:53:59]] For 224 224! And you said. Colleagues, let's be in position. There's still five rulings left, five or seven, and we're going to vote. Please show by factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 94, "National Front" – 53, "Resurrection Block" – 0, "self-help" – 23, "Batakščina" – 14, "Radical Party" – 14, "Resurrection Party" – 3, "Will of the People" – 3. We have voices in the hall, colleagues! Let's finish the discussion. Here come Medunica, and the whole group came from the People's Front. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u166	Please. The next draft of the ruling is. Project Order 3581-20 on the release of the judge. Please. May I have the head of the High Council of Justice, please? I invite the head of the High Council of Justice to announce this motion for a ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I've already said that all decisions of the High Council of Justice have been taken with regard to violators. More comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u168	Name it. Name it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u169	Now I'm going to call you the last name about it. If you want everyone who's made a decision about the Maydan judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u170	Please state the name of the judge according to this ruling. Can you call? Order 3581-19. Sorry, 3581-20.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u171	Wolf’s Svetlana Jacob. A violation of an oath following a review of the Recommendation of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u172	Thank you. Is there a need for discussion? Please. Please sign up. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction in full presence today in Parliament's work is taking part. We believe that all judges who break an oath, who abuse, who rob Ukrainians, should answer, should not just be released, but prisoners should be sent to prison, not to retirement. They go according to their own desires, they get a huge outing, they get a pension, and they have to feed the Ukrainians for the rest of their lives. I'm asking, what are parasites to feed them for? For robbing Ukrainians for the rest of their lives, for not finding a just decision in court when you don't have mud, you don't have a hairy hand, you don't have a prosecutor's dad. Therefore, the Radical Party and our worthy deputies all as one will vote in favour of the release of bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, listen to me for 30 seconds. There's enough votes in the room right now, so we don't have to go too far with this question, so when the decision is announced and I'm asking if there's a desire to discuss, we better not make a statement, we'll get through faster. Seven sets, I'm asking for high dynamics. It's going to be necessary. I'm not going to deprive you of that right. But I'm warning you, what is the logic of our actions? So we move on to the next decision. Another performance. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u175	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. My colleagues, I'm paying your attention, this is, unfortunately, the Chief Justice didn't say, but this is Judge Volkova, this is the judge who released the Gardener, this is actually the Commander of Berkutu, who shot the rangers. I urge you, for today it was a key decision that actually ruined the Maydan investigation, because the Gardener was a key actually figure of the case. Because she set him free, he ran away, and today the matter is almost over. So I ask you very much, please, we must in any case vote in favour of this order and release this judge. And I'm going to Lucenka. My application for criminal misconduct against this judge was filed a year and a half ago. To this day, I was never called to give a witness. I ask that this matter be brought up again immediately, not only should it be released, but it should be handed down in the name of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the longer we discuss, the less likely we are to make a decision. That's why I'm asking you to be very dynamic. Next 3581-21: To release Hamank Alexander Ivanovich from office as Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. Please report to Igor Mikhailovich Benedisuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u177	Failure to perform the duties of a judge, breaching the requirements of procedural legislation in three cases: legislation in the field of anti-corruption, labour discipline, non-compliance with ethical norms and rules of conduct, which is why he is called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u178	Thank you. Are they willing to speak? None. Next order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please hold the recording, one minute. Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u179	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! Representatives of Peter Dusty's Block, who are now talking about someone piranha. I'd like to inform you of the legal consequences of not adopting today's decision to release the judges who violated the oath. Next, from tomorrow, all matters will be transferred to the Supreme Council of Justice. New changes to the Constitution do not provide the basis for exemption as a violation of an oath. Accordingly, the Superior Council of Justice will be obliged to review all matters again. To do this, the High Council of Justice may have to spend another six months to release those judges who have been violating cases against the court. So please, I appeal to all factions, coalitions, oppositions, coalition oppositions or coalitions in opposition, to gather my national deputies and to vote effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u181	Mrs. Victoria, I will have the courage to explain to everyone: there are voices in the hall now. The longer we delay, the less chance we may have. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. So we finished the discussion. And I ask that we continue to insist, not on the discussion, but rather on voting if we really want to get rid of them. So the next one is 3581-23. Release Sergey Mikolaiovich from his post as Judge of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev. Please, Igor Mikhailovich, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u182	The judge also made decisions regarding Midan’s activists, including arrests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u183	Thank you. Are they willing to discuss? None. Next up, 3581-24. The release of Siromashenko Natalia Volodymyrina from the office of Judge Shevchenkow District Court of Kiev Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u184	The judge decided to take precautionary measures in the form of a watchtower to those who were involved in mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u185	Thank you. Are they willing to discuss? Please record for discussion. Lechenko insists on discussing it. Illenko, please pass the word to Lechchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u186	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Still, I insist that we have a basic task today not only to release these judges and perhaps not even as much as to allow the appointment of 700 judges for life. And we have the opportunity to reject that. I believe that, according to the Rules, the presiding officer has the right to do so, because this is the order of the day for the release of judges. Okay, the chairman's refusing. I believe that 150 deputies may insist on this by voting, also under the Rules, and not by signing only. Okay, the chairman's refusing. So I now urge Mr. Chairman to also pick up the phone he has in front of him, where he has direct contact with President Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko of Ukraine, to call and ask him to make an appropriate request for the convening of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the chairman can't do that, I urge the MPs, the BPT bloc, who have direct contact with the President, to call an emergency session immediately after an hour and have failed to appoint 700 judges from the old system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u187	Thank you. The discussion is over. Next: 3581-25. Kalilichenko Olen Borisovna, of the position of Judge of Solomon’s District Court of Kiev Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u188	The judge decided to take precautionary measures in the form of guarding persons who were involved in mass protests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u189	Are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please record for discussion, please. Moses Igor. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u190	Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party. Dear colleagues! It's just a farce, and there's already a representative of the High Council of Justice in the nicknames that's been mixed up in the regulation numbers. Here's a propaganda of what's called a judge's illustration. But think about it: If there is no positive vote today, the Crusader will be adorned soon, with body bodies in mantiacs on the Crusader. It will be. I do not want to be an evil prophet in my homeland, but the lack of justice in the country has become one of the main causes of the Dignity Revolution. And if we don't release them in Parliament now, the Ukrainian people will be released through the gallows. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, there are three decrees left. Three orders, and I ask everyone to come into the hall, please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that there will be a decision-making process now, and ask the factions to invite members of the House. Three final rulings. So 3581-26. Release Irina Dmitrovna from the post of Judge of the Redwater District Court of Kharkiv. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u192	The judge decided to impose administrative charges on persons who were involved in mass protests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u193	Thank you. Are they willing to speak? Yes. Please record the performance, Derivyanko insists. Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, Europe is looking at us. It's not a parliamentary hearing, it's an inquisitor. There are no judges, the Rules are broken, the Constitution is broken. What country do we live in? Believe me, all these decisions that we have made with you will be subject to investigation, and I probably don't rule out in the European Court of Justice. You remember how one judge just proved in the European Court that there were no people in the Supreme Council who voted buttoned up in the Supreme Council. And that's why he found the release of this judge, the European Court, unconstitutional. The other one. I would like to say about the administration of the High Council of Justice. We can’t treat people the way the Head does. These are people, first of all. And if we say we're a democratic state, let's work in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u195	Thank you. The discussion is over. Next: 3581-27. To release Bartachuk Ludmila Viktorovna from office as judge of the Court of Appeal in Kiev. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u196	The judge in the Judges ’ College decided not to change the decision to take precautionary measures in the form of keeping under the watch of activists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u197	Thank you. Is there a desire to discuss? Yes. Please record the performance. Tree tree, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u198	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues! The chairman says there are two decisions left. But I don't see one of those orders of the kind called Kiwalov, which is written on the general list of judges who should be released. Not Kiwalov, I'm sorry, but Father's Viktor Ivanovich. I also want to say. I'm sorry. I also want to say that voting is now as important a vote as we voted on February 20th. As you recall, Sir Andrew, we sat here until the end of the day until we gathered all the deputies to vote for the ceasefire after the revolution. After the shooting at Maidan. So I draw the attention of our citizens in Ukraine to the fact that of the 143 members of the "Peter Prashenko Block" there are now approximately 36 missing, and of the 81 members of the "National Front" there are 26. So the full responsibility for us to vote now lies, first of all, with these two factions. I ask the President of Ukraine and Arsenius Yatsenyuk: Mobilize, please, all of your deputies now, because this is the most important question in two years of the existence of a new Supreme Council -- bringing justice to the judicial system and freeing these ominous judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u199	Thank you. The discussion is over. Colleagues, last ruling, and I would like to point out that I have brought to the attention all the decrees made by the head of the High Council of Justice. Everybody! Even those who came in yesterday literally, who literally came in yesterday and the day before yesterday for the consideration of the Supreme Council. That's the last decision. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Thus, the final order for the release of the courts in connection with the violation of the requirements for incompatibility (4011) concerning the release of Father Viktor Ivanovich from office of judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine. Please, Igor Mikhailovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u200	This decision was taken by the High Council of Justice in connection with the incompatibilities of the judge, as he was a member of the High Council of Justice at that time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u201	Are they willing to discuss? No, colleagues. Yes! Please record for discussion. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u202	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Chižmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u203	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, you know, looking at today's event and realizing what to say on the last day, I always have a question, why couldn't it be considered on Wednesday or Friday when we were practically doing what we were sitting in the hall without a job? But I'm talking about something else. If we don't find 226 votes today, I think Tuesday's first question should be, is a report by the regulatory committee on whether or not there is a parliamentary coalition, whether there are no signatures in the agreement. And so to determine who today usurped power in Parliament and in the country. A minority took power in the country. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose that we all assemble and vote. If that is not the case, it is clear that, in order not to tarnish the idea of parliamentaryism itself on Tuesday, we should consider whether there is a coalition or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u204	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. First I'm going to run a rating vote, and then we're going to step up to every decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats, please, colleagues. We have to vote separately, so we have to hold about 30 votes. Colleagues, please take part in the vote now. For the last time, I want to make a point, there were six representatives from the Opposition Block. I now ask you to prepare for the rating vote. And I'm asking you to conduct a rating vote on the issue of the dismissal of judges. Please take part, colleagues, in the vote. Please vote. [[12:13:04]] For 228 I'm asking you, colleagues, not to break up. Now I'm going to make all the decisions one by one, it's going to be 30 votes, colleagues. I would like to stress, the first four judges we dismissed, I will not bet that there will be no discussion. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm going to the vote, colleagues. So 3581-4. Chala Alla Petrovna, Decree 3581-4. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:13:51]] For 227 Decision taken. Please enter the hall, colleagues who have not come. 3581-5. Homenko Valentina Grigorovna. Please support the decision. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:14:18]] For 229 It's been decided. 3581-6. Repin Lydia Alexandrovna. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581-6, please. [[12:14:40]] For 226 Decision taken. 3581-7. It's Nell Valentine's Day. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:15:05]] For 226 Colleagues, invite people into the hall. We're on the verge. It's been decided. Decision taken. Next: 3581-8. Stepanka Viktorovich. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we vote carefully, responsibly and carefully. Please be supportive. [[12:15:35]] For 232 Decision taken. Next. 3581-9: Makuhu Andrija Anatoliyovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:15:59]] For 225 I see they voted with a red card. We should not go back to the polls. We can put it again. So once again, I'm putting Order 3581-9, Makuha Andri Anatoliyovich, to the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[12:16:35]] For 223 223, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again, colleagues. And this is the last time I'm going to put it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then? Yeah? Okay. It's contradictory, I'll put it on, there's a discussion on it. Next: 3581-10. Tatau's Irina Mikolayevna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Tatau's Irina Mikolayevna. Please support me. Please vote. [[12:17:14]] For 229 Decision taken. 3581-13. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:17:40]] For 224 I'll do it again. So 3581-13. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[12:18:10]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it. I see. Colleagues, then be in your seats. I see. I emphasize that I do not have to bet on a return. I can put it again. So I'm going to put 3581-13 again. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:18:45]] For 225 I'm putting it off, I'm putting it off, and then we're going to think again about how controversial it is. Next: 3581-14 – on the release of Judge Levchenk Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote 3581-14. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:19:19:19]] For 233 Decision taken. Next, 3581-16 is about the release. Nikita Svetlana Josephine. Whoever supports this ruling, please vote, 3581-16, please. Please vote. [[12:19:46]] For 224 224 for. Once again, I put to the vote Nikita Svetlana Josephovna. Who supports the decision on her release, 3581-16, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:20:14]] For 219 I'm putting off, in the end we're going to consider conflicting decisions. Next: 3581-17. Release the Peacekeeper Stanislaw Volodymyrovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. 3581-17, please vote. [[12:20:47]] For 235 Decision taken. 3581-19: Release Hercules' Aunt Volodymyrna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. 3581-19, let's go, colleagues. [[12:21:16]] For 228 Decision taken. Next: 3581-18. Sweden Valery Anatolyovich. Whoever supports this decision please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:21:44]] For 231 Decision taken. Next: 3581-20. Wolf’s Svetlana Jacob. This is the one that Olena Sotnik emphasized. Please mobilize. Please support 3581-20. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:22:19]] For 221 Colleagues! The judge who freed the Gardener. I'll put it to the vote again. Once again, I ask you to mobilize and vote. Once again, I put to the vote a decree of 3581-20 on the release of Volkow Svetlana Jacobi from the position of Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Wolf’s Svetlana Jacob. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:23:01]] For 235 Decision taken, colleagues. Next: 3581-21. Hamanka Alexandre Ivanovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:23:29]] For 231 Decision taken. Next: 3581-22. Release Black Tutor Valery Ivanovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[12:23:55]] For 229 229 for. Decision taken. Next: 3581-23. I'm going to go get Sergei Mikolaiovich. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, don't leave. Whoever supports this decision, please. We'll wait for Rybchin to get the coffee. Can we? We can. So who supports 3581-23 please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:24:31]] For 214 214, let's put it down. Next: 3581-24. Poor Natalia Volodymyrna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. 3581-24, please vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[12:25:00]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. Next: 3581-25. Release Kalinicenko Helen Borissovna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. 3581-25, please vote, please support. [[12:25:27]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. Next. There are only a few decisions left for the colleague. 3581-26: Release Irina Dmitrovna. Anyone who supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:25:58]] For 225 225, I'll do it again. One voice. So 3581-26. Those who support the release of the impaled Irina Dmitrovna, please vote carefully. Please, colleagues, please vote, vote. Please. [[12:26:26]] For 230 Decision taken. And 3581-14. Didn't we vote for Lechchenka? Levchenko Anatoly Volodymyrovich. We didn't vote for Housekeeping Alla Victorian. This is Decree 3581-15. Whoever supports this decision, please vote Housekeeping Alla Victorian. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:27:22]] For 222 222, I'll do it again. Petty Officer Alla Victorovna, who supports the release, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please, two more rulings, don't go away. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:27:54]] For 227 227 for. Decision taken. Colleagues, therefore, Decree 3591-11. Lisenka Volodymira Vasilovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[12:28:32]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. And Decree 3581-12: Martsinkevich Vitalia Anatoliyovich. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[12:29:00]] For 219 219. Put it back up again? So, colleagues, I'm re-voting Decree 3581-12: Martinkiewich Vitaliy Anatoliyovich. Whoever supports this decision please vote, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[12:29:35]] For 222 221. Colleagues, I told you, everyone who was controversial, I'm going to put up again, colleagues. Less emotion in the room, and more vote and a job, that's the right thing to do. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Decree 4011 on the release of Father Viktor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues who support this decision, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[12:30:34]] For 226 226 is "for", the decision is taken. Colleagues, so we have four decisions that we didn't get one or two votes for. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention! I'm asking you to focus, I'm going to count them. So I'm counting. We didn't vote for Makusa Andrija Anatoliovich, po. Go Sergey Mikolaiovich, Nikita Svetlana Josephovna, Demidovska Alla Igorovna No, we're not. I'm going to set it up. I'm going to count them so they understand. Yeah? Can I put it, colleagues? And Reva Sergey Viktorovich. Five decrees. I'm going to put them to the vote now. Ready, colleagues? I'm not gonna bet forever anymore, I'm gonna put up some place, colleagues. So I'm voting on Order 3581-2 on the release of Reva Sergio Viktorovich from office as judge of the Kyiv District Court of Odessa. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[12:32:20]] For 224 Two votes! I'll do it again. I'll do it again, two votes is very small. Come in! I see you're talking to each other instead of voting, colleagues. I'm renouncing decree 3581-2, Reva Sergey Viktorovich, release. Please support, this is the last vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote! Colleagues! [[12:32:58]] For 230 Decision taken. 3581-16: Nikita Svetlana Josephovna, Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa. Who supports this ruling, please vote, 3581-16, please. [[12:33:33]] For 209 The decision is not taken. 3581-9: Makuha Andriy Anatoliyovich. Who supports this decision: Makuha Andriy Anatoliyovich, a judge of the Solomon District Court of Kiev, is to vote, colleagues. Please vote, please. [[12:34:06]] For 216 It's not a decision, colleagues. Colleagues, I remind you, we've already discussed, there's an unscrupulous part of people holding on to this vote. The discussion has already taken place, we are only going to vote now. Colleagues, pay attention! I'll give you a minute to step out of the factions and give the head of the committee. Is that right? No, it's not. One minute from the factions, we have one more vote left. Oleg Lazko, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – one minute later, replicas. Germany, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u205	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. Today, it is a special occasion to convene a special session of Parliament to release judges who have sowed on unrestrained grounds, including in Maidan. I ask everyone to look carefully at who doesn't vote, how the cards are specially drawn, particularly by the Ukrainian national deputy from the "Peter Prashenko Block" Nesterenko from Dnipropetrovska was in the hall, Nemirowski, were in the hall, pulled cards, escaped. As farmers in the Dnipropetrovska farm, Nesterenko is using all of her options to vote for the release of judges who have uninterrupted the people -- they're not in the hall with the cards. Shame on those who cover the judges who imprisoned the courtmen who sowed the people! Let's go back two years and remember how many corpses there were and how much blood was spilled through this gang that was covering!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u206	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u207	I think the whole country is now looking forward to seeing corruption in the hall. When the judges who destroyed the Danes, but who did not personally support President Poshenko, began voting for him, his deputies came out of the hall. And where they had no conspiracy, 101 votes were cast; and when they had to keep the judge, 88 were left. Don't you understand that this is the unscrupulous corruption of the President of Ukraine?Oh, my God! We insist that all the judges who have not now been released by this kind of fraud of the President's environment should immediately be placed again and then printed by name from the "Peter Prashenko Block" of the people who have left, come out of the hall or pulled the cards. It's very revealing, it's a double policy and it's an immorality that the President and his environment are demonstrating.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u208	Germany, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, well, I think that the history of parliamentaryism does not know the double approach that the whole of Europe has seen, and today we have seen, on that triple, fourth vote. Where did we come from?Oh, my God! I assure you, from the point of view of the Constitution, this is a worthless decision from the point of view of the law. And believe me, people will defend themselves. And third. I would like to see the third branch of power stopped altogether. I very much ask you that it is worth the opportunity of citizens to defend their interests in a court of law. And you'll see what happens from October 1st: you've broken up the judiciary -- that's what this is about. And how can that be forgiven, and who is behind it? Why the judiciary, specifically the persons to whom today I am not sure, is no longer, I am sure that they are not all guilty, because the investigation, the investigation carried out in the hall, is worthless and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u210	Thank you. Berezuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u211	The honourable parliamentarians, these votes are the most important. All those in favor of this state are following these ballots. They will be motivated or undervalued today. Your Honor, there are a lot of people standing next to those people. Today you have to stand up for the same President, who is the guarantor of the rights in Ukraine of those people who have died, their relatives and those who are injured today. Today we cannot but vote. Today, all those who voted and who did not vote by name must be printed, for this is the judgment of the Ukrainian people against those who are destroying that state from the inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u212	My colleagues, listen to me now. We have three more court judges. We'll talk for half an hour now, and we won't take them, colleagues. I strongly recommend that we proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, every vote is on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's open. Any political power can study it in detail, publish it, and report it to the electorate. I'm asking you to come into the hall. We still have three Mayan judges. So let's move on to the decision. Another common decision that didn't get votes is 3581-13. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. 3581-13. Please vote. That's what the discussions were about. Please. [[12:40:07]] For 214 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, we have three Midian votes, judges who condemned the court. This is Euphimus Olga Ivanovna, Cowl Svetlana Mikolayevna, and Prinduk Maria Vasilovna. Colleagues! And Bartachuk Ludmila Viktorovna and Becca Alexander Vadimovich. That's it. They were just behind the pages. Five votes, colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I stand by judges for whom there is no discussion. Who committed crimes against Maidan. I ask you to concentrate, and I place these last five votes in stages. Thus, 3581: On the release of Bartachuk Ludmila Viktorovna from the office of the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:41:26]] For 214 Colleagues, please. Now I'm going to put it again on the vote. Colleagues, I'm going to put this to the vote again. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, just as a few deputies have come out, colleagues. I'll do it again. These are the judges for whom there is a clear charge of crimes against Maidan. Colleagues, please. I'd like to invite a colleague into the hall. And I'm voting 3581-27 again: Bartschuk Ludmila Viktorovna is the release. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote responsibly. [[12:42:33]] For 216 Colleagues, I will return to this vote. The next one's on release. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll go back to this vote, I'll go back to this vote, we'll talk about it as a problem. Now I'm putting 3581-28: the release of Betz Alexander Vadimovich from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I would like to point out that this is also the case with the judges who committed crimes against Maidan. Beza Alexandre Vadimovich. Please vote, colleagues, please support. 3581-28. Please vote, colleagues, please support, we vote. [[12:43:23]] For 214 I'll put them all to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'll give it when I think it's necessary. Thank you. I'll give it when I think it's necessary. Colleagues, we have 3581-29: Ephim’s Olga Ivanovna Please come into the hall, colleagues. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Order 3581-29 is also a crime against Maidan. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Well, don't leave the hall, mate. Come into the hall. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? Please be supportive. [[12:44:27]] For 215 Colleagues! What's going on, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll make two more decisions, and then I'll give you a minute to talk about it. I'll make two more decisions, and then I'll give you a minute to talk about it. Next. 3581-30: About the release of the Cowl Svetlana Mikolayovna, colleagues. Cow of Svetlana Mikolayevna. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581-30. Please vote. [[12:45:11]] For 206 And I'm going to put one in, and then we're going to talk about this situation. So 3581-31: Prince Maria Vasilovna of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581. Please vote. [[12:45:43]] For 215 So, colleagues, after the last five decrees, we didn’t get a vote, a few votes. Let's talk about this. One minute at the head of the factions. I'll be with you in a minute. If there are any motives for not voting, please announce these motives, colleagues. I'm asking you very much, if there's a motive not to vote, announce these motives. The factions. Peter Dustenka's Block. Igor Greene, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u213	I welcome all the deputies with the positive decisions we have made. And I urge everyone to return to the hall and vote on everyone else. First of all, I call on the MPs of the Petra Prashenka faction to return to the hall and vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u214	Thank you, Mr. Igor. The People's Front is Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, September 16, as George Gongadze was killed. And here's the last decision we voted here was Judge Maria Prinduk, who released the Banger directly to the killer of Gongadze, who was finally found. This is a long case, and we don't know or have any punishment. This man judged the Jews, carrying out all the political orders made by the authorities. They freed Melnik of their time, the rector of the Irpine Academy. And you know why? Her husband, it turns out, is now working at KMDA. And we understand that there are probably people in this room who are interested in keeping it in position. Let's be honest about this. Everyone who won't vote for the release of Mary Prinduk and all those other resonant people, they'll all get grades, colleagues, colleagues from the coalition first. Where is Mr. Capplin, who here is criticizing us all? Where are so many of my colleagues from the coalition today? Today, there is a need for effective voting and for us not to depart from this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u216	Thank you. Next up is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, demanded that the Parliament meet again to free the judges. And I'm surprised at the position of our esteemed colleagues from the factions of the venerable Peter Dustenk when within the last five minutes, at least 15 BP MP cards disappeared and they stopped voting. Then let's tell the whole country that you're divorcing people by having a circus. On the one hand, the President demands an extraordinary meeting, on the other hand, the deputies of the presidential faction do not vote, covering who? – judges who judged countless people were jailed. Comrade Sumar set an example for Mary Prinduk, who released the killer of Gongadze. A lot of other examples, when people are supposed to sit in jail, these judges, you're doing them today, not letting go, you're covering. So you are responsible for the corruption of the judiciary, for the disorderly, for the irresponsibility of the judges, for the failure of the Ukrainian people to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u218	Fatherland passes the word of Volodymyr Parasuk. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u219	Thank you for giving me your word. Right away. The head of the Peter Dusty Block faction says we need everyone to gather. Mr. Head, turn around, there's a deputy from Nemirowski who votes selectively in favour, in favour, in favour, in absentia, in absentia, in absentia. I call it Nemirowski. Why don't you come out here and explain why you don't have any positions? You, as a responsible national MP, tell me why you're not voting in favour of Decree 3581-2, 3581-16, but you've already voted in favour of Decree 3581-13. What are you doing, evaporating in this room? And then you show up again. Stop divorcing. And remember, the responsibility lies with you and with the President. You're going to embarrass him now, but I want to tell you more, he's going to embarrass himself, he's going to lead himself to this situation and he's covering up the criminals who killed our boys.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u220	I'll give you my word for it if you need it. Oleg Bérezük gives the word to Jehor Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u221	Colleagues who can't get into the hall or who can't vote. In fact, there is no one between you and the Ukrainian people today. A lot of people are watching this vote right now. Do not listen if someone commands you, do not listen if someone tries to do with you what they have done with those judges, they will surrender. Remember, Father's is released today. It was the plot of corruption of Yanukovitch, the head of the Supreme Economic Court. They'll turn you in like that. Do not take such a sin. It was winter, they were beaten people. We're not voting for the Kyiv Court of Appeal? They already knew what was going on. There were a lot of people, lots of cameras, lots of foreign ambassadors, they still left in the winter Lukyanian compound of beaten grandfathers, beaten boys. Do not take this sin upon yourself, take it and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u222	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We have a chance to get a positive vote. Colleagues, five orders in the field judges. I'm giving the committee's head another minute, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u223	I just want to make a point. Because, unfortunately, once again, we do not read those decrees, but we speak in general. Just now, the biggest scream was around Judge Nikita, who was not voted for. She asks why we punish her. Because on January 29, 2007, in the case of a so-called citizen, this kind of enterprise about the recognition of property rights to non-residential housing (dwelling) of 12 square meters and so on. Friends, let's at least read the material and then say these things!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u224	My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are not voting on the decree we were talking about. We now have 5 decrees: Bartachuk, Bec, Prinduk, Koval, Eiffimova. And I'm asking you, the MPs are coming in now. Bird, one more minute. And if you'll excuse me, we'll have a vote in a minute. One minute, it's a bird. And we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to these judges: Prinduk, Koval, Betz, Efimova, Bartachuk are the judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal who have reviewed the case of the court and not noticed the numerous violations. And in particular, I analyzed the decision of the High Council of Justice. On the question of how she did not notice the identical explanations of the Berkuts, who were then writing under the copier, she said that the Berkuts and the law enforcement authorities were communicating and that they could memorize the texts with paragraphs. Friends, please, let's focus and vote, the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Do you have any other questions about these judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u226	Colleagues, so let's move on to making decisions. Let's move on to making decisions, colleagues. Please come into the hall. I'm going to rule 3581-27 again: Bartachuk Ludmila Victorian. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. And let's support our colleagues. Please support, 3581-27, colleagues, vote. But be careful, I called my family: Bartschuk Ludmila Victorian. Please vote. [[12:54:24]] For 217 217. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3581-28. 3581. All right, factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u227	The factions, please. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 90, "National Front" – 55, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 23, "Fathership" – 14, "Pradical Party of Oleg Láska" – 16, "Party of Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 2. We're short a few votes, colleagues. I'd like to invite you to the hall. Let's try the next 3581-28. Beza Alexandre Vadimovich, colleagues. Please prepare, please take part in the vote. BeceAlexandra Vadimovich – 3581-28. Please come into the hall, colleagues. Please vote, 3581-28. Vote. Beza Alexandre Vadimovich. Please vote. [[12:55:52]] For 219 Colleagues, six votes. I think we can get six votes. I'm in factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can see that on the board! You can see that on the board! Mr. Yuri, I can't see those numbers on the board right now. And you stop trying to run the Supreme Council! I'm going to ask you, please, to engage in parliamentary activity and fall a little emotionally. Okay? Colleagues, six votes. We can walk out on them completely, colleagues. We can go out for six votes. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to focus. I'm putting in the next order 3581-29: Efimov Olga Ivanovna, these are also crimes against Maidan. Colleagues, please take part in the vote 3581-29. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Ivan! Please vote. [[12:57:10]] For 218. Likewise, five votes. I'll be back. I'll be back. Next: 3181-30. Release the Coval of Svetlana Mikolayevna. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, we're short a few votes. Anyone who does not vote or who is not in the room casts a shadow on the entire Parliament. The whole Parliament is overshadowed. So 3581-30, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, Svetlana Mikolayevna. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[12:58:01]] For 218. Same story. I'll put it again and then I'll go round again. Colleagues, 3581-31, Prinduk Maria Vasilovna, mentioned by Victoria Sumar. I'm begging you, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, please prepare. Priduk Maria Vasilovna, Priduk Maria Vasilovna (3581-31). Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Logwinsky, why are you going to the hall? Logwinsky. [[Noise Nodes]] Are you guys ready? I'm voting on Order 3581-31 to release Prinduk Maria Vasilovna from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev in connection with the violation of the judge's oath. Who supports this decision, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? Colleagues, so I'm voting. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[13:00:05]] For 222 I'll do it again, colleagues. 222. Colleagues, please come into the hall, please take your jobs, colleagues. My colleagues, please come into the hall. You can't go out like this. Julia Volodymyrna, I'll set it up and then I'll give it to you. Okay? Yeah, looks like we're voting now. Yeah, looks like we're about to make a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And once again, I emphasize, this is the question that Victoria Sumar was talking about, which was the common position of all factions. So I'm voting 3581-31 on the release of Prince Mary Vasilni from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[13:01:18]] For 224 Two votes, colleagues, two votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'm gonna put it back on now. Colleagues, please, I see the MP is out of the hall. Come in, please, I'll put in again, colleagues. Do you support re-installing? Colleagues, please come into the hall. Vladya! Do you vote? Are you there? You vote. Please, I'll bet you again. Order 3581-31: To release Prince Mary Vasilovna for violating the judge's oath. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Colleagues, we're short two votes. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:02:20]] For 227 Decision taken, colleagues. Congratulations on your decision, colleagues. It was an important decision. We have four other decisions, colleagues. Colleagues, four more field decisions. So 3581-27: Bartachuk Ludmila Viktorovna. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support 3581-27. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. These are also crimes against Maidan, it's from the same package. [[13:03:02]] For 222 Two votes. I'll do it again, colleagues, two votes. Some MPs walk around the hall, don't vote. Colleagues, two votes! I'm begging you, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Four votes. Okay, four votes. I'm 3581-27 again. Bartschuk Ludmila Victorian. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581-27. Colleagues, everyone in position? Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581-27. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:03:57]] For the 220. Six votes. Colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts. All right, colleagues, let's do it again. There are four decisions left. Let's exchange our thoughts again. But, colleagues, with one request. In this case, we have the sense to make a decision, not to make political accusations. Our common desire is to make a decision, not to make a conflict in the hall. We've got a few minutes to go. To urge the National Deputies to enter the Hall. We literally miss five votes. But a few minutes from all the factions, I'm going to give the factions a minute, they're going to demand it. "Peter Dust Block," which one of you? It's the Prince, isn't it? Igor Green, please. Igor Green, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u228	To date, we have released more than 20 judges. I'll do it again. The position of many judges who had no relation to Maidan was quite clear. When judges were released for 200 dollars in Portnova and Yanukovich’s time, we did not really give these votes. For all the crimes or judges that made decisions on Maidan, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u229	Thank you. Colleagues! I'll give each faction a minute, colleagues. After that, I'll make four more decisions. This will be the last vote. We've put them many times already. Right after the factions and then four, the final vote. This is the time at which we can invite the MPs into the hall. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I address everyone in this room. We must vote on all these rulings in the very ostentatious judges of Midan’s day, which is our duty. I urge everyone to return to the session room and vote on these last four decisions. And I would like to mention those deputies who tear up their shirts on the roost and for the common people: Caplina, Lechchenka, Najem. Where are they? Where are the people who tell us they're the main players in the Mayan fight for the Midan ideals? They're not in the hall right now. Here are your conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u231	Please, Oleg Lazko. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u232	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm addressing Mr. Greenyve's distinguished colleague of the Peter Dusty Block. You're saying you're not voting for the release of judges because they're about 200 bracelets wrong or they're looking at cases. Why don't you tell the judges of the Court of Appeal of Kiev Bartashuk, Bec, Efimov, why don't you vote for their dismissal? These judges dealt with the field affairs, left the decisions of the district courts in force, and kept people in prison. According to the judge, for the release of the Judge of the Solomonic Court of Demidowski, who put a man in prison without considering his case, because the victim was hospitalized, he was beaten up in Maidana, and he was not even brought to trial, the man in the hospital, and the victim was put in prison, taken from the hospital directly to the Lukyannis Siz, and this decision was taken by Judge Demidowski. And you're not voting for her release. Why, do I have a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u233	Thank you. I'll give you a line right away, okay? Please repeat, and then Julia Volodymyr. Please, Igor Greene's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u234	Not by name, but by numbers. Self-help, 26 votes 23, Fatherhood 21, 14 votes, Easy 21, 17 votes, People's Front, 81 votes 58. If only a third of your deputies would vote. There's nothing to translate into Peter Dusty's Block. This is to a lesser extent unfair. The President convened this session for this purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u235	Thank you. Colleagues! Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u236	Dear friends, in fact, today’s special session, are considering the dismissal of judges who worked against Maidan and who are not being punished. Today's special session. Part of the deputies are on their way. But the main thing is to see how many are in the room and how many are voting. The only faction is Peter Prashenko's Block, and I'm sure on the orders of the President of the country, there are 16 people in the room, but they don't vote. Moreover, Brezenko, Gerasimov, Matvienko, Cononenko, just in the middle of the vote -- these are the President's closest people -- have left the room and are not demonstratively voting for the release of judges working against Maidan, against the patriots of Ukraine. What are you talking about? The requirement is simple: everyone in the room click on the button! And name the Deputies of Dusty, who are in the hall and who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, I see there are other deputies in the hall, we have a chance to make a decision. No, no. I'll give you a vote. I urge you to get the hell out of here. Please, Oksana Siroid, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. It enters the "self-help" time. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, a few things. I can tell you that just from the "self-help" point of view, I can tell you that three people who don't vote, two of them on a field trip, one with a trauma at home. But me. I have a question to ask the head of the Peter Prashenko bloc, why are these faction members who are present in the hall, why aren't they voting and drawing cards? Why is this done by the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Legal Policy? Because it's not the judges who condemned 200 dollars, it's Bartschuk, Bec, Efimov and Koval, for whom the head of the Justice and Legal Policy Committee does not vote for their release. These judges are all involved in investigating cases related to the Dignity Revolution. Look at the results of the vote, I've checked the results of the vote. Why are you covering the release of these judges? These are the judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. And they all went through.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u239	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u240	They all went through a temporary special commission, all of whom were considered by the public, with regard to none of them there is any doubt that they were involved in those crimes. Why are you covering them? Why is the committee covering them?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u241	Colleagues, we're done speaking. All of them. No, Dudenkov still, the opposition block faction. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u242	Once again, I would like to emphasize the position of the “Opposition Block”. We are not involved in this politicized process, why? For a number of reasons. First of all, it looks like this at first. The President initiated judicial reform. We have supported it as a faction to truly form an independent branch, the State branch of the judiciary. The President now, I do not know, probably does not trust this judicial reform, is trying to transfer the process of dealing with personnel issues to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the last day, because tomorrow this reform will enter into force, changes to the Constitution. Moreover, the grounds, as previously stated, for breach of oath by a judge are solely evaluable. Even so, all the statements made by all the factions are overly politicized. All these materials will simply be documented and used by these people in appealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the ECHR, which has been repeated, in particular in the “Volkov v. Ukraine” case. Therefore, it is best not to make a decision at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u243	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u244	Those changes to the Constitution will enter into force tomorrow, and there will be procedures and audits for those judges as well. Moreover, the “Transitional Provisions” of the Ukrainian Constitution states that all judges must be tested for competence, integrity and another subjective criterion. That is, there are all mechanisms to address these issues. We are now overly politicized in this room without resorting to these issues, based on political slogans, we are making any decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u245	Thank you. Colleagues, a few deputies came along. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking for these two minutes everyone who's in the towers to invite them. Now the minute is Chumak, and then the closing minute is Knyazevitch. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u246	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I was finally waiting for the word. You know, we're on the verge of a huge disgrace to Ukrainian parliamentaryism today. When a parliamentarian wants our Parliament to change the Rules when he does not want to - does not change the Rules - he can manipulate the Rules as much as possible. I'd just like to draw your attention to the fact that we can't make a decision based on the four judges themselves. When you just look at who doesn't vote, it's not just the representatives of the Peter Prashenko faction who keep coming out and coming out of the hall. I don't want to go to Mr. Green because, unfortunately, Mr. Green is not the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, but Peter Prashenko himself. I want to talk to Peter Alexiovich, who's probably watching it on TV. Mr. Berezenko, Cononenko, Granowski, Zagori and others, whose phones are completely on the phone of the President of Ukraine, were not voted in favour. I ask you, Peter Alexiyovich, call these people to come into the hall and about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u247	I will give my word to Igor Greeniv and then to Knyazevich. Yes, Mr. Igor? And we're voting on our colleagues. Are they all in the hall? Mr. Igor, is there a need for replication? Turn on the microphone, please, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u248	I don't have to comment on the factions of the factions. I think after that, if they're excluded from the faction for example, I'm going to comment on why they're being expelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u249	Thank you. And the final one is Ruslan Knyazevich, and we're going to the vote. All right, everybody, please come to the hall. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u250	I don't want to comment on Mr. Sergei's speech, because you can see the last 10 votes voted, and I voted in favour everywhere. And what I have in separate judges is, let's say, my position, I publicly supported it several times during the discussion of these issues in the session room. And in all the votes where I'm in the room, you can see, I'm voting. As to how we should act now. We should try to vote again and then determine how to act. Because it won't be a big deal if we hand over a number of judges to the High Council of Justice, including Mr. Kuzmenko, whom Mr. Lazmenko has taken off, and he's still in court. For some reason he doesn't mention him. But we're going to hand it over peacefully because we understand that he doesn't have any votes in the release room. And a whole bunch of other judges that we have left. Including the judges who are now in the decision to release another, but for some reason you have not announced it, Mr. Head. And there are a few more dozen judges, I'll remind you, for different reasons, but not for breaking an oath. We have no choice but to pass them on to the High Council of Justice. We just have to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u251	Colleagues, the name was mentioned, you know. Please, a line, but 30 seconds, and we're voting. And when you mention your last name, you realize that there's a need then in the replica. You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u252	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I think it's clear to everyone in this room why our esteemed colleagues in the faction of the distinguished President Peter Poshenko do not vote for the release of the disgraceful judges who tried the court, who violated the law, who broke the oath. They do not vote for one reason: for these judges are serving in the same way that they have served in the former authorities, because these judges now exercise authority. They were at Yanukovich's.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u253	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u254	At Yanukovich, these judges, they carried out the most disgraceful orders, they continue to carry out these orders in the same way today. Look who's out there -- the "flower" of the presidential faction: Berezenko, Cononenko, Granowski, and all other highly worthy fellow MPs. They do not dismiss the judges of the Court of Appeal for one reason: they still serve in the present - day authority. The Radical Party faction proposes to break this vicious circle and vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u255	Please, we all take our seats and go to the polls. I'd like everyone who's at the Presidium to come into the hall. Once again, I appeal to all those at the front desk, to enter the hall, to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I won't put up with it tens of times. I'm going to make those four decisions again, and that's why our agenda will be exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, everyone's taken jobs, can we vote? So I make four final decisions, colleagues. Order 3581-27: To release Bartashchuk Ludmila Viktorovna from office of the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. This was the case when crimes against the courtmen were committed. Please support Order 3581-27. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please. Please vote carefully, responsibly. [[13:19:15]] For 222 Colleagues, two votes. This is about all the phone calls, two votes, who didn't make it? One didn't make it, Brichenko didn't make it. Who hasn't got it yet? Please take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking the deputies who are in the aisle, we're short two votes. I'm asking you to call who's in the aisle. Sidorovich, please come in, we're voting, Mr. Ruslan. I'm re-voting decree 3581-27: free Bartashuk Ludmila Viktorovna, please vote for my colleagues, please support. And we all vote carefully. Colleagues, please support, please vote for colleagues, please support. [[13:20:33]] For 222 Three votes! Do we have a chance to get three votes out, colleagues? I'll take the next one. The next 3581-28 is to release Betz Alexandre Vadimovich from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. These are also crimes against Maidan, 3581-28. Please vote, colleagues, I ask you to maintain your vote in unanimity. Please vote. Colleagues, please vote! [[13:21:16]] For the 220. Next order 3581-29: Efimov Olga Ivanovna, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Colleagues, 3581-29, also crimes against Maidan. Please vote, please support 3581-29. Please vote, please support. [[13:21:55]] For the 220. And 3581-30 is the order for the release of Koval Svetlana Mikolayovna from the office of the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with the violation of the judge's oath. Colleagues, we're going to be embarrassed if we don't mobilize now and we can't vote, colleagues. I ask everyone to come into the hall, and I put to the vote a decree of 3581-30, and ask her, colleagues, to vote and support. Please vote, please support, please. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:22:44]] For 219 Colleagues, I've been through all the circles. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, look, I'm begging you, colleagues. Now we can do two voices of good by calling on the deputies. Now I'm giving you another minute to get the deputies in. I'll give you another minute to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies. We're missing literally a few votes. I'm going to put the vote again, but this is going to be the last time, and I'm going to close the session. Please, one minute, invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come to the hall and come into the hall. Colleagues, we're short five votes to make a decision. I'd like to invite you to the hall. I'll hold some consultations. Colleagues, I'm going to put it to the vote again. Colleagues, me. Guys, I'm gonna put it back up again. I'm asking you to meet the deputies. I want to say that if there's not enough votes, I'm going to call it a break, and we're going to meet with the factions to hold appropriate consultations. Because I think it's unacceptable: not making a decision by Parliament by judges who have committed crimes against Maidan. That's why I'm asking the deputies to come in. We'll stay in that room, we'll look for votes to make a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to mobilize MPs. Colleagues, please. Now we've got more deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's going to be another vote. Please mobilize, there will be another vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please prepare to make your decision. Colleagues, 30 seconds to take up jobs and move on to decision-making. 30 seconds. Please come into the hall, everyone, and we'll move on to making a decision. All factions, please mobilize as much as possible. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. Once again, I put to the vote these decrees, on which there was complete unity in the room. Just five deputies were missing. Please release the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and take your place. Yegor Sobolev, stop blocking the rostrum, back to the vote. Colleagues, we're about to get to the bottom of this. I'm asking you to take your jobs. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Attention. Ready? So, colleagues, I'm putting the 3581-27 ruling to a re-vote: the release of Bartashuk Ludmila Viktorovna from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Careful, colleagues, please. I'll wait till everyone gets here, I'll wait. Please vote, colleagues, and please support Bartachuk Ludmila Victorian. Please. Where did Krulko go? Ivan Krulko, Ivan Krulko, you're with the card. So we vote 3581-27 Bartschuk Ludmila Viktorovna. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[13:31:56]] For 219 The man didn't make it. Already in the hall, huh? Yeah, I'll do it again. Colleagues who didn't make it, please. I see you haven't made it, I see. Please. I'll put it up again, colleagues. Everybody in position, all seated? I'm putting to the vote again 3581-27, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote 3581-27. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. [[13:32:56]] For 222 Colleagues, three votes missing, three votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Four votes. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Have they all arrived, colleagues? Colleagues, I'm showing you the factions. We're getting ready, we're about to get to the bottom of this. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We're about to get to the bottom of this, colleagues. I'll read it. Colleagues! I'm betting on a 3581-27 vote: to release Bartschuk Ludmila Viktorovna from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. I ask everyone to be disciplined. Well, where are you running? Please support and vote. Every voice on the scale, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:34:14]] For 225 One voice. One vote, colleagues, one vote. I can see I didn't make it. Prepared, please, colleagues, with discipline. Please, we're taking our jobs. And I'm betting. We already have voices in the hall, colleagues. Just be careful. Every voice. Semenchenko returns and votes. Each voice has a weight. Careful! I'm voting 3581-27. 3581-27: Release Bartachuk Ludmila Viktorovna. Please vote. Please be supportive. 3581-27. Colleagues, please have voices. Vote. 3581-27. Can I have your back, please? [[13:35:12]] For 223 We didn't make it. I see we're not there yet, colleagues. Let's do it again. Colleagues, colleagues. I see we're not there yet, colleagues. Colleagues, please do not arrive, reports Arthur that he has not been able to vote. I'll put it again, colleagues. I'm re-voting 3581-27. I ask everyone who has failed to vote. I ask all who have not been careful to vote. 3581-27. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please be careful. We all vote. Please vote. Semenchenko arrives, he votes. Please support me, colleagues, please. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:36:14]] For 224 Two votes, colleagues. Two votes. I'll bet on it. I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] The card didn't work. I make the following decisions, colleagues. The next order is 3581-28. Beza Alexandre Vadimovich. Beza Alexandre Vadimovich, also a crime against Majdan. Please vote, please support 3581-28. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:37:05]] For 226 Decision taken, colleagues. [[Applause]] So I'm going back to 3581-27. 3581-27. Please vote, please support. Bartschuk of Ludmila Victorourena. Please vote, please support 3581-27. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:37:39]] For 221 I'll take the next one. Next up, Olza Ivanovna. The decision to release the Ethiopian Olga Ivanovna from court of appeal in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. So, colleagues, please, there is a common position of all factions, there is a committee position, everyone supports this position. Please concentrate, there are simple voices in the room, you need maximum concentration. I'll bet on the 3581-29 vote, Efimov Olga Ivanovna. Colleagues, please support. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please, do not move away from your workplace in a disciplined manner. We're voting 3581-29. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:38:36]] For 226 Decision taken, colleagues. The next one is 3581-30: Svetlana Mikolayevna, who is the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Decree 3581-29 adopted. Next up, 3581-30. Colleagues, Koval Svetlana Mikolayevna are also crimes against Majdan. I'm asking everyone to concentrate, I'm asking everyone to pay attention, because we're voting in a voice. Please, 3581-30, Cow of Svetlana Mikolayevna. Please support this decision and vote. Please, colleagues, carefully, every vote, please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[13:39:29]] For the 220. Six votes. My colleagues, I'll put it again, I see they're not there, I'll put it again, colleagues. But this is the last time I'm going to put it to a vote. Colleagues, please prepare and please enter the hall, not come out, but come in, colleagues! Colleagues, don't go out. Come into the hall. Please come into the hall, I'll put the vote to 3581-30. Colleagues, please 3581-30: Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support, 3581-30. Vote, colleagues, please support. [[13:40:31]] For 219 We're short six votes, colleagues. That's a lot -- six votes. I'll do it again, colleagues. That's it, that's it, that's it. Colleagues, this is the final decision. We voted everything. Remember, the camera, we've all voted and we've already sent it. We have the last one, that's 3581-30. Cow of Svetlana Mikolayevna, colleagues. We're going to have another vote on it. Colleagues, there will be no more discussion, colleagues. There's either voices or there's no voices. There's only one decision left. Colleagues, voices, or none, we will not take them from heaven. So I say, please prepare for the vote. Are you guys ready? I'm voting on ruling 3581-30: Mr. Svetlana Mikolayevna to release the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Please, colleagues. Please vote, please. Please vote. [[13:42:14]] For the 220. Six votes missing, colleagues. I just want to talk to you right now. Don't make any noise, colleagues. I want to address the question that we started with from the beginning, it is our duty. And when someone thinks that without a vote, they're just going to end the session, that's not true. We'll wait for the deputies, we'll gather them. The president of Ukraine, when he had a conversation with him, made a strong request that all the judges who had crimes against Maidan be released today. And here. It's our common position, it's not just the position of the President, although it was his initiative. This is the position of all of us together. We'll sit, we'll vote until we find those six votes, colleagues. That's the story! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, don't make any noise, I'll make it, colleagues! So a colleague who thinks he's going to end the session without a vote, that's not true. We'll wait for six votes until they come. Here we go, fellows! And now, while we're waiting for them, as we gather them, I will traditionally give the word to all the heads of factions, according to our good tradition. Let's go, let's go, let's No, there won't be a break, we'll wait for voices, colleagues. That's it! Please, colleagues! Now I give you my word. From Peter Dustenk's Block, who? It doesn't, does it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, don't split up, there'll be a vote. There will be a vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] In five minutes. In five minutes, there'll be a vote, colleagues. Attention! I'm asking everyone, I know who needs to come out for a few minutes. Then we are. Now 13.43, at 13.55, let's go to the vote. Okay! At 13.55, we move on to the vote. At 13.55. Please, Mr. Chubarov, please. Chubarov! Mr. Chubarov. Turn on the microphone. It's not a break, it's a faction statement, a colleague. I'd like to point out that the break is not announced. The factions are about to come out of the factions, 10 minutes. In 10 minutes, when the factions end, there will be another vote. Please, Chubarov, from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u256	Please turn on the microphone. Turn the microphone on, please, on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u257	I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the speakers from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u258	It's working now, isn't it? Dear colleagues, today in Moscow there is a meeting of the Supreme Court of Russia, an aggressor country, to ban the mosque of the Crimean Tatar people. We are expected to approve the previous illegal courts of the Russian occupation. To be honest, we're discussing before filing an appeal to the Supreme Court of Russia -- the aggressor countries, the countries that occupied our land -- we don't recognize that. But we agreed with our partners' calls, particularly the Westerns, to demonstrate once again the inability of any dialogue with Russia, even though in terms of freedom and the lives of people. Why am I saying this? I'm saying that to us. Our hall needs to be cleaned in the middle of the country and we need to fight the aggressor together. A few days ago, we approved the Supreme Council's ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u259	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u260	on the non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the newly elected State Word. Sadly, many did not vote in this room. We didn't call names, we didn't blame them. I'd like it now, in five minutes, not to be blamed by the factions together, to vote in favour of the rulings that have been passed, and to clear the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u261	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko National Deputy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u262	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There was no more disgrace in this House. Perhaps the events now taking place can be compared with those of January 16 when laws were passed in the same sense. I'm talking to my esteemed colleagues at the Peter Dusty Block. How must we not love and despise the Ukrainians, the President himself, the Ukrainian Parliament itself, in order to humiliate him so! The whole country sees that your cards were votes, and now they're gone. And throughout the country, we vote 20 or 30 times. This is the humiliation of every Ukrainian who went to the polls, choosing one or the other political powers, for he calculated that politicians would be responsible, that politicians would be honest, that politicians would protect Ukrainians. And you're protecting the Mafia and corruption!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u263	Thank you. National MP Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, who are the remaining judges? If you take the draft rulings, all these judges go in threes for the worst, bloodiest events at Dynamo Stadium. You all remember, these were the events when the first victims began shooting. Those who suffered and were brought to justice by beatings were the ones who approved the decision. We fired one of these judges, and two others, who were in the same three, remain. I have an offer: to break for 15 minutes now, to all the deputies who were then serving Yanukovich, who were then in Midan, to come out here, to Dinamo Stadium, and to look at the land that was in the blood then, and then to drive this powdery fraction into the hall, and then to vote. It is a cry of conscience! How can you do that when a session is specially convened – and then the key leaders of the BP faction hide from responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u265	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u266	The judges won't help you in the Kyiv Court of Appeal, because it's a disgrace when their decisions stand up for your businesses, your factories, your factories. Think of the weight of such a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u267	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u268	Two phenomena. One is pathological dependence. It's a pathologically dependent power on each other. Depending on the clan of oligarchs, ordinary bandits on the nation’s budget. This is an illustration of the pathological dependence that has been in Ukrainian politics and Ukrainian power for 25 years now. But on the other hand, there is an epic battle in the hall today. Well, for the first time in 25 years, we can see how it lasts with a partial victory. You don't have to bring them into the hall. They're in the hall. They have voices in the hall, but the pathological dependence and fear of the oligarch simply paralyzes them. Vote, boys, and do your thing. a functional responsibility to their children. Not in front of those who. whom you despise today, in front of your children and in the future. You're not getting them out of the country. This may not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u269	Thank you. National Deputy Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u270	So it was that Midan was mentioned here today. And remember, a lot of my colleagues here were in those courts, judging those people who were beaten up very often, who were completely frozen. And instead of really making fair decisions, these courts actually let them play where these people are. Well, to mention all this horror, we can do a lot of things. But I think it's a matter of honor for each of us today, we've talked so much about us standing on Maidan for a few months, and today in this room, I don't think we should break up. And they should also show that we are able to stand, at least until evening, at least until 24 hours. You can dial the phone number of your colleagues who have to come here and just click on the button. It was much easier than there to show us all the things we could show. And actually, the people, I think. The people saw it all in Maidan, the people were there with us, and we are here today in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u271	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u272	We have no right simply to betray those people and those condemned people, and that people, our Ukrainian people, who demonstrated heroism in Maidan, and we today have no right not to come into this room, not to press the button and not to execute the people's will to punish those who judged the landowners who made decisions against the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u273	Thank you. I'm still asking from you. National Deputy Germany, Opposition Block. Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, it is only part of the iceberg that has arisen as a result of the usurpation of judicial power. We have essentially a constitutional crisis and a political crisis, we have to admit that. What are we talking about? You'll see what these attacks are, they're elements of parliamentaryism when they're accusing factions, factions, factions? It's unacceptable. Therefore, I would like to recall that we still have 700 judges ahead of us, hundreds of judges who, from the presentation of some of my predecessor's representatives, have told them not to fire them; they have been four years old as a retirement age; they cannot be dismissed. What's that? This is the silent floating Inquisition. It is unacceptable to date, my friends, and we must admit that we have created an artificial problem of the judiciary, we have deprived the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u275	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u276	Thus, we have deprived the people of access to justice, provided for in article 55 of the Ukrainian Constitution. It's our fault they can't work, we have to admit it. Let's get the shiners and go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u277	Thank you. Any more factions from the factions? Then I ask you to call the deputies to the hall. Deputies! The Honourable Heads of factions! I'm asking you to call your deputies to the hall. In the meantime, perhaps there are speeches by the deputies? Would any of the deputies like to make a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u278	Colleagues, all the factions have entered. And now I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and I'm asking them to come to the hall. Please. At 55, as I said, we'll move on to making a decision. We have two decisions: Cowl Svetlana Mikolayevna, Bartachuk Ludmila Victorian. Everyone please come into the hall, colleagues. We'll wait a minute, two, three, we'll wait, colleagues. I want to tell you while the MPs are going to move us back to January-February, when we were in Maidan, if we were to move us when we were fighting to Midan for food, when we were fighting to Midan for wood to heat people up at night, if someone said then that mayan would win and we would be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine most of the 300 votes of the European Ukrainian forces and would not be able to make decisions on judges who were committing crimes against Maidan, I don't think anyone would believe in the moment that it's possible. Dear colleagues, the heads of the factions are who were at Maidan. There are MPs who were at Maidan. Now every MP has the power to pick up the phone, call his colleague and ask why you're not here, why you're not in the hall, why you're not voting. This is a test of our Parliament's ability to meet those ideals and criteria that were in Maidan. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. We're gathering deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're coming in, colleagues. Nothing, we'll wait. We stood on the barricades at night, and nothing happened to us. We'll wait until everyone's in the hall. Please come into the hall, everyone who's in the towers. Everyone, please come into the hall. Are you guys ready? Please enter the hall, prepare for decision-making, colleagues. Please come into the hall, prepare for making decisions. I'd like to inform you that we have four other decisions that before the questionable have not been heard, this is Makuha Andriy Anatoliyovich, this is Marcinkevich Vitaly Anatoliyovich, this is Demidovska Alla Igorovna, this is Poda Sergey Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Repeatedly, the name Berezenka was mentioned and it is fair to give him the word for replication. Please, Brezenka, one minute. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, my name has been mentioned many times. I'd like to refer to the leader of the Fatherland faction and the Fatherland faction who allowed these words to my address. From the very morning I have voted in favour of the release of those disgraceful judges who are guilty of all the events that took place in Maidan. In fact, I was away for 30 minutes. I'm back and I'm going to give my vote for the release of these judges. To the leadership of the faction: I would like to remind you where your voice was when we were voting here on the decision not to recognize elections to the State Duma of Russia on the Crimean Peninsula, which is Ukrainian. Your voice was gone. So please keep an eye on your faction and BP will vote for the release of these disgraceful judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u280	Thank you. Please come into the hall. One minute, Julia Timoshenko. And we're going into the hall, colleagues. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u281	Dear friends! I just want to say very clearly about the voting in the Duma. We don't recognize these choices. Secondly, our faction voted. And thirdly, I'm very glad that what I did worked, and I named the closest people of President Poshenko of Ukraine who didn't vote for the release of judges who made decisions against the courts -- it worked. And if these deputies are now in the hall, that means that maybe Dusty weighed all his reputational risks and let his deputies go back to the hall and vote for these judges. And yours, Mr. Speaker, was the right decision not to disperse until all the votes were cast. This means that the President has to choose or lose the support of the people or drive his deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word. I have one very big request, and I'll give you my word. We have a goal, we have a goal to vote on. I think the more conflict between us, the less chance we have to vote. So I'm asking everyone who takes the floor, doesn't put conflict in the room, we don't have a vote, we don't have a few votes. And I think it's better to encourage colleagues to enter the hall and not cause conflict between factions, not cause conflict between MPs, because that could lead to a failure of voting. Please come into the hall, let's move on to making decisions. I'm about to run a rating vote on how many of us there are. So, colleagues, let's get ready for the rating vote. Please enter the hall, please. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. The MPs are up, we're still waiting a few seconds, please. Mr. Arthur. Please, colleagues, we're about to conduct a rating vote to see the state of mobilization in the hall. Colleagues, please take part in the vote, colleagues. Please vote and support the vote on the Supreme Council's mobilisation capacity. Please vote, please. [[14:05:28]] For 205 I see they're not all there. Please, welcome, look who's gone. I'm going to say by factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 75, "The People's Front" is 53. Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 23, Parenthood - 15, Radical Party Oleg Laska - 19, Rebirth Party - 2, Will of the People - 2. Now you can look at who's not here, invite them, tell me there's a lot of deputies in the dining room. I ask the representatives of the Apparat to inform everyone who is there that a decision is now being made and to invite them to the hall. Colleagues, please inform and invite us to the hall and ask the factions to see who is not here and invite us to the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. People come in, people come in, people say yes. Please come in. They come in, people pull up, we wait. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. As long as they come in, please, Lapin, one minute. And please, we're waiting for you to come into the hall. Please, Lapin, one minute, turn on Igor Lapin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, I am one of Midan's regular self-defense fighters. And here, I know, quite a lot of people who came to Parliament thanks to Maidan. Enough piranhas on blood! I'm asking you very much to stop blaming each other, who's the greater revolutionary or who's the smaller revolutionary. I very much ask representatives of all factions, call your deputies, who belong to your factions, and those who are non-fractional. Please come into the hall! So let's make that decision and put a dot on that question, at least for today. Let us stop thinking that we are separated, let us consider what unites us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u284	Heroic glory! My colleagues, I'm going to put the vote on again. Although it's unpopular, I'll put it back on the ratings vote. Please come into the hall, please take your jobs. And, colleagues, I see a few more from the People's Front MPs, some from the Peter Prashenko Block. I ask you to vote again, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Vote, fellows! Please take part in the vote! Please. [[14:08:42]] For 213 There's less. Who didn't make it? Sidorovich, the card didn't work. It didn't work, did it? Let's go then, colleagues, now we are. A few more deputies have come up, and we're about to move on to making a decision. Please invite who you can into the hall, colleagues! We're literally missing a few deputies. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please prepare. I remind you, we're looking at judges who are offering to relieve us of the position of judges who have been charged with crimes against Maidan. There's a 3581-30 resolution on the table right now. Order for the release of Koval Svetlana Mikolayovna from the office of Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev in connection with the breach of an oath. Now I'm going to take this decision and put it to a vote. I ask you all to come into the hall and take part in the vote. A few deputies came after our last vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs so they can vote. And I'm putting the 3581-30 to a vote -- to release the Cowl Svetlana Mikolayovna from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. Those who support this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:10:44]] For 218. Six votes missing, six votes missing. I'd like to invite you. Six, yes. [[Noise Nodes]] Eight, yes, eight, eight. I think we can totally do it. I asked you to do it during the break, another MP came in. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I ask everyone to be disciplined. Colleagues, two, three votes and we can close our session, we just need to get together, be disciplined to vote. Last time the card didn't work, I think we'll be more careful this time, Ruslan, to make it work. Are you guys ready? Ready, buddy? Is everyone in the workplace working? Colleagues, I'm putting the 3581-30 ruling to a re-vote – to release the Coval of Svetlana Mikolayovna from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful that the cards work. Vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[14:12:39]] For 219 Seven votes. Seven votes. Seven votes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please call the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I was told that there was a portion of the deputies in the towers. I'm asking them to call. Once again, I will put these decisions to the vote again and again. And everyone has access to the vote on those orders. These are the principles for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is principled for all who have come to Parliament, appealing to the values and slogans of Maidan. So I'm asking you to call your friends right now, call a colleague who's not involved, and call the room on the left. I ask you to prepare again for the vote, colleagues. Please. I emphasize that the Rules allow me not to go back, but to put as many times as possible. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take the job, and I'm going to put to the vote again Order 3581-30. I ask you to prepare for the vote and invite people into the hall. I'm putting to the vote Order 3581-30 on the release of Kowal Svetlana Mikolayovna from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev in connection with the violation of the judge's oath. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[14:15:45.]] For 217 Colleagues, factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 81, National Front – 58, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 22, Radical Party – 21, Father's Party – 17, Radical Party of Oleg Lachka – 19, Rebirth Party – 1, Will of the People – 2. We had more than Rebirth and the Will of the People. Is there any way to invite you to the hall? Colleagues of the Will of the People, of the Rebirth! Colleagues, 7-8 votes! All right, colleagues, let's do it again. Come on. Yes, please. I'll give it to you. Let's do the factions again. Colleagues, you tell me if there's any point in whether or not you have the potential to invite people. Peter Dustenka's Block. Berezenka, please. Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u285	Mr. Head! It's 2:16. I would like to arrange for our meeting to take place. did not lose the form of legitimate, put the session to 20, 30, 40 minutes for the extension of the session -- how long it takes for us to continue to vote. Because now it will be accused by the same judges in the same court. Let's stick with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u286	Thank you. I would like to report that the next sitting is not in the form of a regular meeting. We work until the daytime order is exhausted, we work until the daytime order is exhausted. Next, the People's Front. People's Front will think about who. The Radical Party, then the People's Front. I ask you to answer the question of whether we can reach out, invite in, and wait for the deputies. To answer that question. Please, Radical Party. Easy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u287	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, when you call and ask the deputies to come, you are not only humiliating yourself, and they are not humiliating you by their appearance. This is how you humiliate the entire Ukrainian Parliament, and most importantly the Ukrainians. Here we are, fellows, specifically calling the names to take the word and answer, here we are, colleagues Berezenko and Cononenko just holding the fools here, two of them coming in, and 10 of the other MPs from BP are gone, and they're putting up cards. Ten minutes ago there was a colleague of Davidenko from my Bahamas in Montenegro. Valera Davidenko, go back to the hall, from Bachmach the murdered on Maidan the boys are who are buried in the Bahamas, and today you, without voting for the release of these judges, are covering these murderers. That's why we don't have to hold on to fools. Come here and vote, not hold Ukrainians for fools and your colleagues in Parliament. He's young enough to fool us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word for a lineup. It was called. Please, Berezenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u289	Well, it's hard to comment on a person who works in Parliament solely for his own pyar, not for the work of an effective parliament. But for today's next session, there really are a lot of deputies who are on board or who haven't been able to do it for technical reasons. Today, the faction is mobilized as much as possible. Now let's raise our tails not only to BP, but also to a colleague from the Fatherland, a colleague from the Radical Party, colleagues from other factions, and make this vote effective, all the more so that this potential is today. I call upon all colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, as well as other factions, to enter the hall and vote in favour of these few decrees. And to Mr. Oleg. There is no Mrs. Corchinsky, whom I have great respect for. Well, maybe you'll find a way to invite them into the hall. Or Kocheljeva, an outstanding MP who could also support this beautiful vote that is necessary for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u290	From the People's Front, who will have the word. Burbak. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon all responsible and state deputies to return to the Hall. I remember how hard it was on February 20, but everyone was in the hall. Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. Everyone was in the hall until all the laws were passed and the order of the day was exhausted. We will be here in the hall until everything is voted. Because, at the President's request, you've organized an emergency meeting, we've come together from all over Ukraine and it's the responsibility of every MP to be in the room and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u292	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" is Ivan Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u293	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What, then, is the main problem today? Because this Parliamentary meeting is being convened to put Ukrainian national MPs on display by fools. Because at first the President appears to want Parliament to meet, and then the faction that bears the name of the President of Ukraine begins. There was a vote in this room, where there were 235 votes, and now there's a vote of 215. Can you please tell me where the 20 votes were? It's very easy to analyze. 20 votes disappeared in the BPT faction. Where are those 20 voices? They followed the team in the BPP faction to take down the vote. You're paying attention to Fatherland. We have 17 votes, we're the smallest faction in Parliament. Mr. Sergey, the votes are missing from your faction. Therefore, the question of whether a vote on the judges who have planted the courtship has been lifted falls personally on the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u294	Self-help. Oleg Berezuk, please. I'm asking you to talk about whether there's a potential for reaching votes. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u295	As soon as one of our colleagues comes back and lands at the airport and comes here, we'll have one more vote, so that's good. But one more thing, we support a colleague, there was this principle in Maidan when it couldn't stand. Right now, we just have to stand there, sit in the hall until the boys from BP and the girls show up and vote. This is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-29-m0.u296	Colleagues, we've got a few more deputies in the hall, and I'm going to put it to the vote again. Perhaps we already have a positive decision, perhaps. I'm asking you to take the jobs of everyone. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, I'm voting on Order 3581-30. The release of Koval Svetlana Mikolayovna from office of the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Everybody in place? Wait, wait, they're coming in, they're going in. Come on in. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. Please vote. [[14:23:50]] For 221 Five votes, colleagues. Five votes! How long until your colleague at the airport is here? Colleagues, five votes. The factions. "Block of Petra Dustenka" – 83. [[B in m in s a l in]] "The People's Front" – 58, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 23, "The Father's Party" – 17, Radical Party Laska – 20, "The Rebirth Party" – 1, "The Will of the People" – 2. Colleagues, five votes. We can invite them into the hall right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] My point is that there are 10 people in the room who do not vote. Nine people in the room don't vote. We invite them to vote 7 from the Peter Prashenko Block and 2 from the People's Front. We invite them to vote, and I invite everyone to the hall. And we're going to try again now to make a positive decision. Please come into the hall, there will be a vote. Please. My colleagues, I'll put it again. Please ask everyone in the room to take part in the vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please take up jobs, please. The fly is voting. Everybody's in place, right? Everyone's in place, and I'm voting 3581-30, and whoever supports this decision, please vote and I'm asking you to support it. Colleagues, let's be careful with all the cards, all the votes. Ledovsky's fine, one second. All of them. Please, let's vote. 3581-30. Please vote, we support colleagues. Please vote, please support. We're voting on our colleagues, please. Please support, everyone in the room. [[14:26:11]] For 225 One vote, one vote. I'm begging everyone, I didn't make it, I didn't get one vote. I'm asking everyone to get ready. Colleagues, everyone, please prepare. We're moving now. Three votes, and I'll close the session, colleagues. All we have to do is mobilize as much as possible, be careful. I ask my colleagues to vote responsibly for our Parliament, to prepare, to take up jobs. And then I'm going to put together all the decisions that we've made so far. They weren't supported. Very careful! I'm voting on the order 3581-30: the release of the Cowl Svetlana Mikolayovna from the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal. In general. Those who support this decision, colleagues, please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote, colleagues, I support, carefully! Everyone, please! Please vote. [[14:27:24]] For 223 That means there are voices, there are voices, there are colleagues. I'm going to vote again. Colleagues, please come into the hall, two votes, we're about to go to the polls. Then I will, Julia Volodymyrna. I'm afraid when we get into the faction discussion, we'll lose those votes, I'll give you my word. My colleagues, please, weren't all very careful. We all see what the voices in the hall are, howling the halls are. Please take your jobs. There are voices in the hall, please. Not everyone got to the workplace, not everyone got to the point, not everyone realized that we were voting for all of us, and not us who were ordinary citizens who were going to Midan, were condemning them for their civic position. We are responsible, colleagues, for those who have chosen us. Not everyone understood it at once. We will put the vote again, and I am convinced that everyone in the room will vote. Once again, I put to the vote decree 3581 on the release of the Cowl Svetlana Mikolayovna from the office of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev for violating the judge’s oath. I ask you to vote, I ask you all to support and vote carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please vote and please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting in a group, we're voting in agreement. Please. [[14:29:13]] For 225 One voice. I didn't make it, someone didn't make it, someone irresponsible didn't make it, colleagues. Please don't leave the hall, colleagues. Don't come out of the hall, colleagues, now all of Ukraine is watching us, all of Ukraine is watching who's in the hall, and who's coming out of the hall. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, and I'm asking nobody to stay out of the hall and keep an eye on them. Please prepare, and I'll re-vote 3581-30 on the release of the Cowl Svetlana Mikolayovna, judge of the Court of Appeal. I'll wait, colleagues. Back to your seat, please. I'm asking everyone to go back to work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stop arguing right now, get back to work. I'm asking you to go back to work, not create a conflict situation. You have a tendency to see the conflict end badly. I'm voting 3581-30 as a whole, colleagues. I'm asking you to go back to work. Mrs. Kugel, get to work. Please vote, please support 3581-30. Please support your colleagues, please vote for colleagues, 3581-30. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:30:51]] For 225 I can see I didn't make it, I can see that. Please remain seated, colleagues, all in place. I'm voting 3581-30. Colleagues, take your seats, please. I'm voting 3581-30. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please have the agreed vote, please vote on the colleagues, please vote on the vote. Please support your colleagues in a responsible and coordinated manner. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[14:31:46]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, now don't step out of the hall, every vote will matter. By factions, please: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 61, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 22, "Fatherhood" – 17, Radical Party – 20, "Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 2. Now don't break up, fellows, I'll bet one by one the next. Colleagues, be careful in the city. Keep your distance! Next order 3581-27: Bartschuk Ludmila Viktorovna for breaking her oath, for crimes against Maidan. Please vote, please support. 3581-27. Vote please, fellows! Please vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote carefully, do not move away from the workplace! [[14:32:46]] For 229 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, attention! 3581-9: Makuhu Andrija Anatoliyovich for crimes against Maidan. Please vote 3581-9. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Two more votes! Please be careful! Please vote, 3581-9. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[14:33:21]] For 228 Decision taken. Next, Demidkov's Alla Igorovna for breaking his oath (3581-13). Please. Demidov's Alla Igorovna. Please vote for the crimes against Maidan. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues. For breaking an oath, please vote. Please support, colleagues, there are voices in the hall. [[14:33:57]] For 229 Decision taken. Martsinkevich Vitalia Anatoliyovich (3581-12) for breaking an oath, please support, please vote. 3581-12. Please support the vote, colleagues, carefully. [[14:34:23]] For 230 Decision taken. And the final decision. I'm going to go to Sergei Mikolaiovich (3581). I'm going to go see Sergio Mikolaiovich, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, 3581-23, please. Last vote, please. Come on, come on, let's vote. According to Maidan, so is the judge of Maidan. Please, all in the group, the last vote. [[14:35:02]] For 229 It's been decided. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have passed all the rulings that have been put to the vote today. Dear colleagues, the celebrations for Baba Jar will begin. And I'm asking all of us, colleagues, to honor the moment of silence of all those who died in Baba's Yar, of all nationalities. Some 600 members of the U.N., Ukrainian patriots, Jews, Roma, and many other nationalities died there. We honor all innocently murdered in this tragedy. I invite everyone to a moment of silence. Please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, colleagues. We made important, responsible decisions today. We had an emotional session, and we adopted 29 decrees today. We fired 29 judges. I welcome everyone. Welcome to Parliamentary colleagues, and welcome to the committees and to all those who have participated actively in the work. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 4th at 10 a.m. Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you later.
