ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time given by the Break Rules is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready to sign up for the evening session. Please. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall and the heads of factions, too, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Then I'd like you, your honors, to sign up for the evening session. I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[16:07:34]] 357 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you a few things before we begin our work. We have the other half of the block, it's about finance and banking. And I really wouldn't want us to knock this block down so that we could take a full look at it. We have two vetoes of the President and one bill. And I have a great request to all my fellow national MPs that we go as far as possible through these bills so that we don't knock down the block of banking and finance. I'm asking you a lot because now the President's veto would pass very quickly, and there are actually positions defined and then passed. I think we can do it in half an hour, Mr. Fish. And then we're going to have an hour and a half per block of banking activity. I'm just calling everyone to a very intensive job. And I think we can make it through and through. I'm not taking the floor right now. Okay. We'll talk now. Colleagues, please listen to me. Each committee that brings out its own block is long prepared for it: both ministers and committee. And I ask you to be respectful, although some people think that issues may be more important than that, for the committee, all the questions that it raises are important. And so, with your permission, I'll start with the President's veto, then I'll start with a bill and we'll move on to banking. With normal system work, we'll be able to go through these questions in half an hour, because the President's veto, it has its own procedure, very short. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Then we start the discussion. I want to tell you again. Now I want to tell you what's going on. There is a delegation of the Belgian-Ukraine Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group headed by the head of the Dahlman Group. They're in our rostrum. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Friends, I want to thank you for your support in this difficult time for Ukraine, reflecting aggression, we are protecting not only Ukraine, we are protecting the whole free world, Europe, the entire civilized world. You understand that. Thank you for your support, and we look forward to your next cooperation and support. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, therefore, the President's veto. We move on to 2676 -- Ukraine's Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act on Remuneration of Pensioners and Disabled Persons Grants, with proposals from the President. I emphasize that he doesn't need a separate vote for a reduced procedure, we just have a report, then a question for the reporter and a co-rapporteur, and a question for the co-rapporteur. And by this procedure, we're going to look at it, and I'm going to ask you to work intensively and in harmony. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Olga Petrovna. Mrs. Ola, please report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's Ministry of Social Policy supports the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act on the Automatic Remuneration of Grants to Pensioners and Persons with Disabilities regarding its rejection. Housing subsidies are state aid, so it can only be granted on the basis of a person’s claim. A review of the allocation of grants to all pensioners and persons with disabilities without their application and the collection of relevant information without their consent is a violation of the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. It should also be noted that since the introduction of the bill, housing subsidies and simplified procedures have been substantially improved. In particular, according to the order in force, a person applies for a grant only once, and for the following term a grant is granted without a person’s request. In addition, since May last year, the need to provide any information, including income, about the income of those who have applied for subsidies, the socialist authorities have received information from the fiscal service and the Pension Fund in order to exchange information. Instead, it is proposed to return to the practice of providing information on citizens’ incomes for the purpose of granting subsidies. Thus, the question of the automatic allocation of subsidies for the next period to recipients of the grant is regulated by law. At the outset, an application and a declaration must be made. In addition, the issue of different ways of filing applications and declarations has been regulated, which may be the personal appeal of a citizen, and the application and declaration can also be made by mail and electronic means of communication with a view to improving citizens’ access to these services. In view of the above, the Ministry of Social Policy supports the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the rejection of the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 19 June 2015 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act on the Automated Remuneration of Grants to Pensioners and Disabled Persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. But we have three minutes on schedule -- questions from MPs, three minutes. Please record the question to the reporter, please. From the Radical Party to two. Okay, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to remind you that it was me, along with my colleagues from the Radical Party, that we were the authors of the bill, which provides for automatic payment of subsidies to retirees and disabled persons. We're convinced that in order for a person to get a grant, there's no need if there's all the bases in the Pension Fund, if there's all the bases in the social services, why do people go to social welfare applications to document and spend time doing that. If there's no income other than pensions, except social assistance, if this person is entitled to a grant, we think that these subsidies have to be automatically accounted for by the Pension Fund and social security departments. Unfortunately, President Poshenko vetoed this law, and we think it was a wrong decision by the President. So I'm going to all of my fellow MPs, and I'm going to beat the President's veto, and I'm going to be able to get the law in place, so that the pensioners can get the subsidies, for the people standing in the social security account department to automatically account for them. I advise the representative of the Ministry not only to go to Winnitz, where the transparent office works and works normally, as people say, but go to the villages, go to the malls, where people should take turns in the morning, where people of retirement age can't fill that paper because they don't give it advice. When single pensioners living in Kiev are taken, who will help them to form this subsidy? As a result, a person loses his right to receive subsidies. That is why we insist that pensioners and disabled persons receive grants automatically so that they are credited to the Pension Fund and social security departments. Don’t put your responsibility on people, don’t deprive our pensioners of subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u5	Please, Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. In order to assign a grant in accordance with the current grant arrangement established by Decree No. 848, there is no need to go personally to the granting body. A grant may be made by applying for a declaration or by e - mail or by electronic means, or by a social worker. The question of the recalculation of subsidies is settled in this way automatically without being asked. This is what is currently being done by social protection agencies without the recourse of pensioners and persons with disabilities to the recalculation of previously appointed subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u7	Thank you. And another question is, the Kugel of Alexander Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u8	Dear friends, it may be very evident that today we are considering two such important bills, which, unfortunately, the President has vetoed. He didn't veto the breach when they charged large rents, he didn't veto the gas market, he didn't veto the forced OSB and many other bills. And the bills that touch the poorest of the population, which, at such a difficult time, get into more trouble than getting subsidies, it's just, it's on me. It's just unacceptably neither politically nor economically. As deputy minister, I want you to hand over to the minister, very unfairly to the minister of social policy on the air, to show you the calculation of the grant. That means that the money you spent and every box you threw in your paper was spent in the wind. If you listen to his calculations, Mr. Speaker, you hear him, he said 2,000 dollars of utilities would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u10	will pay the family of two men on condition that they have income of two 50,000 dollars. They're standing! Who in the country has 50,000 dollars in income for two to pay 2,000? Then honestly, everyone who has declared income will not receive a grant, and all other countries will receive it. I believe that the non-admission of this bill is a confirmation of the genocide of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u12	Thank you for asking. I want to inform the people's deputies that today 5 million and 400,000 households are already receiving subsidies for the heating period 2016-17. In addition, there is an automatic recalculation of the grants already assigned. Thus, the right of Ukrainian citizens to social support provided for by legislation is ensured. In addition, I would like to point out that the forms of applications and declarations that have been handed out to citizens have been distributed just like this. To this end, citizens can submit a grant application to the public authorities without recourse.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u13	Thank you, Olga Petrovna, for taking your place. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and ZHQ Babak Alon Valeriyev. And, Mrs. Alona, I'm only asking you as concisely as possible, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u14	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, in exchange for the decision taken on 16 September 2015, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Amendments to the Law on Housing and Communal Services for the Recruitment of Pensioners and Disabled Persons at its meeting on 8 October 2015. The law provides for a simplified procedure for the appointment and provision of subsidies to social welfare by structural units to compensate for the cost of housing and utility services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid domestic fuel. According to part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine returned the Ukrainian Law with a proposal to reject it, noting that, according to the standard of part three of article 22 of the Constitution, Ukraine, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. The main scientific and expert office supports the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the President's proposals. The committee requests that the electronic database of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u15	Thank you. Colleagues! Please stay, Mrs. Alona. Mrs. Alona, the question is, return to the rostrum. There is a question for the coconspirator, Mrs. Alona, and I urge you to return to the rostrum to carry out your duties as deputies. I urge you to return. Thank you. Three minutes is a question. Please sign up, three minutes is a question to the co-rapporteur. Razwadovski Viktor Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u16	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u17	Please tell us, in your opinion, is it not complicated for the elderly, who are, among other things, cut off from the district centers and where there is often no bus connection, the formulation of these subsidies, such as the formulation of a declaration, the collection of other information? If there are no family members and no loved ones, man cannot do so on his own. And was it not right to suggest that, on the basis of the databases that are available, people's social protection units should automatically assign a grant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u18	Of course, we thought that was absolutely true, because the members of our committee were co-authors of this bill. At the same time, we see that unfortunately, the system works today in such a way that one must first express his desire to get this subsidy. And it turns out that automatically this is, so it has to be assigned to everyone without an estimate of income and property and so on. So in fact, given all the comments made by the Chief Executive and the President, we think we should support this proposal. But the problem is not even the recourse to subsidies but the feedback. People don't know at what point and when they're being assigned a subsidy, and they're walking along the thresholds, getting information about how much they need to pay. This is the problem — the absolute absence of feedback. They wait a few months to know if they are assigned. a grant or no grant. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u19	Thank you. And one more question. Corchin Oksana. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u20	Korchinska Oksana, faction of the Radical Party. Mrs. Olena, I have a question for you as a national MP. You gave us the position of committee, you're a man of principle. Are you in agreement with that position, personally? There are now hundreds of pensioners standing near the Supreme Council who cannot physically form this subsidy. People can't do that, they just won't pay. Mrs. Helena, I'm asking for your personal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u21	My personal position is to support this bill. At the same time, I understand that there are such questions as when even a pensioner, who is automatically to be granted a grant, has to confirm his property status. For example, many pensioners in rural areas have pies and today you have seen how subsidies were verified. People, in fact, in every pensioner who lives in rural areas and has pie, were asked to confirm that there is no rent or other problem. So somehow all people today fall under the system of verification and refinement of their data. So I think it doesn't automatically happen in the reality of our day, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u22	Thank you, Alona Valerievna. Mr. Oleg, why don't you support the Fisherman, his committee, so we can get to him faster? Okay, there's still time. Lensky Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u24	Oleg Lazko. I'm talking to the government again. Farmers with pies do not have the right to receive subsidies. Please tell me, does that pie feed the peasant? No, it's not. In addition, the social standard of gas consumption has been abolished, the last heating season of 1200 cubes has been cancelled, and today every person, regardless of a hundred cubes, has to pay 7,000 dollars for a thousand cubes. We ask the government: first, to restore the social standard of gas consumption; second, when you praise that five and a half million households receive subsidies, there's nothing to boast about, because a person turns out to be unable to make money to pay for a utility. Thus, the wage line, which is doubled at the minimum, requires that pensions be raised at least twice as much in order to ensure that people do not need these subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u25	I think it was a performance, not a question, so thank you, Alona Valerievna. We're done talking, we're going to vote. So I'm telling you that the President's proposal is to reject the law in general, it's the first one, it's the second one to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. The Committee supports the President's proposal for a rejection and therefore these two proposals are based on the vote. There is no proposal, and that is why it will not be taken into account in the President's proposal. So I'm putting first the proposal under the Rules, and I'm asking you to vote down who supports it, to reject Law 2676. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. [[16:27:44]] For 109 The offer is not accepted. The next is to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports the President's veto, please vote. [[16:28:14]] For-173 The decision is not made. Draft Law 2676 has been rejected. Colleagues, and next. Please be more intense. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, 1076. I invite you to report to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Zubko Hennady Grigorovich. Please be as concise as possible, Mr. Hennaday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u26	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues! On 20 April 2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Ensure the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests, No. 1314-8. Next, the president of Ukraine returned the law with proposals. In support of the necessary improvements in legislation regarding the implementation of housing rights of residents, the President of Ukraine believes that such changes should be very balanced because they relate to the housing rights of citizens. Instead, the law violates those norms that may lead to rights violations because of their inadequacy with the Constitution and with the laws of Ukraine. First. The Act does not extend the Act on the enforcement of the rights of residents of hostels to residents who live in hostels but who have not been or are not in employment relations with the company, an organization that has granted them the right to live in a hostel or live in a hostel without the official registration of the place in the hostel. Thus, restrictions are placed on the exercise of the rights to privatize residential accommodation in hostels, depending on the availability of employment relationships and the official registration of residence. It is also established by law that a special warrant issued by a citizen pursuant to article 129 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code is the only reason for residing on a given residential area in a dormitory and non-residential area (paragraph two of chapter I of the Act). At the same time, Chapter IV of the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR regulates the provision of only residential space in hostels. Next. The law does not extend to dormitories built or acquired, as stated in the law, in Soviet times. At the same time, the time period "in Soviet times" is not defined in legislation, which allows for the arbitrary treatment of such a requirement. The law prohibits the change in the status of the dormitory after the establishment of the OSB by the owners of the dormitory. However, neither the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR nor the law of Ukraine on ensuring the realization of housing rights of residents of hostels is regulated on the issue of granting and modifying the status of hostels. The law to the authority of the local authorities granted the granting of residence permits under the Ukrainian Civil Code. The Civil Code also does not address the issue of residence permits. The implementation of a series of laws, such as the transfer of housing units to the property of local communities, the financing of such transfers, is linked to the implementation of the General Purpose Program for the transfer of housing units to the property of the communities. The law also establishes that the State Programme, which worked in 2012-2015, should be valid until the implementation of its measures or approval of the new programme for 2016-19 years, but not less than 11 years from the date of publication of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act. The program began on December 31, 2015. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has stressed that it is the 91th Budget Code that defines, in part, inter-budgetary reforms, that expenditure on housing and utilities programmes, in particular in the area of capital repair of housing units transferred to the property of the territorial communities, is part of the local budgets that can be implemented from all local budgets of any level. The law also provides that applicants for cases listed in article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests, disputes about the granting of such rights are freed from payment by a court of law when the case is taken up in all courts. At the same time, there has been a decline in the number of tax categories of persons who have been released from the pay of the congregation. Taking into account the above, and also taking into account the need for changes to legislation that take into account the housing rights of residents of hostels, the President of Ukraine proposes that the Ukrainian Act “to amend certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure the realization of the housing rights of residents of hostels” should be rejected as being contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, does not create appropriate legal mechanisms for the implementation, housing rights of residents of the hostel and contains risks of violations of such rights. Please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u27	Thank you. Please ask the reporter for 3 minutes. Please hold the recording. Please, Litwin Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u28	I have a question of that. Please tell me, how many people who live in hostels today, total number, and no other housing? And including how many people who live in dormitories who have been transferred to the statutory capital of enterprises and have essentially moved into private hands with people? If we show these numbers, we'll see what the problem is and what we should do next for what these people had over their heads is just a square metre of roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u29	First of all, I would like to point out that really, a large number of people today live in hostels that are not yet eligible for privatization. But since then, this law has stipulated that if a person is not in a working relationship or a person, according to this bill, has not been officially registered in such a hostel, he does not have the right to privatize himself in such a hostel. So we've restricted the right of a lot of people, which, first of all, we haven't defined what "radians" is, from when it started and when it ended. We haven't figured out how to be the person who worked at the company, but now she's no longer in a working relationship, and how to use her rights to privatize housing. And how was it that with a special warrant, the person was not prescribed or registered at the place of residence. So the question is that it's really an important question and it needs to be taken into account, but we can't limit the rights of those people who fall under it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u30	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. So say it in the microphone, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u31	Please pass the word Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u32	Jurassic, Oksani Jurinec. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u33	Dear Gennady Grigorovich! What I'm saying is that this Bill 1076 was very important, and it was really expected by all the residents of the hostels. In my district, that's three and a half thousand people, that's the center of the city of Lviv and that's a big problem, because the situation today, that's not solved. And I've been doing this for the last five years on the district council. In fact, there will be a lot of right, progressive things in some way to solve the problem that has arisen today, these are, indeed, people who cannot prescribe their children. I don't know what might have caused the situation that is now taking place, and we need to look at the veto right now. In my opinion, this is your ministry that didn't work because there was a program in 2012. As of today, the committee has actually done everything in its power, they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u34	30 seconds, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u35	This question cannot be left to the point, and the situation of today's hostages is such a large number of people, I think it's in your ministry's responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u36	I would like to say, first of all, that we just have to take into account the President's proposals and support them, and solve this problem, that's the first. Secondly, you know that this program hasn't been funded since 2014, it's a targeted hostel transfer program. And that's why the question is that this program needs to be implemented, first of all, it was in the budget that 2015, 2016 that we put this money into the budget. And just to say that this program wasn't used because it wasn't used, I don't think that's right. So I think that to solve this problem, we need to consider these suggestions. And I'll tell you, a huge number of people who live in hostels today who have no employment relations with an enterprise that should, so to speak, give the opportunity to realize privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u37	Thank you. And the last question-- Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u38	Dear Gennady Grigoryevich, this is the representative of the Peter Poshenko bloc, who said that it was the responsibility of the Ministry, but the veto is not the Ministry, but the President, yes, it is the President's responsibility. Article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that the State guarantees everyone the right to housing. This right provides for conditions under which a person can build a dwelling, rent it or acquire it. Does it not seem to you that the President's veto, for the sake of repealing this bill as a whole, without the formulation of any proposals, is such a secret wish of the President not to resolve the issues of millions of citizens who are not provided with their own housing and who are forced to live outside of a sufficiently comfortable environment, who do not live in their own apartments, in rented accommodations in dormitories, and to deprive them of any mechanism to privatize this housing in dormitories? If the President wanted to, he would not have offered to refuse in general. What's the offer? You say take into account the proposal and the proposal to repeal the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u39	I would ask our honourable colleagues not to manipulate the facts, but I started with the fact that the President of Ukraine is making proposals. And I've listed for you here on the rostrum the proposals that need to be included in this bill, by supporting these proposals, so to speak, to approve this bill. Specific suggestions: to exclude the requirement for employment relations, to register citizens' rights, to take into account questions and to determine what Soviet time is, to do simple things, to be able to take into account exactly what a special order is, and the things that apply to the text. I put them on the stand here as President's proposals, which are being violated and which are being violated by citizens' rights today in application of this law. And if you really want to support citizens, including those who live in the East, who are now in the sheltered businesses that no longer work, they also need to be granted the same right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u40	Thank you. Hennady Grigorovich, thank you for your report. I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the committee, Andriy Vasilovich. But I'm asking you very much for more flexibility, my friends, my colleague, we have a great deal of order in our daytime issues. Please, Andrew Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Very tight. Dear colleagues, the drafters of the bill are 22 national deputies. The bill was written a year in writing, and then after the first reading of each proposal, representatives of all ministries participated, for which we are grateful to them, including, above all, the Ministry of Mineregiobud. It's a direct association that protects the rights of the residents of the hostel, and we've accepted it with you on second reading. The president in his return, so he gave us a number of suggestions that the honourable Gennady Grigorovich gave us, and they are correct indeed. That's why the committee is a careful and working group of Gortozitka, and the Committee on Construction, Urban and HKG. I'm asking you, this is a very important bill, we've considered carefully every proposal and those, first of all, that came from Gennady Grigorovovich, and all of them, every one without exception. And that's why, given the relevance, and this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you asked, this is almost half a million people. And the important thing is that the President's proposals didn't touch the issue. The 16th article itself was about the possibility of people privatizing, including the dormitories that today are in statutory capital. There's a very civilized standard where we didn't get the President's comments, and there's statutory capital, both state and municipal. Therefore, taking into account the relevance and social significance, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Social Affairs decided to send the bill for re-reading. So I would like you, Mr. Speaker, to put within the limits of the Rules of Veto and all other things for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unlike the previous law, the committee here suggests not to reject, but to send it to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, the committee's offering. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know how to put it! I'm saying, what's the committee's proposal? I'm going to announce it now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell because you can't hear anything. So, I wrote the conclusion of the committee: send it to the committee for further work. Did I read it right? Yeah, suggestions. I'll put it all in order. But I remind you what the committee's decision is: to send you to the committee for work. And I hope that this proposal will be unifying. I will set out, as prescribed by the Rules, first to reject the law, then to overcome the President's veto, and thirdly to propose that the committee be sent to the committee for further work. Do we have a deal? Fair enough, isn't it? Then thank you for the report, the discussion is over, let's go to the vote, colleagues. I'll bet first. Once again, I'm going to put all three votes together. [[B in m in s a l in]] Questions? It's a question, isn't it? Excuse me, you've forgotten your questions. Please come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues, I am deeply concerned that the next committee may not hear itself disunited. We've been 45 minutes, and then the committee asks the question that you're fooling us, we don't come to the questions. And I'm trying to work harder. Let us briefly, two questions, please register with the co-rapporteur. Three minutes, please. Matthew Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u43	Hand it over to me as soon as
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u44	He's handing over Debenkov, okay. Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u45	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I have a question for the representative, more specifically, a proposal for a representative of the Main Committee who participated in the drafting of this bill. If there are no votes in this plenary room, we need to go to the President, because he has made some suggestions. In order for him to register an immediate bill that would address the problems of the residents of the hostel. After offering certain suggestions, he offered nothing but to reject the bill. I'm just addressing the committee and the opposition block faction will support this appeal. If the President wants to join in solving the problem. The housing problems of the residents of the hostel, let the introduction to the Supreme Council be as urgent as it often does on a matter of urgency to society, which concerns half a million citizens, so that the issue can be accepted in the Supreme Council if there are no votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u46	Please, Andrew Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u47	Dear colleague, we believe that the shortest way, the shortest way, if we don't get through the veto and if we don't support the President's proposal to reject the bill, the shortest is to pass it on to the committee for a second time, we have a month to do it. And then take it to the hall to accept the second reading again. And we'll take into account, I emphasize, the right proposals that the President has made. This will compromise all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u48	Thank you. And indeed, this proposal to the committee would seem to be unifying -- to return to the committee. And this is the shortest way to get it back into the hall. Next up is Wolf Victor Ivanovich, Radical Party, final question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u49	Please give my word to my colleague Dmitri Link.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u50	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, there's a figure in half a million Ukrainians who live in dormitories, actually, it's official data, and in fact, there's a lot more in hostels. And people of three, four people in rooms of 10 square meters live and have no right to have a right to their own housing to have it to sell so that they have any right to housing. So the radical party's proposal: we have to overcome this veto immediately, and there are votes for that, today there are over 300 deputies, and the room supports this decision so that we don't delay solving this problem. Because the citizens are waiting for the papers to be handed over to their homes, which they have earned in their labors, at last 25 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union. And we have the right to provide them. That's why we have to beat the President's veto as quickly as possible, and we think that the President's decision to veto this law was wrong. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u52	Well, I'm very short. In the bill, we laid down in detail who has the right and who does not have the right. And once again, in the drafting of the bill, a large, large group of residents of hostels, with different levels, different statuses of hostels, representatives of large associations that protect the rights of residents of hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u53	Colleagues, zero, zero minutes. And I give the word of Humil. Time's up. That will be really the last question. Mikhail Humil. Very short, please. He gives Igor Vasyun his word, responsibly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Igor Vasyunku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will briefly explain what is happening with the adoption of this bill. The point is that this bill has been blocked since 2012. Why? Because those who have adopted state enterprises along with hostels and people are not interested in adopting the bill. We have no right to overthrow this bill. We declare yachts, steamboats, villas, and so forth, and here we are not allowed to privatize 20 square meters to people who have worked for 20 years in a state enterprise!? The fact is that this law awaits the adoption of many thousands of families living in a dormitory. I propose to support the committee's decision, and send it to second reading, especially since the working group has taken into account all the proposals made by the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u56	Please, Andrew Vasilovich. Colleagues, time for questioning is up. Let's move on to making a decision. I want to stress once again: I'm going to put a motion to reject. My colleagues, I'm explaining that we have the word not by raising hands, but by writing. And there's no other mechanism. There is no other mechanism. First, to reject, then to overcome the veto and the third, to send to the committee for work. As I understand it, there is a unifying position that in order for this bill to appear again in the hall as soon as possible, we need to support the committee’s proposal: to send all three to the committee for work, but I will put all three of them to the vote. So the first is to reject the law. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote on who supports it. [[16:50:19]] For-68 The decision is not made. The second is to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[16:50:43]] For-188. The decision is not made. And lastly, I ask you to unite, this is the way for the shortest time to get this law back to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is to be sent to the committee for work, this is the conclusion of the committee, this is suggested by the committee, to be sent to the committee for work. So that we don't put it aside, we don't throw it away, we don't forget about people, let's support it all, all together. And I'm betting on voting the committee's proposal to send to the committee for work Why? Please support me, please vote. Please support, please vote, send it to the committee for further work, and we'll vote in agreement. [[16:51:34]] For 266 Decision taken. Welcome, colleague. And colleagues, we have the last bill from the previous block and then we move on to banking, the last one. 3038 and 3038-1. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I really want us to be able to do everything. Please vote and please support. [[16:52:14]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, please. You've waited so long for that law to appear in the order of the day. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. In fact, I thought they would never set up. Dear colleagues, I think today we have an opportunity to unite our efforts to show that this Council cares about real decentralization in places, cares about communities where gas is being produced today, and most importantly, lays down principles to actually increase the amount of Ukrainian gas produced in Ukraine. In fact, this project is aimed at ensuring a fair distribution of income from the use of oil, natural gas and gas condensates between different levels of budgets and ensuring the process of decentralization of power. In fact, today, 2015 - 2016, up to 70 percent of all permits were not in line with local authorities. The local authorities are very much asking, "What do we get out of producing gas?" The decision that we are proposing today is that today, according to the current Ukrainian Budget Code, the rent for the use of gas, natural gas, oil and gas condensate is included in the total budget in full terms. However, considering that work on hydrocarbons is deteriorating in the environment, some damage to local infrastructures is caused by damage to the health of the inhabitants, we consider it necessary to allocate a portion of the rent to meet the needs of local communities. This isn't our Ukrainian know-how. So much more than in 30 countries, in fact, the distribution of revenue from the use of natural resources is for the benefit of local communities. In Canada, for example, in provinces rich in natural resources, such as Alberta, the share of income from compulsory resource payments reaches 25 percent. We suggest much less.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u58	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u59	Thank you. We came very close, so let’s say cautiously to this question. And today you are asked to vote in favour of a decision that will allow local communities to get 2 percent to rural, rural and urban budgets, 1.5 percent to district budgets and 1.5 percent to appropriate district budgets. The remaining 95 percent are united communities, yes. The rest is fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u60	Another 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u61	Yeah. Considering that the bill is aimed at developing administratively territorial units and areas for the production of hydrocarbons. I'm asking you to support the entire hall. Among the signatories to this bill are more than 20 members of all of them without excluding factions. Those majors who represent the mining areas today, I guarantee you, the voters will carry you in their arms. Thank you very much and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Please welcome national deputy Oleg Kulinic, who presents the alternative bill 3038-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u63	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, the fair distribution of oil and gas rents is essential for economic decentralization. The population will be independent only if they have the means to solve the problems that these communities are facing. At the moment, the local budgets of all levels have no oil and gas industries, all the rent goes to the state treasury. I know this problem very well because I represent Poltavian, where oil and gas are one of the largest in the country. What compensation will the citizens of Poltavščina receive for the production? None! With such an industry accompanied by environmental degradation, roads deteriorate, roads break down, wells pollute water, other environmental problems. Bill 3038-1 as an alternative has already been registered, taking into account the questionable experience that I have encountered in my area. The bill proposes to include 90 per cent of the revenue from oil and gas production in the mainland of Ukraine, the remaining 10 per cent are proposed to be divided into the following proportions: 4 to the district budget, 5 to the district budget and 1 per cent to the budget of the area where the production takes place. The bill, supported by the committee, gives 95 percent to the state budget and the remaining 5 percent to the district, district, and local budgets, respectively, 1.5, 1.5, and 2 percent. So the basic and alternative bill offers similar solutions to this problem, but different models. That's why we, the authors of the alternative bill, are going to vote for both. And in the case of a 226 bill that supported the profiling committee, we're ready to join the copyright team to work out a good balanced bill for the second reading, which will, in fact, benefit the citizens where this is being done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to the committee's subcommittee on budget, Constantine Ischeikin, for the two bills. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u65	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies and invited! On 17 February, the Budget Committee considered alternative bills 3038 and 3038-1 on amending the Budget Code (as regards the distribution of rent for oil, natural gas and gas condensate naphtha) between government and local budgets. These bills are aimed at the development of administrative and territorial units in the area of which the production of hydrocarbons is being carried out and the development of fruitful cooperation between the oil and gas companies and the authorities of the local government. However, the bill's billing of part of the rent to the income of individual local budgets will result in an uneven distribution of budgetary resources among other regions of Ukraine. In addition, the implementation of the bill will result in the loss of government revenue. According to Minfin, these losses could amount to 2.5 billion dollars — for bill 3038 and 5 billion dollars — for bill 3038-1. The Ministry of Finance does not support these bills. But as a result of the consideration of these bills, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 3038 to the Supreme Council on the basis of its further development into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, according to the Rules, we can discuss these bills, and I'm announcing a faction record to discuss two alternative bills. Two for, two against. Please. Please, Mrs. Katzer-Buchkowska, from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u67	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The People's Front faction will support Bill 3038-d on decentralization of rent payments for the following reasons. Today, it is very important to increase the production of its own natural gas for energy security, the energy independence of the state. To do this, we need to invest and increase our own natural gas production. It is very difficult to do so when, in fact, local communities that have no financial interest in investing in their territories actually agree to natural gas production permits. This law therefore proposes to introduce a global practice of decentralization of rent payments in Ukraine so that local communities can also receive a portion of the rent paid by a gas company to the state. That is, 2 percent to rural, rural, urban councils, 1.5 percent to urban budgets and 1.5 percent to district budgets. This will also enable local budgets to receive additional funding for the development of social infrastructure and other projects. This will also enable closer cooperation between investors and the local community, which will result in not only an increase in natural gas production, but also an increase in the number of jobs, local budgets, and the development of local infrastructure. We ask very much for this bill because it will allow increased natural gas production, cost the cost of natural gas in Ukraine, and also to invest in the gas industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u68	Please, from the “Block of Peter Prashenko, ” the national deputy Kishkar gives the word to his colleague Solovia. Please, Yuri Solovay. No, it doesn't. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u69	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Thank you, Mrs. Head. In fact, we want to immediately declare support for 3038 and say that really community, this is mostly about the Poltava region, Kharkishte and southern Sumstin, waiting for the adoption of this law. Thank you to all who have joined in its development and, I think, to the second reading it will become more flexible and more understandable in order for Minfin to provide adequate support. I agree with the author who speaks of real decentralization, and this is the communities looking forward to it. Again and again we support 3038. Just one small remark, and we ask the authors to pay attention. The district councils are very slow to give the right permission to develop new genealogies about what we're saying that we have to increase our own production, or to change the kind of agreement that we already have. This is about increasing land areas when the actual size of the land is increasing and the corresponding land area is being changed, which is being allocated to the same EMU or private enterprise for the purpose of doing the work. So we ask you to take into account such manipulative things that are, in particular, happening in the Poltava region, where the Poltava District Council does not grant appropriate permits, including to the state-owned enterprise Crushing in order to increase its own gas production in order to ensure energy dependency. Please consider these wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u70	Thank you, Paul. And the word is "Victoria Vojcitsky" from the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u71	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. I would like to point out immediately that our faction will unreservedly support Bill 3038, which aims primarily to stimulate the decentralization of revenues into local budgets from rent payments. At the same time, we need to be clear that the State of Ukraine and the government have set ambitious plans to become independent of the import gas by 2020, whether we are talking about reverse gas from Europe or gas from Russia, so we need to increase our own production. And in this matter, the key is the support of the local authorities. And unfortunately, too bad, the events of the last six months, when not only were special permits suspended, but they were accepted by district councils for refusing to grant permits. And so the companies went around the circle -- getting their licenses back -- stopped our development. We have to be absolutely aware of what is at the expense of increasing our own production, which depends on the granting of permits that depend on local authorities and their desire for them depends on our independence. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill. And as for Minfin's remarks, I would like to point out that just when we get to the budget, we're going to be provided at the expense of speeding up the issuance of special permits by the local authorities that are going to be at it. After the adoption of the bill, they will be motivated not to delay making important strategic decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, from Rebirth Group, Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Resurrection" MP will also support the main bill supported by the profile committee. And if we accept it, we're ready to join in drafting an important bill for second reading. I wanted to point out that the authors of the alternative bill according to Kulinich and Billowal Alexander, who represent Poltavščina and Kharkushina, know in detail the problem. We got it figured out, because really in Poltavishland, people in Kharkish need help in solving these problems. So I would also like to thank the author's team of the main bill that supported the profiling committee, because, really, it's relevant, we've been waiting for it for a year. And we're voting the main and alternate that goes through, and we're working on the second reading so that we actually get a balanced constructive bill that becomes the law, and, in fact, that the local communities are self-sufficient and able to get the funds to solve these problems. And now I'd like to pass on the word to Sergey Kaplin for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u74	I'm sorry, we can't provide for a word. Seryozha, with all due respect. We'll go through the factions now. We'll walk the factions, and then we'll watch what's going on. Please don't sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't share the performance. Names were spoken. After the Radical Party and the Opposition Block come out. The opposition block was the first to raise the hand of the people's deputy, Matvienkov. Please. Debtenko. I'm sorry, please. Debenkov, then Easy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Well, without saying too much, I can say that maybe this bill is the brightest example of real decentralization. Not the decentralization that the president was talking about, but the decentralization that was initiated by individual deputies. The opposition bloc will unanimously support this legislative initiative, because it is undoubtedly aimed at strengthening the financial base of the territorial communities, both at the village, village, city and district levels. Unfortunately, though, the legislative initiative will not apply to all the local communities. Therefore, the further step to strengthening decentralization is to transfer all PFCs to local budgets and income taxes to local budgets to guarantee the financial independence and independence of the territorial communities, regardless of where they live: in the Poltava region, in the Kharkiv region or in other areas of Ukraine. So please support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u76	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, then Eutusek of Fatherland. And there, from the Opposition Block, several deputies raised their hand, but the first one was Dludenkov. So, dear colleagues, in faction, decide which one of you is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u77	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In my hometown of Chernigovishte, Talalayevsky, Warwick, and Prilutice, oil, gas are mined. The government budget pays hundreds of millions of dollars of rent each year. Hadyach, Lochvica in Poltavščina, was once called the capital of oil - gas Ukraine. But there's no water in the wells, there's no roads that weigh weights, and there's nothing in the tops of gold. Billions are paid to the government’s rent budget, and local residents have no opportunity to use the nadrama that the Lord God has sent them. That is why the Radical Party faction supports a bill that envisions leaving part of the local budget to solve the social problems of residents. This was supposed to be done a long time ago. And we call on Parliament to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u78	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland is the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u79	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland really supports all the laws that are deciduous. As far as decentralization is concerned, it's very important. But once again, I want to say that we work systematically. When the government gave us the budget and the changes to the Tax Code, is there part of the payment for special use that should remain in the local budgets? Is there a decentralization of taxes coming from logging? There are directly useful fossils of local importance, such as coal, which is also partly to be kept in local budgets? Yes, the bill on partial retention of rent relates to three areas: Sumska, Poltava and Kharkiv. Do we have any other areas? Dear colleagues, I would like us to work more systematically. Let's take as much as possible if in this bill, let's put decentralization taxes on other useful fossils. And we're going to propose to the government that they support and count, because with the Ministry of Finance, we're never going to decentralize.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u80	Thank you. Fifteen seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u81	Did you hear what the Ministry of Finance told us? That they're losing a lot of money. Of course, decentralization provides that part of taxes should remain in the community. Let us be more systematic and consider the budgets of the territorial communities as much as possible in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to remind you that we're only voting on a basis today. Mass of hands raised from the Opposition Block and from the Peter Dustock Block. But we don't have the Rules for the participation of two or three acting out of one faction. From the non-fractional, please for one minute, Lewchenko insists. It was mentioned, 30 seconds, Caplina. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u83	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, once again in this room, what is called decentralization bills is actually proposed by the country's de facto federalization. On one occasion, customs officials have voted in favour of leaving customs in separate areas of customs, and now they are offering to leave them in separate villages. Well, society may have forgotten, but nadra, useful fossils are the acquisition of the entire Ukrainian nation. And no village could have gotten a penny of the benefits from these nadrs if it hadn't been protected by the whole state of Ukraine, by the whole state, yes, not by itself. So now that it's proposed to leave the revenue from nadr at the village level, at the community level, and to forget the rest of the country, well, it's absurd, it's federalization. Such incomes can be left at the local level only if they go to meet environmental and infrastructure needs, only those that can truly suffer from appropriate needs. from the extraction. In such a way, this bill cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u84	Thank you. 30 seconds, please, Caplin. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u85	Dear friends, colleagues, fellow countrymen! The MPs of the Social Democratic Party, Alexander Sugonjako and Sergey Kaplin, are co-authors of this law, and we are co-authors, along with other millions of citizens, of the struggle for this bill, it was very difficult. I thank the inhabitants of Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Kharkiv, Poltavsk, Chernigiv, who have gathered with us almost. Suma area, which is with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u86	Thank you, your position is clear. Dear colleagues, a very important message before we go to the vote that will be announced by our esteemed speaker. First. The drafters point out that the bill does not cover three regions, as some have said here, but all the regions and districts where energy resources are being extracted that we are talking about. First. The other one. The drafters of the first bill (No. 3038) insist that the authors of the alternative bill 3038-1 be included in the co-authors, this is Oleg Kulinic, and I think the hall will support it. That's the second question. And the third. The authors ask, given that this bill relates to the budgetary process, to be voted on as a basis, but then immediately for a simplified procedure for preparing for the second reading to be taken into account during the preparation of the budget for 2017. Right? Please proceed to the vote now. And I give my word to our speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, we've had a very intense discussion and we can move on to making a decision, we're having a bank day. I'm asking very much that we work more intensively. Almost all the speakers supported the bill, all the factions, we can make a joint decision, only I ask everyone to come into the room and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (on the organization of the system of arrival and the use of the cost of rent for the use of oil, natural gas and gas condensate) based on 3038, just the basis, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Ready? All right. Colleagues. Let's vote now. Let's get them in the hall. I'm putting 3038 on the ground, colleagues. Please support and please vote. Please vote. [[17:17:21]] For 268. Decision taken. Hello, Mrs. Olu. We finally accepted him. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's a short-circuited procedure for preparing for second reading. Ready? Please support the reduced procedure for preparing proposals, the amendments to the second reading. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please. [[17:18:03]] For 246 Decision taken. Colleagues, we can move on to finance, banking, but I've seen that we have a day-to-day decision to hold parliamentary hearings. Can we vote it out, just vote it out, colleagues? No, right? Colleagues, Mr. Fish, Mr. Oleg. This is a parliamentary hearing. It's just parliamentary hearings. We'll have a bank day, colleagues. But we're going to ruin the banking day that the fisherman was preparing. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't talk about it without talking about it, okay? Mr. Bakumenko, me. Is Mr. Bakumenko in the hall? Can we move it, that bill so we can start a banking day? Colleagues, we have two choices, or we have to move. No, no discussion, if there's a objection, there won't be. Let's talk about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, order is order. I promised that if we didn't make it through banking, we would take the questions that didn't come in to the second day. So let's move on, as the agenda foresees, to the draft Resolution to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Agricultural Land Traffic Regulation: A Search for a Ukrainian Model" (5266). Please be as concise as possible, and I would like to support the discussion by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:20:17]] For 177 I invite the head of the Kulinich subcommittee to report, please, Oleg Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decree is scheduled to hold parliamentary hearings on 21 December 2016 on the theme "Agreement of the circulation of agricultural land: the search for the Ukrainian model". State decisions regarding such an important topic as the circulation of agricultural land cannot be imposed on people by any political force. To do that, we need to hear all of us: experts, scientists, agrarians, public organizations. And the main thing is that we need to hear the owners of the land, the owners of the pies, because it is for them that the situation is most painful. There should be a broad public debate at all levels, and this discussion should result in a social consensus. From year to year, we make political decisions regarding the extension of the land moratorium. At the same time, we do not take note of the fact that the shadow market of agricultural land is not only alive but also flourishing. We are also not paying attention to the fact that we are essentially depriving them of the necessary resources for treatment, construction, and other purposes. The opinions of experts and scientists on the introduction of agricultural land sales vary dramatically, some insist on the immediate introduction of the land market, and others recommend the sale of land in times of economic crisis and military conflict. Despite the active discussion of these issues by experts, scientists and politicians, the public, we do not yet have a consolidated view of a comprehensive model of land circulation in Ukraine. Therefore, according to the Committee, there is a problem with the holding of parliamentary hearings on the search for a Ukrainian model for the circulation of agricultural land. These hearings need to be focused not only on the lifting of the moratorium, on the sale of agricultural land, but on the views of all participants in the land relationship. What must be done to ensure that the earth is finally brought into circulation. We need to hear people take responsibility for shaping the Ukrainian model of this circulation. Therefore, a request for support is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u90	Please, from the Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk. He's giving the word to the leader of Laszko. We see the Opposition Block, we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A few weeks ago, Parliament supported our initiative to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. I thank all deputies who realize that it is impossible to sell Ukrainian land. Who doesn't know, thinks you can sell land, sell your land. Instead of touching Ukrainian peasants, rather than touching them, allow them to make money on the land so that they do not sit around with whole acres of pies, so that they do not sit in the bars. So we ask the government to leave taxes on farmers in the next year's budget, to re-establish state support programmes for the livestock sector, for vegetation, for rural jobs, for social services. Because someone who wants to sell land has to understand one simple thing: Latifunds will come, transnational corporations will come, and they'll come to the lamphouse with jobs in the countryside and the social sphere, they'll plant technical cultures, they'll make quick money, and Ukrainian peasants will walk in bars. That's why we won't let you sell Ukrainian land! Selling Ukrainian land is what your mother sells! Next. A huge problem today is raiding. Travelling, when landowners, farmers, peasants are quietly taken away from their property, their land, they're copied by some left-wing registrars. As it was in the Dnipropetrov region of the farm "Dar": the owner died, the body was not cooled, the property was taken away, and so far they can't bounce off those raiders. We have registered an appropriate bill in Parliament and we demand February 18th, the day before the agricultural workers, our distinguished laborers, conduct anti-rider hearings and protect the village, protect farmers, protect Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u92	Please, from "The Fatherland" is Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko. Eutusek, national deputy of Eutusek. My Lord, the People's Deputy Ivchenko, I beg your pardon, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, I just want to say thanks to the peasants and thanks to the agrarians, this Supreme Council has continued its moratorium. Fatherland held more than 30 agrarian forums in the areas, in the areas, we gathered a large village night, which came and said what concerns a simple peasant today. We emphasize that we are the only faction that has not voted to amend the Tax Code that has taken part of the taxes from the agrarians. We're the only faction that hasn't voted for the 2015-2016 budget that took taxes, including basic villages and villages. Today we offer a comprehensive model of transparent land and land relations. Is it not clear to us that farmers today have no funds to buy land, who will buy land today? Can you please count on what is happening to us today in the financial sphere, what is the pay-per-view capacity of a simple peasant? At last, these people will come here, come to the Supreme Council Hall and tell us all if we don't hear them on the field, under the Supreme Council and in the forums, how do they react to the market, how do they react to the raid and name the names of those behind the raids, and name the names of those who are lobbying for the sale of agricultural land today, or who are registering bills that go around the moratorium for sale? That is why we are behind this decree and will be included directly in parliamentary hearings. And I want to say that we will insist that the Supreme Council also impose a moratorium on emphitheus. This is the bill that some lobbyists are offering us today to go directly to a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u94	Mr. Wadim, thank you. Please, Kishkar of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u95	Please pass it on to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u96	Please, Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u97	Yuri Solovay, 79 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Poksat Dear colleagues, I would like to address those who are quick to campaign to continue the moratorium on the earth. I think that populism is one of the most disgraceful phenomena in Ukrainian politics today. In Ukraine, there are 25 years of moratorium on land, and what does anyone want to say is that in 25 years, peasants on earth have jobs? Does anyone mean that we don't have a moratorium on real latifundists? But only in Ukraine is there a moratorium on agroholding, which has hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. And that's why people who encourage the moratorium to continue are people who act in the interests of large agroholdings. Because Poland, Hungary, and Romania, which entered the land market 20 years ago today have small farms, are now busy in the countryside, today they have access to credit. And what's important is that they have an agrosector that gives more than 30 percent of the gross domestic product. Let's end populism. I stand for open parliamentary hearings to discuss pros and cons, but we cannot preserve the situation as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u98	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Wojcietsky. He gives the word to the leader of the faction of Mr. Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u99	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Let me ask you a rhetorical question: Is there an equal opportunity in Ukraine to be a man who buys land? Can an ordinary farmer who processes 50, even 100 hectares of land compete with a national MP who works for Ukraine for 10 to 15 years and has a million dollars in a mattress? He can't! Why continue this moratorium? In this room, two-thirds of which stands for exclusive latifundists or those who have a million dollars in a mattress, you and I have applied laws to level up opportunities in Ukraine. And this should be shown in the budget this year. This is a return to a special tax in the village, no matter what the IMF says. What's more, it's 10 or 5 billion, as the Prime Minister says, for the purpose of helping farmers. But farmers ask in what way! So that it is not again in the way that the oligarchs and latifundists receive it, and this farmer, who has 16 acres [16 ha] of land and five cows, who has 100 acres [100 ha] of land and 80 cows, will lose these things. So this room needs to discuss and make a decision that aligns the ability of a man who works on earth with a man who does not work on earth, has a mattress of one and a half billion dollars, and waits for the moment to make a fortress of the new era in Ukraine for the people who work on earth. That's what these hearings are for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u100	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, they haven't been able to log in, the word is given to Vasil Nimchenko and then to the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u101	Dear friends, I'd like to say to the BP and say, "Help yourself," my friends, don't blame your soul, read the Constitution, why are you tearing Ukraine at the level of the black people, at the level of the brown lands? I want to tell you one thing: It is unacceptable to change and ignore the Constitution, which has determined that the earth is the national wealth of the people of today's future generations. You want to sell it out, "Help yourself"? You know that, you run it, you can't do it. That is why we believe that it is unacceptable to turn the land into goods at all, and therefore to give indeed parliamentary hearings. Opoblok came up with the concept of land traffic regulation, read out, let's decide. You understand that this is the future and only survival system on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u102	Please, Yuri. We have to go to the vote. Yuri Timoshenko of the People's Front. And, people's deputies, please return to the session room, because just one minute after Yuri Timoshenko's speech, we are voting in favour of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order. There was such a lively discussion, but it takes 226 votes to support it. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u103	88 County, so is Hutzulska, and so is Poetry, Colomia. People of Ukraine, this betrayal began live before you. They start sweetly, all for the sake of one thing: to force the people of Ukraine to sell land. In 1991, when we got independence, we worked hard at all the factories, the factories, we didn't have any credit. Now we have billions of debts to the International Monetary Fund, we have a dollar that goes up every day, that's more. And it's all done for the sole purpose of never being able to repay these debts, so that at one point, we, without having to sell them, would have to sell the last: the land. And then they're going to say, "You guys, you can't even pay us your debts, we're going to take the billions you'll never be able to pay us back."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u105	And then you're going to go on a run to the volunteer boys from the Right Sector and the others and you're going to say, "Everything, you guys, is going to be, how many of your guys here have gone: 50, 100?" You don't have to, and now you go home, you don't need to protect anything anymore, we've sold your land!" Traitors! You're all going to get shot! Traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We can move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Agreement of the circulation of agricultural land: the search for the Ukrainian model." It's just parliamentary hearings, colleagues, it's not a matter of moratorium, it's a question of public discussion of the matter, so please unite, please vote together. Draft Decree 5266 on the basis and in general, please support, please vote, Ukrainian way and Ukrainian model, please. [[17:36:11]] For 228 Decision taken. Welcome to the decision-making committee. Colleagues, we're moving on to the "banking day" at 5:30, and it's a shame that we're going to try to do what we can. We will pass on these questions, which we will not be able to do today. Now, colleagues, I ask with respect to our committee to move on to these issues that the committee has proposed. The first is 4741, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to promote the development of currency-exchange transactions. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support, please vote. [[17:37:09]] For-153 153 – "for" And the report invites Ukrainian national deputy Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u107	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! In the bill that we're proposing to your mind, we want through it to ensure the childization, legalization of the currency exchange market that exists in Ukraine today. Today, there are a series of artificial restrictions created by the authorities, which essentially drive the exchange of currency into the shadows and bear additional expenses for ordinary citizens. What are we talking about? The fact that today there is a 2-percent pension fund from currency-exchange transactions that doesn't essentially cost the state budget, but at the same time requires the existence of illegal exchange centres, points and so forth. people to save, go and do these operations on the street where they're completely unprotected. That's what people lose, that's what the state loses. What is more, you know that today the National Bank requires the presentation and copies of passports in many such operations. So then we don't know where these passports go. A man goes to change $50, and tomorrow he gets 100 grand credit, and he won't know about it. In order to correct this totally disadvantaged situation, which is estimated by the Ukrainian Banking Union to have resulted in the thinning of the market for currency-exchange transactions in almost 50 percent, the Radical Party's faction proposes to abolish this collection from exchange-exchange operations of 2 percent, and to remove the mandatory passporting of these operations in order to ensure a normal free and legal market. Today, we have to do everything we can to remove artificial barriers to investment, to export, to such operations as entrepreneurs and citizens. There is no need to overshadow the economy, enough of these artificial regulations imposed by the National Bank and the government. Today the role of Parliament to change the situation. We have to start right now. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u108	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u109	I ask you to support this bill on the basis and as a whole as a law to send a message to the Ukrainian community, that the Ukrainian Parliament has finally embarked on the fight against the shadow market, including currency-exchange operations, and will contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u110	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u111	Dear friends, you have heard what this bill is about. So I'm just asking you to support this technical bill that was unanimously supported by the budget committee. And as we proceed immediately to the establishment, please recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 4741 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the Committee's proposals made in a letter to the Supreme Council, in particular as regards the entry into force of January 1, 2017 and the exclusion of amendments to the Act on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u112	Thank you, colleagues. Can we vote or should we discuss it? There's a discussion. Please include: two for, two against. Please. Amelchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u113	I give the floor to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lašk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u114	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this important bill. In fact, it's a completely non-technical bill, as one of my colleagues said, that's an extremely important bill that cancels a two-percent currency exchange assembly. This congregation is taken from people who change their $100, and 2 percent of it is taken from the congregation. We have to cancel this congregation so that we do not take unnecessary copies of those unfortunate copies from the Ukrainians. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u115	Thank you. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u117	The Self-Help faction will support the bill in its first reading. Undoubtedly, the abolition of this 2 per cent tax, in fact, the exchange tax, is the right solution. It was one of the factors behind the emergence of a black, illegal market for foreign exchange transactions and, moreover, was a fairly unfair solution, for example, compared with legal entities. But in this situation, we're doing imbalances in the budget, we're going to have to have a negative that we're going to have to cover to some extent, before we get to second reading, we need to figure out where we're going to take this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u118	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, please, Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u119	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u120	Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u121	Ivan Krulko faction of Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will support the adoption of this bill, because in fact, the introduction of the law on people's passports, when they exchange currency, of additional congregations has been introduced with one goal: to create the maximum complexity for a normal citizen to legally acquire or sell a savings currency. So, of course, this needs to be canceled and legalized, and the market that is in the shadows today is needed. But let's see what the main function of the National Bank is to maintain the currency stability of the bracelets. If you look at Mrs. Hunter's declaration, the head of Nazbank, she keeps all her money in dollars. Please tell me, is Nazbank's interested head in the stability of the national currency if she has all the money in the dollars? From just one collapse of three Ukrainian bracelets, it has tripled its savings. So, of course, Fatherland will vote for it. But, at the same time, we demand that this House put to a vote the issue of Mrs. Huntarev's dismissal from office for all activities and investigating all the actions of the National Bank in bankruptcy of artificial Ukrainian banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u122	Thank you. And the last performance is Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u123	Please give it to Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, I want us to understand with due consideration what we're voting on, we're voting now in favour of the 2% currency-buying assembly, and these congregations are going to the Pension Fund, the sum of the congregations is 260 million dollars a year. So understanding that now and so on, with the downsizing of the only social contribution, the Pension Fund is underfunded, do we have the right to vote to increase this gap even more? For example, only 204 million are available in the part of the budget to treat our citizens abroad. So I think that if we vote, we have to be responsible and considerate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Almost all speakers expressed their position that the bill could be supported on the basis of the bill. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Okay, Nazbank supports this proposal, as the committee head told me. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on facilitating the deterrence of currency-exchange transactions (4741) on the basis of colleagues. Just on the basis that we get the votes. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the ground. Please be supportive. [[17:46:44]] For 247 Decision taken. I want to work hard for second reading, colleagues. Now we're going to chapter two of our agendas -- these are the draft laws of second reading. The first one to be considered was 3,498. The author asked for a transfer, so we cannot go into consideration. We move on to 3739 – this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the regulation of the features of licensing for economic activities for the provision of financial services. There's only 17 amendments here, colleagues, it's going to be a very quick job. And I very much ask that we work hard. And I now invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking by Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, your view is proposed by a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Settlement of the Features of Business Licensing for Financial Services, Bill 3739. I'm not going to repeat the essence of the bill and the changes you have in the table are marked. I'm just going to say, there were 53 proposals made by the people's deputies, of which there were totals of 27, taken into account in fact - 6, edited by one, partially counted - 2, rejected - 17. The proposals taken into account are essentially of a juridical and amicable nature. What I'm saying is that the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration have also been worked out and taken into account to a large extent. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to regulate the features of the licensing of economic activities for the provision of financial services, registration 3739, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u127	Thank you. We can go straight, colleagues. Please, let's get ready for work. 1st Lensky. Don't insist. The 3rd is Blue. Don't insist. 12th is Kugel. He insists. Please, Mrs. Alexander, the 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u128	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, I still want to address the government. Please tell me, what the hell were we doing with the European Basic License Bill? If each body comes out here through its lobbyists and goes back to the adoption of the European Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities and extends that it will personally not only write license terms but also accept them? And then all of my amendments concern that instead of writing down one sentence that the bill is being adopted taking into account the features of the adoption of the Law on Financial Services Markets, the whole bill is being redrafted, there's going to be a corruption component in the part that the Committee on Financial Services is going to write the licensing conditions itself, come up with all the documents itself, figure out how to verify what to order. It's going to be a new corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u129	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u130	This bill believes that it is completely contrary to European practice and must be directed at re-second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u131	Colleagues, Mrs. Kugel's revisions were discussed on the committee. We've taken into account that this bill takes into account a number of features, I say again, of regulating financial services markets. Financial services have their own features. And that's why we thought that these features should be reflected in this bill. And the corrections that Mrs. Kugel offered, we took part in the editorial process, and most of them turned down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u132	Mrs. Alexander, I understand you insist on both the 4th vote and the 12th? Maybe we'll put them up right now. No, it's not. So the first is the fourth, right? 4th is the first one, right, Mrs. Alexander?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u133	Yeah, 4th first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u134	Whoever supports Amendment 4 of People's Deputy Kugel, please vote. Please. [[17:51:49]] For-144 144 – "for. The decision is not made. And the 12th amendment. I'll bet you a vote. Who. Yeah, you are now. Okay, 12 revisions, Kugel, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u135	Dear friends, once again I ask all my colleagues to hear. This is a new monopoly in the Financial Services Committee, where either insurance, or leasing, or other financial institutions, will be created by a separate monopoly on not only the definition of the licensing conditions that we have provided with you by law, but they will also approve these licensing conditions. It's always been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers because it's a college body that's responsible for not having leftovers or very many other documents that conflict with the ideology of transparency and non-corruption. And so I suggested in this bill that I replace all of the words about order, which is just one thing, according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment number 12 of the Kugel People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote who supports Kugel's amendment. [[17:53:34]] For-140. The decision is not made. 13, Lavric. Don't insist. Fourteen, Lavrick. Don't insist. 22nd, Lavrick. Don't insist. 27th, Walking. Don't insist. 28th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 30th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 41st, Kugel. He insists. Guys, we've got a couple of licenses left. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. 41st, insists? Please turn on the Kugel microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u137	And they considered it practically. That's where they edited, 41st counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u138	Yes, you did. 42nd, Levchenko, I'm sorry, Lavrik. Don't insist. 47th, Lavrick. Don't insist. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'd like the secretariat to invite all the deputies to the hall. A vote is about to take place. 48th, Dove. Don't insist. 49th, Kugel. 49th. Don't insist. 50th, Lavrick. Don't insist. So we went through the discussions, the colleagues, all the amendments. What do you say? 49th? I called her 49th and asked if you insisted. By 49th, Mrs. Alexander insists. I'm asking you to turn on her microphone. Last amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I'm calling your attention again. If my amendment is not now supported, you'll have documents to prepare for licensing in such a way as financial services, which are licensed under the Financial Services and Financial Services Act and other laws on the regulation of individual types of financial services markets. It's not just an unscented field. Any bill, any document will be included as an opportunity to increase the requirements of documents and so on. I think there should be a rule that everything that touches licensing goes according to the law with the characteristics of the Financial Services Act. Period. How it works under banking law, how it works under energy law. And I'm sure the Cabinet of Ministers won't agree to disagree with the licensing terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u140	Mr. Michael, comment, this will be your closing statement. We're going straight to the vote. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u141	Thank you, colleagues. First of all, 49 amendments that Mrs. Kugel just made. We believe that the adoption of this amendment completely nullifies the very contents of this bill. That's why we're proposing not to support it. And given the debate on the committee, we want to say that the bill provides for the removal of conflicts between the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities and the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets, as well as other laws on the regulation of individual financial services markets. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of this bill will help to improve the activities of legal persons in this market. And that's why we're proposing to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-01-m1.u142	Thank you. So first I'm going to fix Kugel and then I'm going to make the whole law right away. Please come into the hall, colleagues, and take your seats. First, Kugel 49, which was rejected by the committee, which the committee does not support, but Kugel insists on voting. Who supports Amendment 49 Alexander Kugel, please vote. Please. [[17:57:36]] For a hundred and 150. The decision is not made. And now, colleagues, I put to the vote a law that has been supported by most political forces and factions. We've had previous consultations, and it's only important that people be present for the vote. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready for the vote. Colleagues, and please, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that we are moving on to a decision-making process, colleague. Ready? Can we vote? Please. I am voting on the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the regulation of the characteristics of the licensing of economic activities for the provision of financial services (number 3739) in the second reading and generally, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we are voting in the second reading and in general. Please support, this is the second reading, we've been looking at the second reading. Please. [[17:58:52]] For 178. Colleagues! Colleagues, I bet there's no point in betting, I'll see. I've been informed that this bill is supported by most factions, so let's take a look at the vote. No, colleagues, there's no support for this bill, there's no use even putting it back. And it's very sad that we are. Please. To the others again? Colleagues, can we support the second one again or not? Let me try, colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill, a big job is done. Let me put it to the vote. Who supports the second reading of Law 3739, please support me, please vote on the second reading again. Please vote, please support re-second reading. [[18:00:05]] For-187 There are no votes, colleagues. Draft Law 3739 has been rejected, colleagues. I want to apologize to the head of the committee that we haven't been able to fully review all the bills, and we'll consult when we can move them and consider them. We had a very stressful, serious day, but unfortunately we couldn't get through all the planned bills. However, it was a difficult day, we made important decisions. I thank all the national deputies for their active, active, and responsible work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work, so I'm asking everyone to be there at 10:00 tomorrow to continue their work. We have a "health day" tomorrow, and there will be an important presence of deputies. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye.
