ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Ten o'clock in the morning, starting session. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-08-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-08-m0.u3	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-08-m0.u4	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-08-m0.u5	Colleagues, as in Maidan, there will be no fighting in this room. Provoked to resist, unblocked the rostrum, there will be no fighting. Some want to see the people who are shouldering Midan pass through each other so that they can resist each other. Some want those who have passed the ATO who have come here to change Ukraine to have opposition from one another. That's not gonna happen. My colleagues, I want to tell you, today we were going to consider an hour of questions to the government, a question of tariffs, the government was going to give a detailed account of this. Today, national deputies were to speak from this rostrum in order to express the pain of their electorate, the citizens from whom they were elected. Today, parliamentary requests from deputies were to be read in order to protect the people who had been elected. Today, there was to be a full - time routine of Parliament’s work. Unfortunately, some are not interested in tariffs, interesting destabilization in our country, interesting destabilization in this Parliament. We will not allow it, colleagues, we will not allow it to destabilize the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, today we have representatives of the government in the session room headed by Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine. Hello! [[Applause]] Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for coming to the government for an hour of questions, but I'm afraid it's going to be difficult for us to hold a full session in connection with the situation that took place today in the hall. So, dear colleagues, we will be able to communicate our words to the people, we will be able to report on our government's work, just as we demonstrated yesterday the ability to enact country-wide laws to protect volunteers in order to protect the Ukrainian army in order to create the National Bank Council. Parliament will continue to work equally productively, actively and systematically. And today, unfortunately, because of the inability to hold a session. [[B in m in s a l in]] The MPs are calling for a session. Let's talk about it. Colleagues, pay attention! My colleagues, I'm sorry, I have a bit of a feeling. In the circumstances in which some colleagues put us in, the full - time session will not be possible. Colleagues, and that's why I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We're going to the Conciliation Council, and on Tuesday at 10 o'clock we're going to continue our work. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
