ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. I ask all fellow members of the National Deputies to enter the Hall and prepare for further work, please. Colleagues, once again, I'd like to invite everyone into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Please, we're taking up jobs, we're about to register. Please, colleagues. So, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please sign in and please, please. [[16:07:17]] 360 deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, as we agreed, after lunch, we have the second block of issues agreed upon at the Conciliation Council, which is the question of decentralization. Together, this block of questions has seven bills. And I urge my fellow members of the people to move on to the consideration of this block. Bills of great importance are relevant to local communities. I ask you to mobilize as much as possible, there will be a vote now, a seat in the hall, a job. So the first one in a day’s time is the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. This is Law 4676. And there's a proposal from the committee: so that we can get all the bills to be considered in a simplified way. And I'm asking my fellow deputies to support this proposal, both for the committee and for the authors. Can I count on your support, summary procedure? Colleagues, may we? Wait a minute, yeah, we're waiting. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 4676 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[16:09:46]] For 134 We didn't make it, all the deputies didn't make it. Please, 30 more seconds, please, let's prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please. Heads of factions, please invite MPs. Whoever's in the towers, please come into the hall. Please get ready for work. We have too long of this dissipation, and then we do not have all the bills to accept accordingly. Please, dear colleagues, who are in the towers, who can hear me, I ask once again to enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that there is already a committee decision on the application for relations between Ukraine and Poland. The committee made a decision. The application is now being reproduced and distributed to the National Deputies. As soon as it's given to all the national MPs, as soon as it is, with it will be all the national MPs familiar with it, I'll put on a vote the proposal to include it in the agenda and move on to the consideration. We will wait for all the national deputies to get to know her. And as long as this process goes on, we'll be able to look at decentralization bills. And, colleagues, once again, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready! So once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider Project 4676 under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. [[16:12:22]] For-162 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Mikola Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Today, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Voluntary Uniting of Territorial Communities, an active process is under way with the formation of capable territorial communities. Yes, during the last two years 184 united local communities have been formed, where the first local elections took place. At the same time, questions continue to arise as to the order of formation of united territorial communities in the event of the local communities being united in different areas, namely, the determination of the order of appointment in these territorial communities of the first local elections and the change in the boundaries of such areas. There is also the need to change the boundaries of the area today in the voluntary integration of the territorial community of the city with the territorial communities of other villages, villages, and cities. This does not take into account the fact that the status of a city of regional importance determines only organizational relationships from the point of view of administrative subordination of authorities and budgetary relations, and the territorial city of regional importance is located within the region. Thus, the purpose of the bill is to establish a clear sequence of actions in the process of appointing the first local elections in the territorial communities formed by the unification of the territorial communities of different regions and to change the boundaries of such areas. And foresight of the possibility of the formation of local communities, which are, among other things, territorial communities of cities of regional importance without changing the boundaries of the regions. The bill proposes to amend articles 7 and 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities", complementing them with the relevant provisions, and the Ukrainian Code of Land with the aim of harmonizing the proposed amendments to the Act. Please support the bill as a basis. If there is no serious comment, then the whole thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u3	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Government, Boyko Olena Petrovna. Mrs. Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u4	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, discussed at its meeting on 13 July 2016 a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities (registration 4676), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Olena Boyko, Mikola Fedoruk, Vitali Kurilo. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on voluntary unification of territorial communities and the Ukrainian Land Code to determine the order and conditions of the changes in the area boundaries in the process of voluntary unification of territorial communities. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill has an impact on local budgets, which can lead to a balance between the local district budgets and the budgets of the unified territorial communities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of comments to the bill and believes that the first reading of the bill requires a return to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. In turn, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction, Housing and Utilities of Ukraine and the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, support the draft legislation and believe that its adoption will contribute to the further establishment of unified territorial communities, particularly at the basis of cities of regional importance and adjacent areas. After a comprehensive discussion of the matter, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of territorial communities (No. 4676 of 17.05). 16) introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Boyko, Fedoruk, Kuril, as a result of the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Dear colleagues, I ask you to record the performance: two for, two against. Please, colleagues, please record. Salovi Yuri Igorovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u6	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank the Speaker of Parliament that we have today extremely important bills in part of the decentralization of Ukrainian power. Because I believe that the territorial-administrative reform that this Parliament has begun is or is not the most important, one of the most important reforms that we need to bring to a logical end, because, for this moment, we clearly understand that a number of legislative acts are incomplete and incomplete. And especially the problem that is today. The problem that we are solving with this bill is extremely important, since a number of local communities that are united or ready to unite are, more specifically, a number of villages in different areas. And so far, this problem has essentially been unresolved. This bill provides a legal way to unite in a united territorial community of villages and territorial communities located in various areas. And to this end, I draw the attention of every national MP to the need to adopt this bill. And more than that, I want to say that a number of other bills, and the Oil Spot Act, and the Old Age Act, we are clear. we need to consider and support today, because it's just worse when we start something and we don't lead to a logical end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u7	Thank you. And I'm reminding you that all these bills are in the agenda right now, it's just that there would only be a lot more MPs, so that we can accept them. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko is handing over Odarchenka. Please. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, in 2015, it was widespread, across Ukraine, that we were expected to be decentralized, extended to local communities, given additional resources and additional opportunities. But look at what this so-called decentralization is all about: the transfer of powers has disappeared, the president of this rostrum has told us that not in time, but instead the idea of the expansion of the territorial communities is being actively pursued. It's not that decentralization is unheard of, insolent, all-conceiving centralization. Imagine what happens: 20 to 30 village councils unite into one local community. What kind of decentralization is it when the boards are under pressure from the administration to have their own rural council? What is the extension of authority? This is the insolent, shameful destruction of the rural population. I was in more than 100 rural councils, and believe me, no village wants to see the village disappear. Because they understand that the village council is an organ that allows them to live on, they are self-employed people who have created jobs and survive today as they can. And we, those who propose to adopt these laws, do everything they can to ensure that the village councils are destroyed and the rural population is in more difficult conditions. A village council disappeared, a united community formed at the district level — imagine! – it destroys the sense of local self-government. What is local self - government? This is primarily the community of villages, villages, cities, you propose to unite, to make some form at the district level, and to say that they are united communities. You all realize that after such a merger, all powers will be concentrated in this populated area, most of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u9	Please finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u10	And those villages that lose their village council, they lose their school in a year or two, lose their house of culture, lose their living conditions at all. And the question is, why do you do this? It's not a better life. This is done for the sole purpose of demoralizing the rural population, forcing them to move to district centers, or so - called united communities, and then for the sale of land. We heard from this rostrum that we already had to sell the land. I want to say that Fatherland will never support the sale of the land of salt and so-called "decentralisation" and read directly "centralisation of the united communities." This is annihilation, a genocide of the rural population. And I'm asking everyone to think about it. What you do when you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u11	Thank you. Dobrenkov Alexander Valerijovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It may be necessary to tell each other the truth in this room when making such fateful decisions for Ukrainian citizens, ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Indeed, there is no voluntary association. Legislative provisions are being put in place to drive small territorial communities under the auspices of a major administrative and territorial centre to make it easier to manage. Decentralization is a complex concept. It has been implemented, this reform, and in the constitutional sphere, we know what changes to the Constitution have been proposed by the President, they have had no relation whatsoever to decentralization, because the President has only increased his powers and, in fact, destroyed the remnants of local self-government in Ukraine. The fiscal reform has also been carried out in the tax area. In what form has this reform been carried out? 25 per cent of the per capita income tax was transferred to the State budget. The income tax of individuals is only one of the few real tax bases for the existence of territorial communities. The self-sufficiency of the financial territorial community is a fundamental principle of its existence, enshrined in article 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution. What did they offer instead? Instead, it was proposed that 25 per cent of the NDF should be replaced by a 10 per cent profit tax, a fragmented tax. the sale of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel. It must be said that the administration of these taxes is very difficult. Moreover, a tax which is not interested in coming. In terms of increased income on the ground, local communities cannot influence the tax system, resulting in chronic underfunding. The costs of financing education, secondary education, pre-school education and health care are also included.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u13	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u14	It's a nice trip. What's the point? The interest they receive from allegedly increased tax revenues is transferred to finance the needs of the territorial community, which were previously covered by State subsidies financed by the State budget. Representatives of many territorial communities are now saying that next year they will no longer have enough financial resources. In fact, these costs of education, health care, free food for children of the 1-4 class, for concessional travel, in fact, they will be charged with their own income, such as land tax, a single tax. Therefore, this is not a trend, nor does it increase the development of territorial communities, and it condemns them to survival. Therefore, the position of the Opposition Unit: these bills do not support, do not vote because this decentralization has not justified itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Zubak Lubomir Lvivitch. Turn on the microphone, please. And, colleagues, this is a closing statement, after that it will be. No, there'll be Boyko. After that, vote, please turn on the microphone. It's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, after such fiery speeches, colleagues would like to say a few words in essence. Thus, the bill refers to the united territorial communities that are located within adjacent areas. Today, there are 25 such communities and about half a million people. And so far the election rights of these half a million people are being violated because the Central Election Commission is not banally declaring their first election. The legal question is really controversial: Can a united territorial community be located within a number of areas? But it is no longer the function of the Central Electoral Commission to take over the competence of the Constitutional Court and interpret the law. They must obey the law. Self-help has repeatedly raised the issue of replacing the Central Electoral Commission. At first, the president thought we had two years. After its submission to the Supreme Council, it is not brought to the attention of the deputies for any other reason. It's just, frankly, a shame that three years after the Dignity Revolution, we still have the Central Election Commission of Yanukovich. However, there is no guarantee that even if we vote on this law today, the CEC will announce the elections. I was ashamed to mention this at a meeting of the Central Electoral Commission’s profile committee. So there are two problems. First. Of course, this bill needs to be supported. It theoretically removes obstacles to the announcement of elections and the continuation of the formation of capable territorial communities. But another task that is absolutely necessary is to change the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Otherwise, our vote today may simply remain a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u17	Thank you. From the People's Front. But Olena Boyko picked it up from the Front. So who's going to be the front? Olena Boyko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u18	My fellow Members, in support of this bill, I would like to remind you that a strong state is only possible when a strong community. And you and I, as legislators, have to ensure this principle, the principle of volunteering to unite communities. And this bill will support those communities that have voluntarily united, not within the framework of a promising plan, but in the way that they see themselves capable. This bill is an exercise of the will of the community. We are therefore very much asked to support this bill, and today we have adopted clarifications that go into unison with this bill at the meeting of the Committee on Profile Management. We see the possibility and the need to announce the first elections in voluntarily united communities of adjacent areas. It's for the free citizens, for the free of our communities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u19	Colleagues, we've actually finished the discussion. If there is general support, we move on to decision-making, colleagues. During the discussion, we either heard that he was extremely important and relevant, or that he wouldn't solve everything, but in fact, I didn't hear any objection to the logic and substance of the law that would ensure the voluntary will and will of the community when making decisions. So I ask all the national MPs to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, when you say "signal," it doesn't solve anything. So, what's going to be the signal? It's not gonna solve anything, it's still gonna be a decision or something. That's why it doesn't make sense. And the more it makes sense to invite a fellow MP into the hall, the more it makes sense. And so, colleagues, please come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for the decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities, number 4676 on the basis of colleagues, on the basis only. If you'll excuse me, please vote. Please, 4676 on the ground. Please vote. [[16:31:36]] For 219 We didn't make it. I can see the colleagues didn't make it. I'm asking you to come into the hall, please prepare for the vote and I'll put you back once. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to invite a colleague into the hall. Not enough for five votes or six. I think so. I know I haven't made it, and I can see that they haven't made it, and I'm asking you very much to come up and prepare, take jobs, colleagues. And I'm asking you to back me up. I would like to stress that this is the first reading. Any changes are cautionary, which are, can be made in preparation for the second reading. The question of decentralization is not about politics, but it is about supporting our communities. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. Faction heads, ready? Because I can see that MPs don't stand next to cards. It's good, with a card. Olya's got a card, too, right? Ola, you have a card, right? Yeah, yeah, okay. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration and voting for draft Law 4676. Who supports the proposal. Maxim Burbak. Maxim! Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[16:33:44]] For 207 I'm more interested, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are there any other suggestions, re-reading? I'm more interested in what to do, colleagues. I'm more interested in what to do. It's not an accusation of who's bad, it's an action. I see that the Radical Party voted last time, and this time it didn't vote. Mr. Oleg, perhaps you will say your position, because in fact your position is decisive in this vote. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and deputies, we support, our political power, the Radical Party supports the right of local communities to decentralization, to receive additional financial resources, etc. But when we talk about the rights of local communities, we must first take into account the interests of the people living there. And when we are asked to impose on local communities the boundaries of territories, other conditions, it is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u21	Colleagues, all right. Now we're exchanging thoughts. There's only a few hands from BPP. Which one of you will act? Tell me, who's going to do it? Solovay? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Please, Solovay, one minute. Then it's Goose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u22	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, you, when you just said, you were talking about the bill not this one. This bill speaks very much of another. The bill tells us that there are rural communities in various areas that want to unite, but for that reason even today, decisions have been made. But today they are. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. But today they cannot do this because there is no legislative provision. And, honourable colleagues from other factions who were in the coalition yesterday and today in opposition. I'll just be a second. I want to remind you. Yesterday you supported the process of decentralization, and today you're going out to the rostrum and you're going against it. Impossible. Let's, if we start, let's move forward and finish. This is the necessary law that is expected, at least, of 25 communities in the territory of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, one second. Look, colleagues! We've already worked out the bill. In fact, they did not. We can vote. Mr. Igor, I'll tell the others. We have six more bills of self-government. It's simple if you have the will to accept it. I'll give you my word, all right. But I'll say one more important thing for the speakers. When we have a professional discussion trying somehow to undermine the opponents, we may get a good amount of sleep rather than getting the law. I am more in favour of getting the law, not the good sleep, so that our tendency is to make a decision. The closing word is also spoken by Igor Gus from Front. Let's go to the vote, because. Oleg Beresuk. Okay. And Oleg Beresuk. Because there are voices. Please, Igor Gus, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u24	Dear friends, listen, I'm a senior deputy, I have a community that's joined together and incorporated a village in another district. And she was not allowed to unite! Do you understand? And to this day it stands, and I am asked by the village heads, asking the community, let us include the village of another district. This law on this, which is two areas and you have to give it a chance, because a small village is far away from other centers. So vote, please! Please. For this community in my district, this village of Owadne, to be able to unite! Year, please! I understand where they don't want to go, let them stay together. And they want to, and there's no way. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Same thing, one minute, Beresuk. And let's go to the vote. Please come into the hall, take your seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u26	This is a special report, Mr. Head, for those who fight for the rights of people in the community. If we do not pass this law now, we will violate our rights and deprive people who have united themselves and are awaiting a decision from the State. So we vote and support people who know what a state is, appreciate, love and work for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u27	Thank you. We had some misunderstandings. We made it clear during the discussion and discussion. And I'm going to make an offer to go back to the vote, to the debate. And I'm asking you to support everyone in this group. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting on the draft Law amending number 4676. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Back to the debate. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:39:20]] For 234 We're back. And now, colleagues, after the discussion, I'll put it to a vote. So I put to the vote a draft amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the regions in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities (number 4676) as proposed by the committee on the basis. So who supports this proposal on the basis (4676), please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:40:10]] For 238. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. I want more honest work for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there's a denial in the hall. All I can do is put the simplified procedure into the second reading. So, colleagues who support the simplified procedure when considering the second reading of Bill 4676, please vote, please support. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[16:40:54]] For 215 There's not enough support in the room. And I would like to inform you that I have just been informed by the Apparatus that all the National Deputies already have a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "In connection with the approval of the Senate and the Seima of the Republic of Poland, the rulings of July 7th 16th and July 22nd 16th." Is everyone really on hand, and is everyone really getting to know each other, colleagues? If so, then I will put to the vote a motion to include a ruling in the agenda of the session. Is that understood? Is there any backup? Then, colleagues, I ask the National Deputies from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to support the proposals to include in the agenda the daily session to be considered now the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 5095). Whoever supports such a proposal to move immediately to the consideration of this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote in agreement and in common. Please. [[16:42:18]] For 237 Decision taken. And so I'm starting my consideration of the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (5095) and I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:42:53]] For 202 And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Siroid Oxana Ivanovna. Colleagues, I ask for great attention and attention when considering this decision, this is an important international act. And I'm going to ask Mrs. Oksana to read the entire text carefully again. I want to announce, as I was told, that in fact all the heads of fact factions, most of them, were involved in agreeing on this text, and in the end they made it as a consistent general text. And so I would like to pay great attention to Mrs. Oksana's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u28	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As you know, on July 7, 2016, the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted a decree on respect for the memory of the victims of the genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists against the citizens of the Third Communion in 1943-1945, and appealed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Poland to establish on July 11, a national day for the memory of the victims of the genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists against the inhabitants of the Third word of the Common. In response to this, on 22 July 2016, the Seima of the Republic of Poland adopted a decree on respect for the memory of the victims of the genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists against the citizens of the Third Communion in 1943-1945, and established on 11 July a national day for the memory of the victims of the genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists against the inhabitants of the Third word of Poland. I have to inform you that so many people have tried to prevent this decision. Reported to this process by the Head of the Supreme Council. It was the Ukrainian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland, in fact, in full stock. These were representatives of the friendship group of Parliamentary Ukraine and Poland and personally Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. It was the Embassy of Ukraine in the Republic of Poland. It was public. Personally, the president of Ukraine reported on preventing this decision. Sadly, though, we failed to convince our Polish colleagues. The Ukrainian Parliament considers it necessary to assess the decision taken by the Polish Seima and the Senate. Personally, I consider such a decision to be shortsighted and harmful for Poland, which will remain a strategic partner for Ukraine. But now I want to present to you a joint decision that has been made by members of different factions, in fact, all those who have made efforts to prevent a decision taken by the Polish Senate and the Polish Seim. In view of the editorial changes introduced in the committee, I will now, in your view, read out the entire text of the ruling, the more faithful text of the application to be approved, and so that you will get to know it. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine In connection with the approval of the Senate and the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, which decided on 7 July 2016 and 22 July 2016 on the assessment of the Ukrainian-Polish conflict during World War II, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided with regret and disappointment, and took a deep concern over the Senate's decision and the subsequent approval by the Parliament of the Republic of Poland of the Order of 22 July 2016 on honouring the memory of the victims of the genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists against citizens of the 1st word of the General Assembly in 1943-1945, which was given a politically and legally incorrect assessment of the tragic page of Ukrainian-Polish history concerning, inter alia, the conflict between our peoples during the Second World War. The Supreme Council of Ukraine points out that Ukraine and Poland combine both outstanding examples of a common struggle for freedom and bloody opposition. The Ukrainian Parliament states that due respect and equal concern should be given to the memory of all victims in the territory of both States. The Supreme Council of Ukraine emphasises that over the past decades, Ukraine and the Republic of Poland have done much for mutual forgiveness and reconciliation and respect for the memory of innocently murdered Ukrainians and Poles during the conflicts of the 1940s, and have already given a joint assessment of these historical events in the documents agreed upon by both sides. In particular, a statement by the Presidents of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on the understanding and connection of the 21st of May 1997; a statement by the parliaments of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Wallin tragedy of 10 July 2003; a joint statement by the Presidents of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on the reconciliation of the 60th anniversary of the tragic events in Volina of 11 July 2003; a joint statement by the President of Ukraine and the President of the Republic of Poland on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Visla campaign; a joint declaration by the President of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on 27 April 2007; a joint declaration by the President of the Russian Catholic Republic on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Visla campaign. between the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church and the Roman Catholic Church of Poland on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the crime in Volina on 28 June 2013; the Declaration of the Presidents of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on the 25th anniversary of Ukraine's independence on 24 August 2016. In this connection, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the establishment of the National Day of National Remembrance of the Victims of Genocide by Ukrainian Nationalists against the Citizens of the Third Communion in 1943-45 as a manifestation of the politicization of the tragic pages of Ukrainian-Polish history. The Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses that the adoption of the regulations of the Senate and the Seima of the Republic of Poland was accompanied by an anti - Ukrainian action to destroy Ukrainian monuments in Poland, attacks on participants in religious celebrations, banning cultural action, and chauvinistic rhetoric. The Supreme Council of Ukraine draws the attention of Polish deputies, the entire Polish government and society to the fact that anti-Ukrainian actions and the inflammation of anti-Ukrainian sentiments unfold at the moment of the greatest vulnerability of the Ukrainian state in the state of war with the Russian Federation. In this war, an aggressor uses historical issues, particularly those of the 1940s as an element of war against our state. The Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the approval by the Parliament of the Republic of Poland of the said decrees has jeopardized the political and diplomatic work and efforts of the two nations and nations aimed at mutual forgiveness, reconciliation and respect for the memory of innocent victims — Ukrainians and Poles. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, then, condemns the unilateral actions of the Senate and the Parliament of the Republic of Poland aimed at reviewing the positive results of cooperation achieved during the constructive Ukrainian-Polish dialogue in recent decades. The Ukrainian Parliament believes that unilateral political assessments of historical events pose a high risk of causing conflicts between our societies and nations and contribute to further radicalization of both Ukrainian and Polish societies, which weakens the consolidation of our citizens' efforts towards the development of Ukraine and Poland. The Supreme Council of Ukraine states that the only way to reconcile and unite the Ukrainian and Polish peoples lies through a shared knowledge of the facts and conditions of history, personal responsibility for crimes against humanity, war crimes, and Christian forgiveness. The Supreme Council of Ukraine states that the success of future Ukrainian-Polish relations lies in the plane of the agreed understanding formula between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine urges historians to continue their professional dialogue with a view to uncovering all the facts and circumstances of history that have not yet been established on the basis of reliable archival materials, leaving room for each side to interpret historical facts and for the politicians of Ukraine and Poland to stop instrumentalizing historical science in order to achieve temporary political benefits. Today and future generations of Ukrainians and Poles are urged to continue their strategic partnership and to resist the attempts of individual political forces to manipulate the sensitive pages of the historical past in spite of the interests of the Ukrainian and Polish peoples. It calls on Polish colleagues to stop the politicization of the tragic pages of history, Ukrainian-Polish history and focus on building a constructive relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland to strengthen partnership in democratic Europe on the basis of European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u29	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u30	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Mr. Head! As soon as Parliament's vice-speaker read out the text of a statement, which is also given out, anyone can get to know it. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs today considered a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the approval of the Senate and the Seima of the Republic of Poland on July 7, 2016 and July 22, 2016, concerning the Volin tragedy. We propose that this decision be adopted on the basis and as a whole, and that we also adopt a statement with the following changes and additions to the title of the Decision and the statement of the word "the Volin tragedy" be replaced by the words "the assessment of the Polish-Ukrainian conflict in the years of World War II." The other one. In the draft statement in paragraph one, the words "as far as the events on the Wall" are concerned should be replaced by the words "in particular the conflict between our peoples during the Second World War." And in paragraphs 15 and 17, the word "parliament" should be replaced by the word "supervisory council" and in paragraph 21 the word "enter" should be replaced by the word "continue." I would like to thank all those who have joined in finalizing the text of this statement, including the representatives of the National Institute of Memory. And also to say that these days, in Krinica, the Polish city, there is an Economic Forum, where, in particular, our delegation is present, our national assembly from the government, from the parliament, where we are backing up, deepening our partnership with Poland as our strategic ally. And we're talking about the fact that Poland and I have been united for over a thousand years in the neighborhood, fighting for our statehood, and they have their statehood. And we have to remember what Stalin once called Poland "historic misunderstanding". It's the same thing that Putin now calls Ukraine "art education." And we wouldn't want Poles to have a selective approach to history, because that's exactly the selective approach to history that benefits our enemies. And that's why we call on this decision not to judge historical events, let historians do it, turn the page, but focus on strategic events.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u31	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u32	And focus on strategic partnership and increase cooperation in the military industry. In particular, at the summit, the Forum in Krinica Poland presented its external political vectors. This is the expansion of cooperation within a regional initiative such as the Balto Black Sea Union, the expansion of the Visegrad Four. This is where we can be powerful partners, especially in the Carpathian region. So I would like to thank all the members of the group of friendships that strengthen ties with Poland in decentralization in small and medium-sized business development.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I record this discussion, I simply have a big request to my fellow MPs: to hold this discussion as emotionally as possible. Poland was, is, and will be our great partner. Together with the Poles, we won many battles against the Russian aggressor, and in fact, the Russian aggressor, like the Nazi, led to tragedy on our lands. On Maidan we remember the presence of our Polish friends. We're working with them to build regional policies in the Balto Black Sea Union. Colleagues, I call for a decent patriotic discussion, but a discussion that does not go into the emotional sphere. Or is it true, they say, that we should vote? No, there is a denial. Colleagues, please record: two for, two for against, please. Record two for two, two against. Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please. Passes the word to Mr. Tarasyuk. To the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u34	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Ukrainian people, respected colleagues! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine owes a debt to the Ukrainian people because what took place on 7 and 22 July of this year in the Senate and in the Seima of the Republic of Poland, otherwise than an attempt to humiliate the Ukrainian nation, the dignity of the Ukrainians cannot be called. So I call upon all deputies, regardless of party affiliation and factional affiliation, to support this project. I want to say that we, members of the parliamentary group in connection with the Republic of Poland, have actually been dealing with these issues since March of this year. Few of you know how much effort has been made to prevent anti-Ukrainian decisions in the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, all our attempts to reach out to our colleagues in the Polish Parliament have failed. We offered them a joint resolution. We offered to give them a joint assessment of the events in Volina. Sadly, this did not come back. I believe that those efforts made by both me and my colleagues in the MP group in connection with the Republic of Poland are worth the gratitude of both the Supreme Council and the entire Ukrainian people. And I want to say that unfortunately, despite all the efforts and appeals to our colleagues from the Polish Parliament to take a constructive course, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u35	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u36	In response to this protest against this anti - Ukrainian action taken by the Senate and the Seimas of the Republic of Poland, and in view of the fact that the Supreme Council was no longer in session meetings, I decided to place the mandate of the deputy group in connection with Poland in protest against this anti - Ukrainian production of Polish senators. Dear others, I want to say that the Ukrainian public doesn't care about these decisions. In particular, on September 25, civil and political officials issued a statement condemning the decision. So our debt, the debt of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is to support this project. And I hope that everyone, regardless of their faction, will make such a positive decision. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u37	Thank you. The word is Teteruku Andriy Anatoliovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u38	I ask you to pass the word to Elena Victor Eugenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! The resolution of the Polish Parliament brings us real deep disappointment, regret and concern. But we do well to remember the survival of the Ukrainian people and the survival of the Polish people in this war. Both the Polish and Ukrainian nations were the most affected during World War II. The war has passed through our countries to the west and east, and to the east, and to the west, we must remember that too. We need to remember how many people have not returned from the fronts, how many have been killed by the invaders, and how many have been made invaders to implore our peoples. There are very few families who have not suffered during the years of World War II, both in Poland and in Ukraine. Therefore, every attempt to make political gehefts in this tragedy is clearly condemned. But at the same time, we also condemn attempts to challenge our peoples, to make allies of what we were, and to be, enemies of opponents and opponents. We have to say no to everything. We must condemn those regions that have been gathering signatures in this room to the Polish government and to the Polish Parliament, demanding that the Volin tragedy be recognized as genocide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u40	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u41	We have to scroll this page. And to turn it around as he taught the blessed memory of Pope John-Paul II, we forgive and ask forgiveness. We remain allies and pass it on to future generations. We propose and call for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u42	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna gives the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u43	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen, fellows! About us today: The people and the nation, the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian nation today are in a direct factual sense holding the front, the bastion by army, blood, dead and wounded, the third world war bastion. The wars of the eastern despot against Western democracy. It holds itself when Western Europe and the world lose the battalion behind the battalion. Brexit, Trump, the migration crisis in Europe is all the battalions of World War III. It's about Poles. This nation and this nation have emerged from the communist non-existence of the last 20 years as one of the strongest nations, nations and economies in the world today. And it's very strange that with such a nation, such a nation, such an economy, which today has become the cornerstone of European security and economic success, some political leaders and politicians of this nation have resorted to Soviet methods for the development of history and the construction of the future. Now for a brief discussion of the past. Timothy Snyder. Read this American historian. "The Earth of Blood." 18th, 19th, 22nd, 33rd, 37th, 39th, 41st, 46th and other years, millions, tens of millions of Ukrainians, covered with blood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u44	Keep going for a minute. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u45	The Eastern Despotia killed everyone, sometimes killing the minds of people who were killed because they were disunited by the wicked Communist regime. And we'll be back by today. What should we do? We have the only enemy with Poles, the only enemy with the Baltic nations and the Central European and European nations. This enemy is Russia’s eastern despot. And that's why the cornerstone of European security today is in Poland, in the Baltic Sea, in all Eastern Central European countries. And today, there's the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian people on the forestone. And without these peoples, Europe will lose its identity and European values, once again at risk of an eastern despot. Therefore, the call to these nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u46	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u47	We stand together, learning from the blood of our grandparents. I am the grandson of those who have suffered from two. I'm sure they'd say today that for this nation's sake you have to stand by and fight against the world's greatest enemy of democracy, the eastern despot of the Russian Empire.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u48	Thank you. From the Radical Party, I invite you to the words of Oleg Laska. And I want to emphasize, there's been a technical error: there's a wolf among the authors, a national MP from the Radical Party. I ask the Apparatus to correct this error so that it can be identified among the authors of this decision, and to adjust it in technical order. Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The message of the Senate's and the Polish Seima's decision, which gives a distorted, politically and legally incorrect assessment of the tragic assessment of Polish-Ukrainian history, has deeply wounded us in the heart. I would like to remind our neighbours, our partners and Polish allies of the word of the great Polish intellectual Jerzygędróc, who wrote, "Without an independent Ukraine, there can be no independent Poland." And I hope that today’s Polish authorities will always remember those words. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Ukrainian-Polish relations have more than just tragic pages. In the case of World War II, it was precisely as a result of the plot of Moscow imperialism with German imperialism that the Ukrainians suffered the most, the Poles, that we gave more than 10 million lives to free our home land from the brown plague. I would like to remind you, by the way, that it is today that 502 years have been completed since the famous, one of the greatest battles of that time -- the Battle of Orshey, where the united army under the leadership of the Grand Prince Constantine Ostrozhkow -- was fought by Ukrainians, Poles, Lithuanians -- this united Russian army broke the Moscow horde of Moscow's King Vasil III. [[Applause]] By the way, Basil III then entered the then Lithuanian Principality without a declaration of war. Thus today, Moscow’s Putin continues the policies of Moscow’s King Vasil III. And you and I must continue to pursue the policies of the Great Prince Constantine Ostrozhky by uniting our efforts together against the Moscow invasion and defeating this horde.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion, but for one minute I promised Andrew Illenka. Let's move on to the decision-making process and ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. One minute, Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u51	Andrew Illenko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to highlight first of all one important amendment that I would like to make in the first paragraph at the end when it comes to giving an incorrect assessment of the tragic page of Ukrainian-Polish history to add not only "politically and legally" but also "historically incorrect" is very important. But most importantly, what I wanted to say is that this statement Polish politicians made worse not even Ukraine, they unfortunately did worse to themselves. Because she was so shortsighted, first of all she always played in history against their country. We must honor our national memory, we must look to the future, we must understand who today is the main and enemy who is destroying Ukraine today, and obviously is planning to destroy Poland and we must develop the Baltic Sea Union, but we must not do it by standing on our knees. We have to stand on our feet, not stand on our knees in one-sided order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! During the discussion, we actually saw a complete unification of the hall. I want to tell you that, after this statement, I took the initiative to adopt, by the beginning of World War II on September 17th, a statement by the five parliaments of three: Balthia, Poland and Ukraine, calling who was responsible for this tragedy, the imperialism of Moscow and Nazi imperialism that led to the tragedy on our lands. We have to give a common assessment and go back to tradition to give a common, not a unilateral, assessment of our events. I'm sure we'll settle all the opposition between us, I'm sure we'll shoulder to shoulder with our Polish brothers in opposition to Moscow imperialism. And now, colleagues, I invite you to support this decision as a whole. Mr. Andrew, she's shaken up every word for too long, it's not that basic, I think. Let's do it in the same way that we agreed to vote, and that's the right thing to do, Mr. Andrey. Mr. Andrey, now we're going to have a big discussion. That's one word. I ask you to support the statement agreed upon by all factions as a whole. So I am voting on the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approval of the Senate and the Seima of the Republic of Poland of the Regulations of 7 July 2016 and 22 July 2016 on the Polish-Ukrainian War (5095) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The conflict, after all, is, the protocol correctly spelled "conflict," "polski-Ukrainian conflict." This is the amendment that the committee gave. Yes, as drafted by the Committee on the Polish-Ukrainian Conflict of the Year of World War II. It's in the committee's office, as indicated here. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, let's show the unification of the entire hall. Vote, fellows! Please. [[17:12:57]] For 247 Decision taken, decision taken. Thank you for your unanimity, for your firm stand on the matter. One more minute for the lineup, please. Boris Ivanovich. One minute for the lineup, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u53	For the stenographer. In her speech, the text and the name of Oxana Ivanovna were correct. This is about "the assessment of the Polish-Ukrainian conflict in the years of World War II." Not "the conflict," but "the assessment of the Polish-Ukrainian conflict."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u54	Thank you very much. I pointed out for the transcript: in the committee. So the committee's editor is correct, the correct definition, and I've pointed out in the committee's editorial that it's been verified and correct. Dear colleagues, thank you for your unity. Now we're moving on and on with the question of decentralization. The next issue that we have in our day after decentralization is the draft Law 4742 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation (as regards the status of village old age, village). There is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. So the shorter procedure is 4742. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:14:35]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymirovich. I'm sorry I didn't give you my word before, but now you have the ability to express your position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u55	The Honorary Society, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, The Act on the Voluntary Unification of Territorial Communities provides for the establishment of the Institute of Village Ageing, Villages as a necessary element of the process of decentralization. To date, 184 united territorial communities have been established in Ukraine, 43 percent of the territorial communities have decided to hold elections or have already been elected rural seniority. At the same time, the first experience of the establishment of the institution of old age has revealed a number of gaps, a coalition in the current legislation of Ukraine, which has a negative impact on the spread of decentralization, the formation of capable territorial communities. In particular, problems arise in practice regarding the selection of old age, the territorial aspects of its activities, the circle of authority, and the guarantee of its activities. The question of the responsibility of old age, its accountability, and its subordination is on the agenda. The bill provides for amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts that provide for the consolidation of the principle that the office of old age has the right in all villages and villages of a united territorial community. To that end. In order to define the spatial boundaries of old age activities, it is proposed to introduce the concept of "oldist county" into the current Ukrainian legislation, which coincides with the boundaries of the territorial jurisdiction of the councils of those communities that have united. Consolidating the powers of old age in the following basic areas: representation and protection of rights, legitimate interests of villagers, villages; promotion of the authority of local self - government bodies of the united territorial community, their officials, deputies of local councils; monitoring of the status of use. the implementation of local self-government decisions in the territory of the mayoral district; the determination of the periodicity of the seniority report on its work; the dissemination of guarantees to the mayor of the local council's deputies, provided for by the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils; the establishment of grounds and order for the early cessation of seniority; the extension to the old age of the anti-corruption law; the settlement of issues of old age as an official of local self-government. The implementation of the bill will speed up the process of formation of capable communities, increase the effectiveness of their organs in relation to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u56	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u57	The adoption of the bill will allow the issues of old age to be settled. I would like to stress that the bill is accepted as a basis. There are many questions, many points. The committee held a hearing, a round table, at which the elected elders from all over Ukraine were invited. A working group will be created and all comments and suggestions will actually be worked out. "Better than barking darkness, lighting a candle!" Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u58	Thank you, dear fellows. And the co-report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government of Mikola Fedoruk. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u59	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on 13 July 2016 the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Status of Village Age, Village (Registration No. 4742), introduced by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine: "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine", "On Local Elections", "On Prevention of Corruption", "On Service in Local Self-Government Authorities"; and to determine the right status of old age, the order of election and the permanent termination of powers. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concludes with a number of comments to the bill and believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable for the subject to return the right of legislative initiative to work. The All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities of the Association of Cities of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill and believes that it aims to remove a number of gaps and colossalities in existing legislation. The Ministry of Regional Development of Ukrainian Housing and Housing notes that the bill is one of the priority legislative initiatives aimed at developing local self-government and improving territorial governance. Having discussed the issue comprehensively, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (as regards the status of the village's old age) (registration number 4742) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. And please, according to the Rules, I ask the factions to sign up to discuss this bill with two for, two against. I also ask the deputies to approach the session room, because in eight minutes we will be voting on this bill. And now, please, Mr. Jurick will take the floor. This is a representative of the Peter Prashenko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u61	Please pass the word of Revego to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Mr. Reveza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I ask your attention. The law is necessary, a bill, but there is paragraph 5, which states, "Oldness may be a member of the executive committee of the council." I would like to suggest that old age should be a member of the executive committee of the Council, since today the role of old age is extremely great in the formation of united communities, these are today’s rural heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u64	Thank you. Please turn on Mr. Chizmar's microphone from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u65	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Yuri Chižmar. The law is absolutely necessary, and we know that decentralization is expected by the whole country and the appropriate authority in place, and likewise, since more than 60 united communities in Ukraine are now being created, they expect that the elderly who are to manage villages that have entered the united community should acquire their authority, their status, and have the opportunity to represent these territorial, villages, villages in a united territorial community. So our party will support and the faction will support this bill, please join all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chizmaru. Please, the "Fatherland, Mr. Yvchenko" faction. He gives the word to Mr. Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the question of decentralization under the chapter of this bill has nothing to do with uniting communities. Today, centralization is taking place, as was the case in the 1970s with the Soviet government, when incapacitated farms were merged into one village. And whoever's older here remembers and knows that those villages where the village council disappeared are totally degraded, they're actually disappearing from the map, from the map of Ukraine. We're trying now. Those MPs who are the ideologists of these changes, they're trying to replace the popularly elected head of agriculture with a notion like a mayor who, in fact, has no influence. Even in the body of this bill, its very limited influences can be a member of the execution. It's essentially a figure that's not going to decide anything and that's going to replace local self-government. See what happens. When there are so-called united communities that include 20-30 rural councils in their bodies, most deputies will be concentrated in this settlement, which is the center of the united community. And it's always this majority of deputies, it's going to work for this, this center of the united community. It's very human. And neither are the communities that are defined as unable to do so, and they're going to lose their impact on the budget, and they're going to be doomed to degradation. I urge everyone not to support this bill because it is based on the destruction of rural councils, the destruction of local self-government and the destruction of villages in Ukraine. This leads, in fact, to the destruction of our nation. I ask all the deputies who are taking such initiatives to visit and ask these rural ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u68	Mrs. Boyko, please, from the People's Front. Turn on the microphone, because the faction was unable to speak, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill reverses the gaps that were before this, the powers, opportunities and rights of old age. And I remind those major MPs who don't know that the mayor today, in accordance with the Law on Voluntary Unity, is elected by election, it's an election position and it's a representative of the community. And if the head of a voluntary union has one authority, the mayor represents the very locality, that is, the village that chose him. Thus, the bill once again supports voluntary community unification. For the community, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u70	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to come into the session room. Let's demonstrate the results of the vote as we did today during the day. Mr. Mishchenko is picking up more from. Peter Dustenka's Block was on. Let's put it to a vote and then we'll watch what we do next. Okay? Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u71	I'd like a colleague of the people's deputies to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a decision-making process. Colleagues, I will now be the basis for the vote. I see that there are warnings in some factions and MPs. I emphasize, it's just a base, it's just a base. I think there's a point to supporting. And these corrections that are, we can adjust to the second reading, colleagues. Can we count on that? We can. So I'm just laying the groundwork. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the status of the village's old age, village) (number 4742) as a basis, colleagues, as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, Self-Help, I ask you to support me in voting. I ask you to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the ground. Please. [[17:26:57]] For 208 We didn't vote, Motherland didn't vote. Is it possible to adjust your position? There's an offer that can be adjusted. Please, Ivan Krulko. And then Sergei Mishchenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. On the first reading of this bill, I propose that we vote with an amendment to the fact that the mayor is a member of a united community. And in this editorial, the "Paternity" faction can change and give the necessary votes. Because the mayor must be a member of the executive to influence the decision-making process in a united community, not "may be".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u73	I see this proposal being accepted. Now, Sergey Mishchenko, a minute. And Dekhtarczuk, one minute. And then we vote. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u74	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Clearly, the basic thesis is that the one who wants to unite should unite. He who does not want to be united will never be united. That position, which relative to the obligation of old age to be a member of the executive body, should be maintained. And what's the main thing about peasants right now is what authority will the mayor have? Will they be reduced with the authority of the village council? What do I mean? Do you know who the secretary of the village council is? What documents does she give to the villagers? Order, help, commission, and so forth. Will the mayor have it? No, it won't! Because if we don't accept it, if we don't change it to the second reading of the mandate of old age. And we send people to the villages next door to collect these clues, so you're not going to get cursed with this decadentization, they're going to tell you to get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u75	And a closing statement by the author, the national deputy Dekhtyarchuk Alexander. One minute, turn on the microphone. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u76	Dear Society, thank you for the comments that have been made. These questions were, indeed, discussed during the drafting of the bill. It was noted that the elder was to be a member of the execution. I personally do not see any objection to upholding such a position. There were opposers among the old age, where the united community was large, for example, the district became a united community, and then it became ineffective. But actually, I'm willing to support that proposal. I urge everyone to submit their suggestions, their opinions on the authority, and to continue this discussion with specific suggestions for second reading. Thank you. I'd like to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u77	Thank you. Logically, the amendments are made between the first and the second readings. But if there's such a requirement of a whole faction, there's already been a performance, then I think there's a point that we should put this amendment into the first reading field. And now I'm going to put the vote on the basis of the proposal that Ivan Krulko made under the transcripts. But before that, we'll have to go back. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs, get ready for the vote. I call for the responsibility of the People's Deputy Musak, the People's Deputy Sotnik. From the high court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I appeal to the deputies who are snorkeling in the corner of the Supreme Council to return to their jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to make an offer to go back, and then, I'm going to make your proposal, and I think it's going to take most of it into the hall. We found a consolidated joint decision, now the main thing to do is to have a disciplinary vote. So whoever supports the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law (as regards the status of village old age, village) (4742) please vote. Colleagues, please vote in favour, please. [[17:31:38]] For 229 We're back. And now I'm going to put an amendment, and I'm going to ask you carefully, under the transcript, I'm going to put to the vote the bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the status of the village's seniority, the village) (number 4742) with the amendment that was made under the transcript by John Krulko, on the basis. Colleagues, based on. Please vote, please support base 4742. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Vote, colleagues. [[17:32:25]] For 238. Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors, welcome to the committee with fruitful and quality work. We move on to the next issue of the agenda from the decentralization bloc as well – this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the counting of salaries for administrative services to the budgets of the United Territorial Communities (4386), (4386-1), (4386-d). And there's a proposal to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure, please vote, colleagues. [[17:33:18]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite up to three co-reporters here, and I have one request that we go as dynamic as possible. Colleagues, I'll tell you the logic of our work. We still have three laws under the section "local self-government," and then we have a bill on financial security for the reform of the fisheries sector in Ukraine that needs our immediate solution. And they were addressing us, and the profile minister and the committee's profile head. I ask for a dynamic and active job, and I invite you to join us in the audience, and I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melnik Sergio Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u78	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the counting of salaries for the provision of administrative services to the budgets of the united territorial communities. What was the problem today? The problem is that the Treasury is blocking the payment of administrative fees to the budgets of the united territorial communities. Therefore, this bill regulates the inclusion in the general fund of the budgets of the unified territorial communities of the administrative assembly from registration, the state registration of property rights, restrictions, burdens, and the state registration of subjects of entrepreneurial activity of natural, legal, and other paid services associated with State registration. Taking into account that separate additions have been made by the Committee on Budgets when considering this law, my request to support the draft Law on amending the Code of Budgets as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u79	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jurik Taras Zinovyovich, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by draft Ukrainian Act No. 4386-1, amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. In fact, changes are very important, although they are quite simple. When we passed the Law on Administrative Services, it's formation. the provision of administrative services and the budgeting of these administrative services in the unified territorial communities. To this day, united territorial communities have been able to form virtually everywhere. Administrative services centres. And, more than that, a number of European funds are operating today that actively support the establishment of administrative services centers in united communities. And that's why the formation and counting of these funds into the budgets of these councils are extremely important. In the process of drafting this bill, there is a proposal to support ultimately on the basis and in general. On the basis and overall, Bill 4386-d, which was worked by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u82	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, you have now heard proposals from two co-authors that are no longer alternatives. Given that the legislative initiative is supported by both Minfin and the Association of Cities, there is also a need to further address the issue of accounting for the administrative assembly for the state registration of legal persons, natural persons and social formations into the budgets of cities of regional importance, rural and rural budgets. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the consideration of Bills 4386 and 4386-1, to adopt, as a whole, as a law elaborated by the Committee, Bill 4386-d. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u83	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u84	Please, Mr. Dubil has a word from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u85	Please give it to Ichchenka. Please hand over Ivchenka Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u86	Please, Vadim Yvchenko from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u87	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable colleagues certainly need to adopt this bill as a whole. But I want to remind you that today the government is reporting that this year's budget has risen by 20 percent of the territorial communities again. But let's look again. Unless you and I have raised 20 percent of the basic tax -- PDF from 15 percent to 18 percent. And unless we're with you, more specifically, you've raised the only tax twice and it's become a basic tax for villages. Didn't you and I raise the rate and raise the land tax? And this is what you call fiscal decentralization? Was it not before the elections or in the districts that you were talking about establishing a tax on the income of the individual at the place of residence of the individual? Didn't we tell you that 50 percent of the rent for wood or wood cut should be included in local self-government budgets? Didn't we talk to you about 50 percent of the local government's budget for water use? Didn't we tell you that part of the rent for useful fossils is to be counted as local self-government? And these are the mines, and these are the forests of the Carpenter, and these are rivers, and these are rivers that can fill local budgets today. Dear colleagues, didn't we talk to you and start a discussion about what we need to save cities of district importance? The second year in a row, they eat their budgets, simply eat, and there is no increase. I want you and I to be really and highly qualified, because here we are with you one law only, and the other laws prepared by the Fatherland together with our fellow deputies are in the leadership of the Supreme Council for a year and a half. Bills 2068, 2069, 2070, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u88	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u89	3754, which solves these very questions that I said. And also with our colleagues, with Derevyanka (4208), it's about financing the budgets of villages and villages. The village and the village. A bill with colleague Rybak (4755) on 50 percent of water use. This is fiscal decentralization. And this is what you do: it is a systemless work and translation of all responsibilities on the shoulders of employers and people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u90	Thank you. Please, Barney Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Decentralisation was a requirement of society and Maidan. Take the authority of the executive branch and pass it on to the local communities. I guess I don't understand why some colleagues are so opposed to this right now, according to the principle of "Baby Yaga always opposes." In addition, we need to pay attention, first of all to the proper training of local community leaders, because their management activities and facilities have expanded considerably, and the authority, the territory, has increased. And here we have to pay particular attention to who we choose. But the United Communities received more than half a billion dollars in the Ternopil region to develop the infrastructure of their communities. In line with changes in tax legislation, local communities themselves have been regenerating their incomes by more than 60 percent. And this is a significant victory for local budgets. Therefore, the purpose of the local congregation’s administration to local communities will be one of the principles of decentralization. Therefore, this bill needs to be voted on and allowed to develop fully in the local communities, namely, part of the budget. In addition, I would like to pay attention to the head of the sitting to transfer the above-order bill of the day, which. The number five is 4464 in terms of water management, because it is essential, and it is put off the day after tomorrow. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you a line on your performance. We do have an urgent bill today on reforming the fisheries sector of Ukraine, which does not allow us to finance the sector. In fact, a matter that does not need to be discussed needs to be resolved, for it is agreed upon together. We also have four decrees to change the boundaries of the administrative territorial system in Lugansk and Donetsk, as well as technical matters. And we have some laws on decentralization. I have a general request for deputies to work more dynamically. And if there's room will, I'll move them up the fishing field. If there's room will, I'll put this motion to a vote. And now I invite you to the words of Gusak Volodymyr Georgiyovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u93	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We will strongly support the idea of real decentralization of power in Ukraine. We believe that in the end, only the issues of defence, national security, Ukraine's external relations and national infrastructure must remain in central power; all the rest, in particular, of education, of civil order, of local medicine and of infrastructure, must be passed on to local communities. And local communities should be given financial opportunities to carry out these powers. And at least 70 percent of the total income tax in Ukraine should remain in place. And this is what the Ukrainian Constitution project, which was developed by the Opposition Block. As far as decentralization is concerned today. Unfortunately, it has very little to do with decentralization. And, in particular, there's a lot of talk about the need to make changes to different laws in order to get the Law on the Voluntary Union of Communities to work. Ladies and gentlemen! The first change we have to make is to tell the truth and remove the word "voluntary" from the title of the Law on the Voluntary Union of Communities. Because in the Donetsk region, for example, there are dozens of cases where the communities that people have formed don't agree, and the communities that the authorities have foreseen are not supported by people. And the situation is similar in many areas of Ukraine, such as Hersonska, Sumska, and others. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u95	But since we are determined for real decentralization, and this law is taking any steps towards real decentralization, giving local communities the opportunity to receive administrative assemblies for state registration, the opposition bloc faction will support Bill 4386-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u96	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. And I'm asking you not to continue this discussion, because we're not going to be able to make it around the clock. The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. Then we go to the vote. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u97	Please give my word to my colleague, Mr. Amelchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! This bill, of course, is a faction of Oleg Láška's Radical Party, like any other law that relates to decentralization, will continue consistently. It is important today for those territorial communities that have united, but unfortunately, these administrative services are now in the district budget. To eliminate this inadequacy, the committee and Minfin, and the Associations of Rural Cities, the village councils, supported this initiative. So I ask all the MPs to support this bill, because it is very important for the new creations to be independent and self-sufficient, our united territorial communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. So, colleagues, the committee concluded to support the overall 4386-d. But I'm just going to lay the groundwork. Should I Place It In general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that a general position? That's a general position. Then please come in, we'll take our seats. I'll put the committee's proposal to a vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the counting of administrative fees to the budgets of the unified territorial communities (No. 4386-d) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:49:35]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, pay attention. Attention! May I have your attention, please? We have plenty of people in the hall. We have two ways: now 4772 and 4773, we've already had a discussion. Let's figure out the level of readiness by rating vote: if we're ready to move on, and if we're not ready, let's move on to the question that Peter Dustenk called for, 4464. So I'm voting on the level of support for the 4772 and 4773 Bills that have already been discussed. The rating vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, there won't be any money. Whoever supports these bills, please show this in the 4772 vote. Please vote, please vote. [[17:50:48]] For 199 Colleagues, please, during the session, not to talk to each other, but to listen to what I'm saying. I put it to a rating vote because I was asked by the committee's chairman to transpose these bills because there is no unity in them. We've just clarified the level of unity in these bills. And I now, at the request of the author of the Fedorok Mikoli Trochymovich Bills, pass these bills. Did I make the right call? This is the author's right and the author has made such a request to me as the presiding officer, and I bear them. And so I'm able to move on to draft Law 4464, which stands after that -- the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix 3, to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 -- and I urge you to support the proposal to review it in a simplified manner. Please, colleagues who support me, please vote. Short-term procedure. [[17:52:11]] For-183 183 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musak Alexi Petrovich. Say the word of truth, Mr. Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! I want to start with a report from the classic: the Supreme Council, the rostrum, the National Deputy refers to colleagues as follows: there are no fish in rivers. In fact, the situation is simple, we have Dnipro, we have a lot of water resources where there should be a lot of fish, but there's a problem -- poachers who literally line the nets with everything that's possible. This resulted in the creation and recruitment of a new fishing patrol of 2,000 people who had acquired 45 new workers, promised them an increased salary, and promised them new equipment to deal effectively with it. The bill is technical, agreed with the Ministry, the APC, and does not require additional budget costs. In the framework of the APC programmes, move on. There is a redistribution of the amount from one program to another program. This will enable effective fishing patrols to increase and bring Aboriginal fish species back to Ukraine and restore the population of any other fish species in Ukraine. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u101	The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u102	Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkaščina. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Budget Committee at its meeting on May 11th supported the bill. As already noted by the rapporteur, the bill has been drafted with the aim of improving the material and technical base and providing the territorial authorities of the State with the necessary means to carry out their activities, in fact, the specialties for protection. In order to implement this project, it is proposed that 15 million dollars be allocated to the State Agency through the redistribution of expenditure between the budget programmes of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. Thus, Bill No. 4464 does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources and does not affect the overall expenditure of the State budget. Budget figures are balanced. The Chief Scientific and Economic Authority of the Supreme Council makes comments, in particular, on the lack of adequate financial and economic justification for this bill. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food did not comment on the bill. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill on number 4464 to be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the Committee's proposals made in our letter to the bill, in particular on the elimination of irregularities, in accordance with the rules of law, as well as on the balance of budgetary indicators, taking into account the changes made to the budget for the consideration of the bill, in particular by law of 19 May of the current year (at number 1384). Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should the bill be adopted in the drafting of the relevant law, should provide it with the necessary editorial and technical legal details relating to the committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise that there is a common position under the proposed bill, and the agreement of all -- the factions, both the government and the committee. Technical question, does it need to be discussed?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u104	Well, me. Colleagues, I only see one person willing to speak and I give him my word. One minute, one minute, two minutes. Oleg Easy and we vote, we just can't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u105	Thank you, Mr. Head. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support a bill that provides for the allocation of additional financial resources to equip a newly created fishing patrol to have technology, boats no worse than poachers. Because today it's such a technique that they can't keep up with poachers. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to consider such a bill, to draw attention to the poacher. In the summer of August-month, I was in Hersonian. My colleague says there's no fish in Dniper. Why isn't she here? Because poachers are involved in conservation of fish resources. In Hersonland, in particular, this is the famous poacher Bogdan Artichik, who is the head of "Hersonribochron." And instead of protecting and chasing poachers, they're themselves smashing these poachers, carrying suitcases of money, and as a result, there's no fish in Dniper anymore. He's been violated by the head of the State Fisheries Agency of Kovalov Arena. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister to resign the head of the State Fisheries Agency. If you don't retire these poachers in the skins of the fish inspection, we'll send them to feed the fish so there's more fish in our ponds. In addition, we registered a bill a year and a half ago on the introduction of a moratorium on industrial fishing. Five years from now, our children will see fish in a museum under the glass next to dinosaurs through these poachers, called fish guards, who, instead of protecting the country’s fish stocks, are destroying them. So I demand the resignation of Arthur, the resignation of Kovalev, the resignation of all poachers in sheep's clothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Once again, this is a technical question, it unites everyone, and I ask you to prepare for the vote now. Please come into the hall, colleagues. All of it? I know, in general, yes. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on financial security for the reform of Ukraine's fisheries sector (number 4464) as proposed by the Committee to accept it as an immediate basis and as a whole. Who supports this proposal, colleagues, please vote, colleagues. Please, we all support, we all vote. Please vote. [[5:59:47]] For 233 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Colleagues, a moment of attention. We're obviously not going to be able to go back to the system bills. But we have four technical regulations that provide for changes in the administrative and territorial arrangements in the Luhansk and Donetsk areas. They don't need discussion, they don't need discussion, but they need our immediate solution to provide the citizens who are in a difficult situation. Can you count on your support to stay in the hall for the first time, secondly, support, colleagues? Is it supported? Then I continue to work for 15 minutes at the head’s right. And I ask you to vote, now to support the consideration of four regulations relating to changes in the territorial administration in the Lugansk, Donetsk areas, and to put it to a vote now. I would like to vote that we should move on to the debate now. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. For us it's five minutes, and that's the fate of the people. [[18:01:03]] For 203 Colleagues, not all of them may have understood. I'll ask Irina Heratchenko in one minute. And I'll say it again. One minute, Irina Heratchenko will explain the logic of those decrees. But I'm asking you to come into the hall. That's five minutes. Please, Mrs. Irina, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, we have made similar decisions on a number of occasions in order to ensure that the villages under control of the Ukrainian authorities are officially in occupied territory so that people there can receive wages. And this is about the villages where children live, pregnant women, pensions so that we can pay them off. Please, this is very important, there are people who have been there for months, and in the Lugansk and Donetsk region, they don't get a pension, it's our duty to help these areas in the gray area and in our area. Now we're voting to put it in the agenda right now, raise it, and then we're going to vote by the numbers already and by the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u108	Colleagues, I'm going to re-vote a motion for us to now consider Decrees 4896, 4929, 4930, 4931. And please, I'm really asking you to support me. It's the fate of the people. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. We'll be able to look at them in five or seven minutes. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:02:34]] For 227 Thank you very much, colleagues. Stay put, colleagues. Let me put them all first by a reduced procedure. Can I have your back, please? Short-term procedure, consideration. [[18:03:00]] For 207 Colleagues, I now ask the rapporteur, National Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenović, one report on all the drafts as soon as the chances that they will be accepted are cut short. Please, Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u109	Dear National Deputies! The first bill of 4896 on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Lugansk region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the cities of Złotogo and Girski Popasnian district of Lugansk. As the speaker said, the point is that the village council is part of that territory, part of the village in that area. So we need to attach them to a nearby neighborhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u110	Thank you, Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u111	It's all agreed. The committee passed. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-08-m1.u112	Colleagues, I bet it was a report by all decrees. I'll bet you a vote. First, draft Regulation No. 4896 as a basis and as a whole. Those who support such decisions would like to vote on the basis as a whole. Please, colleagues, vote. Please. [[18:04:28]] For 228 Thank you. Next draft Decision on changes in the administrative structure of the Donetsk Region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Sloviansk and the Slovak region of the Donetsk Region 4929. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Don't come out, buddy, get back in the hall. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[18:05:03]] For 229 It's been decided. The next one is 4930. Draft Decision on changes in the administration of the Donetsk region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Bahmut and the area of Bahmut in the Donetsk region, on the basis of and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[18:05:33]] For 230 It's been decided. And the last draft of the Decision on changes in the administration of the Donetsk Region, the modification and establishment of the borders of the city of Gorlovka and the region of Bahmut (4,931). The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:06:06]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you to the committee, thank you to the authors for their active, productive work. Colleagues, it was an important and very productive day. I thank everyone for their hard work. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll extend our work. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow.
