ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the hall. We'll start our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will have 30 minutes from the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. But before that, I would like to stress the order of the day, which is an extremely important day. Dear colleagues, as a result of our consideration of issues at the Conciliation Council, we have decided that we will first consider and approve with you draft laws related to the final implementation of the visa-free regime. A report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will also take place today. There is a fundamental Education Law to be considered in the first reading. There are a number of important laws that might be helpful to consider and approve today. At the same time, I think you all realize that the attention of our international partners is attached to our work today. And I would ask that today, in spite of the strained order of the day, we keep calm, act like people, normal, polite, with mutual respect for each other and with complete constructiveness. I urge all my colleagues to do just that today, regardless of factions, groups, political views, or nonfractional. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:04:46]] 349 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine All national deputies please take your seats. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please prepare to be recorded by the factions and groups. Please, Your Honor, sign up for the performance. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please welcome Victor Vasilovich Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I think that this week many people in the country will be very careful to monitor the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Everyone is looking forward to a change in the country, to a point in this shameful history of this parliamentary coalition, which has brought the country today into economic collapse, which has created with its own hands a government that has not had the ability to work properly and has not thought about the country, but has been thinking first of all about how to settle flows, how to carve out portfolios and how to steal from the country all the remains of the nation's property. Unfortunately, we see that today's coalition, today's culinary activity has come to the point of just being polite, not solving the issue of social protection, not solving the question of how to create a new economic policy in Ukraine, but only came to the point of dividing the portfolios, ministerial positions, state enterprises, corruption flows and, in fact, you're not changing anything in fact. You see, the whole country sees what your work has done. Today, you're in the coalition, you're in trouble, and you're showing that you're not involved in these processes. Yes, you, the dominant coalition, have led the country to the state in which the economy is today. You've led to the impoverishment of people, and you're responsible for everything that's going on here today. So let's not translate the blame on anyone, but first of all, to say frankly that you appointed ministers who then flew charters, you appointed ministers who didn't have any strategic opinion in the Ministry, you did nothing to turn the ministry into transparent mechanisms, into transparent activities, into democratic principles, into reform. And unfortunately, all of your work has resulted in us wasting our time and losing our economy in Ukraine. So today we see that all of these culinary, unfortunately, agreements once again lead to the fact that we don't see what the new composition of government is going to be, we don't see what the new economic policy is going to be, we don't see the strategy. And we see only one wish: to divide the portfolios again and settle down the corruption flows. That's why we're asking you: if you want to reload, let's make a clear offer: what's the new economic policy, what's the new human potential of the government, who's going to be represented, who's professionals, and so on. And these subversive culinary games to change old people into new people -- the same corrupt ones -- don't change the situation. So a real coalition conversation, go to the rostrum and report your real vision of how you're going to change the country and what are the real reforms, not these conversations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u3	Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Last week, the Minsk Accords were fulfilled. The signing of this document saved thousands of lives, avoided bloodshed, and further escalation of the conflict in the East. Unfortunately, in a year, Parliament has done nothing to bring the territories and people back to our legislative field. Despite all the calls of the world community to implement the Minsk Accords, the Supreme Council has ignored initiatives, including our 10 bills on peaceful initiatives to resolve the conflict at Donbassa. We insist on the inclusion of these issues in the order of the day in order to avoid the frozen conflict. We demand that the coalition immediately accept changes to the budget, index pensions and wages, and allocate money to support farmers and miners. Last week, I met with these people, and I again learned how far the power was from the problems of ordinary workers in Ukraine. Today’s policy of Kabmin, the changes to the Tax Code lead to the destruction of the real economy, the rise in unemployment, and poverty. I want to predict the beautiful words of the government about the success of the Ukrainian economy. There will be many figures, plans, and self - pianists that have nothing to do with real life. Walk through villages, mines, businesses -- and you'll see how people live, you'll see the real situation in the economy. Amazingly, with what zeal the government has entered the political tender for self - preservation. They are willing to give up everything to preserve their posts, but the responsibility for the poverty of most Ukrainians lies with coalitions and governments in comparison. European experience shows that a government that has failed is retired and a new government is formed instead. And a coalition that can't form a viable government goes to the polls. I believe that is how politicians should be accountable to their country and to their constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u5	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u6	Dear Head, national MPs, Ukrainian people! Today is an important day in Parliament, in the order of the day, bills that will bring Ukraine closer to introducing a visa-free regime with the EU. It was one of the requirements of the Dignity Revolution. The adoption of these bills is our tribute to the loving Ukrainian nation, which is a good signal to our European partners. The Ukrainians had long gone to become part of the European community. At the end of this week, the EU summit will begin in Brussels to address visa liberalisation with Ukraine. This decision of the European Union is important for every Ukrainian, and it is up to us to vote today and to continue the EU to decide whether our citizens will be able to travel to Europe without a visa this year. Today’s order is special because it requires responsible decisions and governmental positions. We'll hear a report from the government, the Supreme Council committees have already heard reports from ministers. We should finally determine how we feel about the government’s work. There are two options: to collect 150 signatures and 226 votes to vote in favour of his resignation, recognizing full responsibility for all the consequences that come literally from the following day. Because it launches a scenario of early elections and chaos. As a result of the collapse of the coalition and the holding of early parliamentary elections to the Council, there will be former regions and wild populists who will do everything they can to hold successive and presidential elections. Is that what our citizens expect of us? Or stop harmful speculation and let the government work at last. Continue to approve the government's work plan for the current year, add to the coalition agreement and work with a clear adherence to the coalition agreement and the action programme. The People's Front faction unanimously advocates the support of our coalition government and the Prime Minister. I am sure that in the session room, there is a predominance of members with a sense of civic integrity and governmental principles. Ukraine's future is in our hands! Either we're responsible parliamentarians, or we're reckless citizens and intriguers. Ukrainians, our allies abroad, expect balanced and constructive decisions from us. Together with the government and the President, Parliament must find a way out of the political scourge. The political crisis, the endless elections and the destabilization of the country is the desired scenario of the Kremlin's aggressor, its embodiment will have disastrous consequences for the state. And this scenario isn't new, we've seen what's happening in our neighbours in Moldova. I call for wisdom and balance. Today, the voice of each of us can determine the success or loss of Ukraine. Today we have to say yes! the coalition, the European Ukraine and the coalition government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. We have no right to fall off the path of reforms that lead Ukraine to full membership in the EU and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, "Will of the People" Group, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u8	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Having spent the last week in the constituency, my fellow MPs in a group with anxiety and pain are forced to say, I think we all have to say that the vast majority of people in rural areas in particular are driven to total poverty, their survival reserves are exhausted. And now people are beginning to feel the effects of the adoption of 38 social laws that have been stopped, deferred or translated into local authorities. So soon there will be a complete social collapse. As a result of this, as well as the destruction of the rest of the health system, the threat to the mass extinction of the population poses a severe reality, I emphasize, the mass extinction of the population. In particular, the nature of the epidemic has developed cancer. No treatment. The sick are just glamorous. The authorities continue to sweep people away without noticing it. Education, the social sphere, and the cultural sphere have led to a terrible state of misery. What's left is government innovation in the form of reforms. A visual example, a situation with vocational and technical education. It's still holding, not because of it, but because of the power, because of the motors. The last decision of the Supreme Council did not solve the problem, but it was merely an extension of the problem, the problem of the collapse of the vocational and technical education system. The united territorial communities, and in Zitomirsk, for example, nine, feel deceived and abandoned. Nothing's working. There is no link between the unified territorial communities. They do not know how to deal with the problems of education, health care, and so forth. Obviously, one thing is that the government is eager to proclaim reforms, and they are reversed by negative results. The government's latest tax innovations, particularly in the area of land rent increases, are finally killing business because there is a resurgence. People have become completely disillusioned in power and are indignant about their complete inadequacy. If we listen to the speeches of the Kiev leaders, people say that if the government does not want to resign, has zero support for the people, and the Supreme Council cannot do that, then let the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers change the people, or the West, which supports this government take it to themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u9	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Now I want to show you the great success of fighting corruption in the Dnipropetrov region. Please show the video. Attention. [[Video Record Preview]] You can see the Scripper standing there in his jacket and T-shirt. [[Video Record Preview]] Listen up, that's not all, attention. [[Video Record Preview]] And now, dear colleagues, a history of questions. Last week, along with the farmers of the Novomoskov region, we went to the district attorney’s office of Proppetrov, demanding the protection of farmers’ rights. In the court of the district attorney's office, we saw the new Range Rover in 2015, its minimum cost of 115 thousand euros. As it turns out, this car is being used by the head of the district attorney’s office’s task force, Maxim Scripnik. The numbers you saw on the Range Rover, 0049, are the left numbers that are actually registered to another car, Lexus, when the investigation found out that this is the number of the mother's sister's car, the head of the prosecution's department. The woman you just saw is the mother of a prosecutor who came, a 70-year-old mother, and said it was her car. Of course, the whole country knows that the most successful businessmen in this country are relatives of prosecutors, judges, deputies, officials and everyone else. Neither the orphan nor the worker nor the peasant can be successful if he does not have a hairy hand. The prosecutor claimed that it wasn't his car, even though Dnipro knows she's driving. That's all the reform in the D.A.'s office. They moved from the old Range Rovers to the new Range Rovers. Here's your new D.A.'s office. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires the resignation of the Attorney General and the release of all of them to one prosecutor. The Radical Party demands the resignation of the Attorney General and the release of all of them to one prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u11	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u12	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the government report planned for today according to current legislation is the most interesting issue for journalists and 75 percent of citizens who are convinced of the need to resign. However, the faction of WFP, after deciding on the recognition of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as unsatisfactory, is prepared to sign the government’s resignation papers in the event of an appropriate vote. I would like to draw the attention of MPs and fellow countrymen to the strategic issue. Governments come and go, and the strategic, geopolitical choice of the country is more important. We have a unique situation today when Parliament is to adopt the last package for Ukraine's visa-free regime. The adoption of this law will allow, on February 19th, appropriate European factors to make a historic decision on the return of the Ukrainian State to Europe after 350 years of Russian captivity. I call on all the people's deputies: despite the inadequacy of the texts that have always been introduced on the last night by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or submitted by the Cabinet through the President, which, among other things, demonstrates the inadequacy of the work of the Cabinet, but still to vote in favour of these bills. This is the historic moment of Ukraine's return to Europe. And millions of our fellow countrymen are supporting us in the need for a visa-free regime. I think it should unite the hall today and set the tone to talk about resigning the government. For the rest of my time, please give a word to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, today the world’s international community celebrates the day of a cancer child. I want to point out that in Ukraine, every year we diagnose over a thousand cancers in children, 1 out of every 4 children dies. First of all, leukosis, second of all, brain tumors, third of all, lymphomas. Today, the state does not fully provide for the treatment of these children. Once again, 1 out of every 4 children in Ukraine dies with a chance to live. The Health Committee of the Ministry of Health’s Department of Drug Administration, by organization, was found to be completely unsatisfactory. And I am calling on all the members of the Supreme Council to support the decision of the Health Committee and the inadequate work of the Prime Minister, whose decision has increased the price of medicines in pharmacies and the price of comparative prices that allow us and give us a chance to fight corruption. So once again, I would like to point out that the decision of the deputies is based on the lives of Ukrainian children, not just all children, but also children with cancer who have the capacity to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u16	I invite you to look at an exhibition of portraits of those children who have overcome cancer in Ukraine, which is on the first floor of the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u17	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u18	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! One of the previous speakers has already raised this issue when we are under the heart of a visa-free regime, we are being offered extremely weak bills. I am absolutely grateful to the previous speaker for such an assessment of what we are offered to vote on. The Fatherland faction undoubtedly supports visa-free treatment for all Ukrainians. But we absolutely do not support the transformation of Ukraine under these correct slogans into a police state in which human rights are totally nullified. These are the documents of the European Union, the so-called sixth report of the European Commission and the European Parliament, which requires that Ukraine do to overcome the visa-free regime. This is 42 European Union Directive on the freezing of assets and special confiscation. And these are the two draft laws that passed yesterday that require us to vote today. These laws have nothing to do with these European instruments. What are we offered in these projects? We are asked, first, that a special confiscation appears to apply not only to corruption but to all crimes that are intended for a particular part and are deliberate. So it's not about the corrupts, it's about any Ukrainian citizen who might be subject to a special confiscation. What is a special confiscation? A special confiscation is when you and ordinary citizens take property essentially without trial and investigation just because someone thinks maybe 10 years ago with this property, there's a person near that property that the authorities want to put in jail. Once again, the authorities are working on a way to impose the responsibility of ordinary citizens, whom they call third parties. So any property you've bought 10 years ago, 5 years ago, can be recognized as being used by someone they want to put in jail, and you'll have this property taken without your involvement in court, without your ability to defend your rights in court. They'll take it, they'll sell it, and they'll give you back 10 years' worth of money that was supposedly valued. There is a second law on the agency. It turns out that this agency can not only take this property away, it can sell it without trial and investigation, it can process it without trial and investigation, it can do anything with it, without having any evidence, without any reason. The Fatherland faction is ready to work on these bills day and night to bring them to the requirements of the European Union in order to ensure a visa-free regime. As a last resort, let us vote on these bills in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u19	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u20	We will work very actively on this and bring these bills into normal human form, so that we don't have to use a visa-free regime to go all over the country outside Ukraine. As far as I know, the committee meeting just ended, which made a similar decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u21	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u22	Your Honour, Mr. Head, the noble fellow MPs! We want to talk about power today, we want to talk about the power of the country's only representative body, Parliament. Every faction has people who understand and realize their responsibility to owners, the only owner of this organ, people, because they talk to them every day. And there will be peace and development in the country when this body has the power to hear and listen to these people. And there will be no chaos or trouble in the country when the power of Parliament is in the interests of the people. And today we are close to what we are together: Parliament, President and Government -- we will make a responsible decision, not resignation, but the decision of the country's development when the government says, yes, we have done what we can, but we have done no more, and so together we will form a new government with you that will trust your owner, the Ukrainian people. And this is the responsible and strong position of Parliament, and then there will be peace in the state. We ask you to recognize each of your own strengths, which you have with the will of men. Today, in Parliament, lists for a government resignation order. These lists are initiated by the Self-Help faction, the Fatherland faction, the Radical Party faction, independent non-fractional deputies. This list is also initiated by WFP. We sign any list. Any list that will show the consolidated power of the Ukrainian Parliament for the development of the country and the people in that country. Remember this responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council was offered by Irina Heraszczenko, two minutes from international issues. Please, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all my colleagues that, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we have decided to give the floor to take advantage of the attention that has been paid to today's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to pay attention, first of all, to our international partners, to what is happening to the failure to fulfil the humanitarian aspects of the Minsk Treaties by the Russian Federation and its warlords. I also thank the colleagues on the Committee on Human Rights and Foreign Affairs with whom we have prepared a statement together, and I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will vote on it. But, honourable colleagues, indeed, a year ago, the Minsk Accords were signed, and now and still the world, first and foremost, is paying attention to the political bloc of the Minsk Treaties, while the key, principled aspects are the humanitarian aspects. Today, the Ukrainian security service, 137 Ukrainians, is currently being held in prison for 10 of them. And last week, the militants made a shocking statement, which by cynicism reminds her of the rhetoric of IDII that they can apply the death penalty to Ukrainians based on the Criminal Code of a non-existent country, the Soviet Union. We appreciate these terrible statements, not just as the blackmail of Ukraine and the abuse of the relatives of the hostages, it's an extremely serious pressure on the hostages and it's a danger to their lives. And unfortunately, we didn't hear any reactions, no country of the world, no humanitarian organization, no Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, from the Ukrainian Parliament, we want to call upon our international partners to demand, first and foremost, that the Russian Federation be required of its fighters to respect human rights, respect for human rights and demand the release of our hostages. And I ask you to support such a statement prepared by the three committees of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. I ask everyone to take their seats and concentrate now, and we are going to consider a package of laws related to the introduction of a visa-free regime. That's what we need. They were prepared by the government, worked by the President and introduced by the President of Ukraine, and defined as urgent. So there is a proposal to now vote as we agreed on the Conciliation Council yesterday, with the inclusion in the agenda of these laws for decision-making. So we're going to start looking at these draft laws. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We're taking our seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now voting for the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws relating to the introduction of a visa-free regime. Please prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats. I propose to approve the decision to include in the agenda for consideration and adoption of draft laws, registration number 4056P, 4054P and 4055P. Ready? Colleagues, please vote on the proposal: putting into order the daily package of visa-free laws that I have just announced for inclusion in the agenda, consideration and decision-making. Ready? Vote, please. Vote, vote, please. [[10:37:34]] For 237 Offer accepted. Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats, and we will consider the laws. First draft of Act (4056): Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the sixth European Commission report on the status of Ukraine's implementation of a plan of action for the liberalisation of visa regimes by the European Union for Ukraine on the improvement of the principles of the activities of the National Agency for the detection, search and management of assets derived from corruption and other crimes. Please report to Justice Minister Paul Petrenko. Please, Pavel Dmitrovitch. There's an offer from the reporter: to consider a reduced procedure. But if they want to say something, I'll give them a chance. Please consider the simplified procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[10:38:50]] For 158. The decision has been made. Please, Pavel Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u26	Good people's deputies! You will be given a review of draft Law 4056: amending certain legislative acts on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the sixth European Commission report on Ukraine's implementation of the European Union's Action Plan on Liberalisation of the Visa Regime for Ukraine on improving the principles of the activities of the National Agency for the detection, search and management of assets derived from corruption and other crimes. The draft law was designed to implement those recommendations that were made by the last, final mission, which indicated that Ukraine had practically fully fulfilled its obligations under the visa-free regime, and provided conditions: to bring our Act on the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets into conformity with European legislation and directives of the European Union. This law was developed jointly with representatives of the European Commission. They gave the right conclusions to the text of the law, and we're actually bringing it into line with that first-reading edition that was made by the government back in November last year. Please, Your Honor, support this bill. I know that this morning, I have considered it, and I am very responsible for it, because it will be evaluated on February 19th of this year by representatives of the European Commission, to determine whether Ukraine is ready to refer our question to the European Parliament and, in fact, to the Ukrainians this year's visa-free right to travel to the European Union. Please identify and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u27	Thank you, Pavel Dmitrovich. Please report to the committee head. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u28	There was already a big discussion in this room about the ideas that the President once again proposed after consulting the European Commission. You remember that you and I passed the law on the creation of a special agency for the administration of arrested property, which is to replace today’s very corrupt practices when property is actually managed by an investigator often in conspiracies with a judge. In the ideas proposed by the President, there are three new decisions that had a major debate in Parliament. The first decision is to set up a regular salary law for the agency's employees. We have already said last time that the committee supports this standard because good wages allow for the acquisition of good workers. Two other ideas sparked a major debate in the hall, and were eliminated during the previous vote, and now again proposed by the President after consultations with the European Commission. One idea is to set up a special fund where money from property management will be counted. And the second idea is to let the agency actually manage the property being arrested, including handing it over to other companies, other banks in other procedures. Last time, this was a huge denial by parliamentarians, because there were fears that this would be abuse, and when it was appointed, the bad leaders of the agency could become a big corruption nurse. However, the law that we have adopted foresees that all leadership will be chosen for the competition, a powerful public council that will also be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u30	And, as I said, the President's law proposes to set up high wages that allow normal administrators to enter this agency. Our committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve the bill in the first reading and continue to debate these norms, which cause discussion, ready to work day and night.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u31	Please sign up: two for, two against. But I would very much ask, let's not invent a bicycle, there's a package of laws, it needs to be considered. Please sign in. The People's Front, the People's Deputy of Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u32	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. I want to point out that the People's Front will definitely support this bill, we should all remember why we adopted these bills in the first reading, for which our European partners then adjusted them. And all we have to do is point out that these bills were submitted by the President, but de facto, as the Minister of Justice said, these are government bills that have been slightly distorted by the committee's consideration. That's why the European Union, European colleagues are correcting us right now, and we need to support them to get a visa-free regime to get close to Europe, and we need to support them together, and this bill will show us the unity of both the President and the Prime Minister and all of our coalition. Please vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u33	Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, once again, the Fatherland faction undoubtedly supports the visa-free regime for Ukraine and liberalisation. But first of all, what we are offered under this bill has nothing to do with European requirements. Once again, the representative of Parliament's largest faction made it clear that these bills were impregnable, but still demanded that we accept them in general, which is absurd. What exactly does this bill say? He's talking about, first of all, we're creating 158 anti-corruption agencies. Oh, come on, God, she should be working just like the previous 157. They want us to create, but what authority is given to this agency? Once again, this bill is in connection with the law on special confiscation and arrest. I would like to emphasize once again that the specific seizure and arrests apply to all Ukrainian citizens, not just corruption. It's about any property being seized and arrested. Any property of yours, even if you have nothing to do with the commission of an offence. And this agency now, I quote, can sell and use, manage, and even process the property that belongs to you. In doing so, you know, unlike some of the deputies who are not very experienced, I remember taking 20 percent of the tax revenue from Azarova. Yeah, this agency wants to make 10 percent of what they are, what they control. Did they find the treasure? What are they, laymen? Remember, there was a rule in the Soviet Union that found a foundation — 25 percent. That's the same thing here. It's direct corruption. This has nothing to do with European requirements. It can be like an extreme vote in the first reading, as the committee head says, day and night.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u35	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u36	And day and night work to bring this law to a normal European level. And perhaps as soon as possible, vote it out so that the visa-free regime does not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u37	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, we are all now witnessing another simulation of the fight against corruption. Bills are being tabled to Parliament again. They tell us what we need to do in Europe, but at the same time they say that the laws are innocuous, let us vote on them as a whole. Show me at least one European Parliament, which votes against innocuous laws, by violating the procedure, in violation of the requirements of legislation. It's in shape. In fact, it is. Where is the fight against corruption? Why did Minister of Economic Development Abromavichus make statements about corruption in the context of the President? Where is the National Anti-Corruption Office, where is the anti-corruption prosecutor? Why did we allocate half a billion dollars to this office to go after the inspectors or to run after the friends of the President and the Prime Minister? Why do they not hold the responsibility of high officials? Why the anticorruption bureau of the A.T.R.A., it's beautiful in the background of the A.T.R. The Anti-Corruption Bureau needs not BTRs, but the brain needs political will to investigate corruption in order to take on those in power today rather than simulate the fight against corruption. The whole country sees the simulation of reforms, the simulation of the fight against corruption, and in fact those who talk the most about the fight against corruption do. The Radical Party faction is not going to participate in this simulation. You, the authorities, you, the Parliamentary Coalition, the government, and all those in power today, are responsible, including for the disgraceful situation in the queen's fight against corruption. Start with yourself! Retired Attorney General Shokin, may the anti-corruption prosecutor of the Netherlands renounce the general title he received at the age of 30 by secret decree of the President. For what? - he's asking. Where are the results of the fight against corruption? He's gone and he won't be with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u39	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Why is it so important that this week, not just on the basis of the proposed legislation, but on the basis of it as a whole? Because it is this week that a high-level group of countries of the European Union (CES) will make appropriate recommendations and the European Commission will also give appropriate recommendations to the Council of the EU when this issue will be addressed by the legislative initiative and the Council of the EU and, above all, by the European Parliament. And now, dear colleagues, it is up to you to decide whether Ukraine in one packet with Georgia will go to the same question, whether Ukraine as a country that does its homework unfairly will be disconnected, and you yourself will be aware of all the appropriate risks. In December 2015, the President of Ukraine at the Brussels mini summit achieved that we had actually received such a positive sixth report from the EU, but there is, in fact, the European Commission's homework. And today the responsibility lies with the members of the Supreme Council, each faction. That's why we have to adopt these bills as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I urge all of you to open your pockets, the official page of the European Representation in Ukraine, and Mr. Tombinsky's statement, which has just issued an appropriate statement that the European Union expects the Supreme Council to adopt these bills today as a whole, which are in line with European Union law. Because it was you and me last December that cooled them out, and today we have our mistakes to correct, because fighting corruption is not just a loud slamming of the door, creating platforms and statements, it's a very thorough piece of legislation. And this is the job then to bring our legislation to the European Union's standards. And that's why our faction insists on the adoption of these bills proposed by the President as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u43	Please, Anton Yatzenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, no one is opposed to Euro-integration, but we have been watching for a year or more when, under the aversion of Euro-integration, we are given absolute laws that are said to have nothing to do with this process. Now the news is that the European Union is very concerned about what laws have passed. Today, this law allows, for example, an investigator to arrest any object, even a third person, a fourth person so-called, and transfer it to this agency, and without trial or investigation, it simply implements it. And if the criminal case is closed later, they'll say you'll get out of the budget. So this puts a very high risk of raiding property. And first of all, it's about large businesses that are constantly watching raids. So in our opinion, we cannot accept it in any way. And the MP's Rebirth Party won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u45	Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, you remember that last time this bill, the winning bill has caused great debate, because this bill is a matter that we have to write very carefully, especially when it comes to managing property and handling property that has been arrested, not confiscated, arrested property. Yesterday we had quite a lengthy discussion with the drafters about the bill, and we found a common position by at least two standards. I would like it to be reflected in the text of the law. Position one. If the arrest of accounts should not result in the physical removal of money, because the arrest of accounts means the inability to use it. In this regard, we agreed that money removal could take place only if, according to the National Bank, the bank referred to the category of insolvent persons. I ask that this amendment be introduced into the bill. Edit the second one. The bill provides for the possibility of processing and managing property, and the sale of property is sufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u47	Complete, please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u48	A rather extensive interpretation of the list of this property, which allows for the arrest of property to sell anything. In this regard, we agreed with the authors on another rule yesterday. This is at least some step that responds to the risks posed by this standard. The point is that this property should be confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I ask the Minister of Justice to confirm at least these two norms to enter into the text of our law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u49	Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I confirm. Indeed, these technical changes can be made to the text of the law. This is about articles 20 and 21. In our 20th article, we clarify the question that funds can be transferred from a person’s deposit account to another account if the National Bank’s conclusion on creating conditions for the bank’s recognition is problematic or insolvent. As far as article 21 is concerned. For example, it is suggested to change the same way that a sample of such property is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, all the property defined in article 21, paragraph 4. That's why I think that in working or voting in general with technical and legal regulations, it would be possible to support such an amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parbius.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Deputies! At this moment, Parliament is going through a serious test. We're going to listen to the government report today, and now we're going to have our report, our exam before the Ukrainians. before Ukrainian society. Because those laws that we adopt are a direct rule of the requirements for visa-free treatment for our citizens. But those laws are primarily anticorruption laws. They're not new to us, for our room, we've discussed them all, and we've made the same arguments. The argument is that inadequacy laws do not meet the requirements. And the last time we discussed it, the key, fundamental moments were removed from the body of those laws. Europeans have, of course, returned these requirements and said, without these standards, that there will be no valid rules, particularly regarding the agency for the detection of corruption, of the visa-free regime. In fact, everyone understands in this room, colleagues, everyone understands and tries to talk about this issue, about the inadequacy of laws, about the fact that they do not meet European requirements. I would like to inform you that an hour ago, in order to be clear, the EU Ambassador to Ukraine, Tombinsky, named these bills and 4056, which we are now considering as one that fully meets European requirements. Once again, all standards are discussed. We discussed them all. It is our 19th time when the European Commission will present a legislative proposal to the European Council and to the European Parliament, whether Georgia and Ukraine will be taken together for a visa-free regime, or whether Ukraine will be removed from the process. Then everyone who does not vote for those bills today will be personally responsible to the citizens of Ukraine for not allowing them to feel free to feel free in the free world. Everyone knows that, and everyone understands that. Many fear these bills, and they are rightly afraid. I call upon, my fellow Members, to vote both on the basis and on the whole of these bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have time. These bills were fully discussed. This is our exam before the Ukrainian society, this is our report before Ukraine, and when we vote, everyone will demonstrate whether or not he passed this report and this exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am. Dear colleagues, I see that a number of factions are not ready to vote in favour right now. In general, for this bill. Especially Fatherland, Self-Help, Radical Party, parliamentary groups. I have another offer. Let us make a decision: To adopt this draft law as a basis, with a view to considering it on Thursday. For on Friday, well, you realize that the procedure will be very brief for the second reading, and for us to finally approve these laws on Thursday. Well, of course, yes, with the possibility of introducing rights to second reading, of course. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this logic. But once again, I want to emphasize. Please take your seats. Yeah, yeah, with the paperwork. It's going to be the same thing. We're going to prepare for the second reading with technical law. Paul Petrenko, announce what adjustments in the first reading. Attention, colleagues! Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, once again, we support the proposal that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik made. This article 20 of the bill, paragraph 1, will read in the paper, which is proposed: "They shall be placed in the deposit accounts of the National Agency in the relevant currency or in the bank metal opened in public banks, determined on competitive grounds in accordance with the established legislation on public procurement under the contract of a bank contribution to the requirement, if there is a conclusion of the National Bank on the creation of conditions for recognition of the bank as problematic or insolvent." And the second technical amendment is article 21 of the same bill, paragraph 4. We're changing the following words here, after the words "at least, not below the market," a new sentence reads: "the average list of such property is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u55	So the first amendment can be absolutely acceptable and the second amendment will be prepared for the second reading. And so, attention! I'm asking everyone to support this decision, colleagues. The question is that we're doing a visa-free plan with you, someone likes it, doesn't like it, they're going to have to register all the property. Well, how? We're going to have to fill out an electronic declaration. Well, it's no big deal. We've all been through this, and we'll go through it. And we'll go through it with you. You don't have to be afraid of it. Therefore, the proposal is: to adopt this draft law as a basis for the inclusion of the first amendment announced by the Minister of Justice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two adjustments. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Listen to the suggestion: On the basis of the first amendment announced by Paul Petrenko, the minister, under the transcript, for the purpose of preparing and considering the final decision on Thursday, February 18. Dear colleagues, that was the first offer. Dear colleagues, Parliament can take decisions on procedural matters, according to procedure. Do you accept that offer, colleagues? On the basis of the first amendment announced by Justice Minister Paul Petrenko, with a view to finalizing the matter on Thursday, the consideration and adoption of the decision on February 18, Thursday. Is it accepted? That's the proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please vote. Based on the base. Please support everyone, colleagues. Based on the first amendment for final consideration on Thursday. Please vote. [[11:05:28]] For 282 The law's been passed. Was there a whole offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I just... No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the whole signal vote, in the second reading and in general. With Petrenko's amendment. Signal voting with Petrenko's amendment first and second as a whole. But alert, colleagues. Attention! Attention! Please, first and second corrections, emergency. With the repairs. in general, with the first and second amendments of Paul Petrenko, the minister of justice. There's an offer Irina Heratchenka made. Vote! I support all options, we need a visa-free regime for people. Vote. [[11:06:38]] For 219 The factions. Colleagues, 217, we're not there. Please. 219. Let's do it again. Colleagues, focus. Same offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general with the two amendments of Paul Peter 4056. Please support everyone. Please support everyone! Signal. Please vote. Signal! Please vote, please support everyone. Vote. Vote! I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's support it. [[11:07:44]] For 209 119 – "Clock of Peter Poshenko", "National Front" – 70, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Rebirth" – 0, "non-fractional" – 6. We've made our decision before. Tomorrow, until 3:00 p.m., please make an amendment and make an offer on Thursday. Colleagues, 4054, draft law. 4054: Draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Sixth European Commission Report on the status of Ukraine's implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine (4054). Paul Petrenko reports. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. [[11:08:57]] For-162 The decision has been made. Please, Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this is the second law in a package of visa-free laws, number 4054, which brings our legislation, criminal and criminal procedure legislation on matters relating to the specific confiscation and arrests, to European standards. We discussed both with fellow MPs, and with the experts of the European Commission, the text of the laws is given. And literally an hour ago, the representative of the European Union in Ukraine made a public statement that supported both this and the previous law in that text that was introduced by the President, and asked Parliament to vote in general, because these laws are necessary for us to actually get 19 numbers in real terms, for Ukraine to be able to get visa-free status literally in the coming months. Therefore, I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill and to vote on it as a whole. It allows our law enforcement authorities, in fact, to return assets from those individuals who were actually used by corrupters, the highest corrupters as the rightful people: offshore companies, third parties. I want to undo the myths. There are no issues in this law that apply to a specific confiscation without a court ruling. There are no questions in this law regarding the selection of human property without judgment on the basis of primary criminal conduct. There are no scarecrows in this law that apply to the imposition of general arrests on any property. On the contrary, this law adds additional guarantees to third parties in part of the judicial protection and control of the investigators themselves when they make decisions regarding the arrest, including the evidence of the case. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u57	Please report. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u58	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to say again that I, as a national of Ukraine, am the head of the committee entirely for the citizens of Ukraine to receive as soon as possible the visa-free regime that we are promised so far. And I think this process should be transparent and honest once. Secondly, I don't understand these hints that someone out there is constantly talking, international experts. I'm just seeing Tombinski's comments right now that the Procurator's Law, which the President has introduced, is very much on his mind. Something doesn't work, you know, it's not normal. So, colleagues, this is the law that's just about to happen. The project that the Minister has just reported is, in principle, accepted with us and signed by the President. But all the same, sorry, there's also a need for change that's going to give someone something to take away what they want. That's what I'd like to comment on. So, colleagues, the committee reviewed this project today at the request of the President. And with respect to the President, first of all. Although I believe that his assistants and the government are not doing very well here, it is only at night that these laws are governed. The committee believes that this bill should be finalized. He has a lot of complaints. So it was decided that it would be on the basis only today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u59	Please sign up: two for, two against. Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u60	I give the word to Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the minister of justice has just been speaking, and for reasons unknown to me, he is misleading the session hall. I have a bill in my hands. I don't know what they want. I have bill 4054 in my hands. The project is submitted by the President of Ukraine, and I quote: "Special confiscation is free removal by decision of the State's own court, money in the event of a deliberate crime (i.e. any) or a socially dangerous act that falls within the scope of an act envisaged by a particular part of the Code." This, Your Honor, is called: No trial. Because if there are only signs of action, and there is no judgment on what a person is guilty, that means – without a trial. That's the first one. The other one. The second is about Ukrainian citizens. I emphasize once again: this law does not apply to corrupters, this law applies to every citizen of Ukraine – everyone! You are shyly referred to as third parties, that is, those who seem not to have been involved in the crime, but those whose property the investigator thinks has any signs or relationship with the person who has committed the act that falls under the signs of a crime that is part of it. Under this abracadabro, the normal language, is that any of you can take your property without trial or investigation, pass it on to that agency that we voted on the previous time, the agency will sell it, will keep it 10 percent, and give you 10 years' worth of money at some unknown estimate. These are the ones that are offering us in these bills. Let me stress again: based on the work. No police state, no visa regime in normal Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u62	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u63	It's not political. It's not political. I understand that one faction here responds to every word of the government and supports everything. It all tarnishes by blinding our eyes to human rights violations and violations of fundamental principles of law. Let's get to work. The visa-free mode is yes! The police state in Ukraine is not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u64	Mikola Petrovich. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, today at an early committee meeting, we are very much gathered to consider this bill. Unfortunately, I have to point out that the criticism that sounded here and sounded on the committee has taken place, it's absolutely justified. But on the committee I said, and now I want to repeat the historical fact that when my mother was married to the young Queen of England, she said, close your eyes and think about England. Likewise now, unfortunately, when we face the historic possibility of joining the European community, knowing all the inadequacy of the document, condemning the way the document is submitted from night to morning, we still have to close our eyes and think about Ukraine, vote in favour of those laws, and then professionally introduce them into full contact with our European partners. I urge everyone now to think about European Ukraine and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u66	Please, National Deputy Opanasenko, Self-Help. Olena Sotnik, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, these bills could perhaps be voted on in another state. But in a country where, I'm sorry, the prosecutor's office is not reformed today and the shockinism is flourishing, and where police terror is still present, it's a crime to vote for these laws. Because, in fact, these laws provide for the common people with complete invulnerability, complete despotism and complete lawlessness, sorry, by the law enforcement agencies. I have a directive here, the 42nd Directive, to which we were to bring the bill into line. Mr. Petrenko, if you don't have a translation of this directive, I'll give it to you. So this directive doesn't record all the crime scenes, and you actually include almost all the crimes under special confiscation. I demand the government, I demand the Ministry of Occupational Work Justice. You must properly comply with the requirements of the European Union. The European Union is talking about what we need to bring into line with the directives. Please take the directive, read it carefully, and the relevant changes should be made to this law, and only after that can it be voted after that. And the last. We're with you now. I'm in a great hurry for us to adopt these laws. I have a report here according to the visa-free regime and it's clearly stated that we have to make these changes in the first quarter of 2016. This means that by the end of March we have time for this. And you don't have to turn Parliament into shit, sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u68	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u69	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Dear Ukrainian people, colleagues, these laws, a series of laws that we need to adopt, and yet in order to get a visa-free regime, the corrupts who have settled in the cabinets want an equal, not an equal, low-level amendment to correct and make our country a police state. These laws need to be read again, some like this one, specifically this one, do not have to be voted at all, it's raw. Therefore, the People's Will Group will not vote in favour of this bill. And everyone else will be sent to pre-work. We're against voting for a given set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u70	Irina Heratschenko, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this whole level of discussion is happening because, over a year and a half, the government that we're going to be discussing today has not been able to create a special structure that would be an expert in legislation, and so that we don't have a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a moment and a minute and a half are here to be discussed, this bill is in line with European law or not in line with European law, but rather with relevant expertise. Similarly, there is still no appropriate translation office in the government of European directives in order for us to be aware of the appropriate discussions. And so it's very important that we draw that conclusion, and it was created. But when it comes to the bill, it is truly surprising. Double standards that just sounded in the speeches of very European colleagues. Because the title of the bill must correspond to the essence. And in December we heard the same thing, including from the friendly faction of the coalition: but there will be no visa-free regime, but there will be no need to vote for anti-discrimination laws, that will be nothing. But we were able to get an advance on the positive sixth report from the European Commission, where it is very clear that we have to bring into line with this report the very work of anti-corruption structures and relevant agencies that are supposed to be involved in the arrest of corrupt property. And it's not platforms that form, like mushrooms after rain, in parliaments, that have to fight corruption, that's what legislation is. Georgia, which we are going with today in one pack, has passed these laws. And my colleague's right that we can really accept everything by April, but then we'll be looked at in another package, not with Georgia. And I think, Mrs. Oleno, and you and your faction, you're well aware of the risks we're at risk of taking into account the referendum in the Netherlands for April of this year. So I ask you to consider this bill in a set of all the risks facing Ukraine and to vote it now on the first reading as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u72	Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, today is a very responsible day, because today we must adopt a package of bills that introduces a visa-free regime for our citizens. The second anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, which began with people going out to make Ukraine a European state. And today some factions are calling out, calling for us to work on these documents. But we've been working for three months and we've been hearing them whiny. Please take the responsibility to vote in favour, and we still give our citizens the hope of going to Europe without a visa this year. This is our personal and personal responsibility, each deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, let's move on. Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u75	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, about the visa-free regime. I think before we push mega-corruption laws into a visa-free regime one more time, we have to report to those who said that everything was ready, everything was normal, in December, they passed all the laws of the New Year, and they're already going to give us 100 percent of the visa-free regime. Something happened to that report! What happened? What changed in one month? Why is the visa-free regime all but now more than a month and a half ago? Well, I have the impression that in a month there'll be another visa-free regime, then a quarter, then a year from now, then there'll be a visa-free regime with individual countries and so on. This will allow for a complete change in Ukrainian legislation. What is now proposed under this seemingly visa-free regime? Although I am sure that European diplomats did not read this law in English because it was physically impossible to translate it now. So it's suggested, for example, that there be one norm that any Ukrainian firm that is small and medium-sized business that is now "breathing on incense" can be destroyed, because if a small and medium-sized business has any indirect connection to some kind of hypothetically corrupt business.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u77	If a business has any indirect relationship with any company that has any elements, signs of fiction, this gives the tax collector immediate cause to completely destroy it, confiscate all the property and put it in place, completely destroy this small and medium - size business.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u78	Jacinka, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, this is another example where the government introduces laws that are not entirely in line with world practice and are aimed at just one thing: Ryder's capture of any assets, property. And it should be considered exclusively in the context of the previous law. Once again, it can't be accepted, because it will allow any investigator, even the district police, to arrest, for example, any big factory, to hand it over to the agency, to arrest, then sell it for free, and then there'll be no one to ask. That's why the Rebirth Party won't support this law as well as the previous one, because it's a raiding corruption scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u80	Please, two minutes, Paul Petrenko. And let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, well, very hot discussion in the hall, as always, when it comes to adopting any anti-corruption laws. For example, when anticorruption laws are passed, our deputies refer to ordinary Ukrainians as being persecuted by the law enforcement system. And it is likely that everyone thinks only of themselves that these things can be related to a common corrupter, including a high - ranking owner. I want to remind you, my friends, in November of the first time these laws were introduced, there was the same discussion. And then we warned them that they would have to be brought back to the government. And now we have not just some comments, but official positions on every law of our European colleagues. And the laws were translated, and they made specific comments on it, in every article. I can give Mrs. Stonik these comments in English so you can read. So I'm asking you very much, let's clear these passions and do our duty to Ukrainian society. Because these laws need more than just Europeans, these laws need the Ukrainian people to really be mechanisms to fight corruption. And the question of the law enforcement system is also our responsibility, the reform of the prosecutor's office and the courts. And this reform needs to be carried out in this room, not a reference to bad courts and prosecutors. Change the courts and the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u82	Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u83	I didn't hear the last name. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Look, well, obviously we need to adopt these laws. There have been several amendments that have been included in the previous vote but have not been synchronized with European partners. Is it so difficult to support decisions that will allow us to implement a visa-free regime plan? I don't get it. So I urge everyone to take a state position and vote in favour of these decisions. And not to think of it as evil, but rather to put a dot in visa-free mode. People should be given the right to travel peacefully throughout the European Union. It's absolutely obvious, it's absolutely real. Please take our seats, colleagues. 4054 draft law. Ready? Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats. Colleagues, 4054. Please take your seats. So, honorary colleagues, 4054, signal vote. 4054, signal vote. We vote on the basis and in general, what you love. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general, please vote, a signal vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:30:01]] For 202 Doesn't take that vote. A similar offer, colleagues. On the basis of 4,054, with the aim of final adoption and adoption on Thursday, February 18, the amendment will have to be made by 12 a.m. tomorrow. After the last 15 hours, and after that, up to 12 hours. I ask you to support this offer, Your Honor. Based on the base. Until 12 o'clock. Tomorrow's the 12th. On the ground, with the aim of final approval, Thursday, February 18. I'm asking you all to support this offer, colleagues. Vote? Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Please vote. Please support everyone. [[11:31:01]] For 264 The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block - 126, People's Front - 64, Self-Help - 21, Radical Party - 14, Father's Party - 15, Will of the People - 1, non-fractional - 23. Please, colleagues, according to procedure, please. I'm asking you one more thing, colleagues. On Thursday, be present at the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine and finally adopt these draft laws. This is important because the 19th is going to be a meeting in the European Union. I will. I say again, I'm all nicknames with letters that don't support these laws, I'm going to be on "The Council." Rotation: 5 nicknames per minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] At least 30 shots! But the country needs to know its heroes. They took the vote, they went on. Colleagues, 4055. Draft Act (Registration No. 4055) amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act to ensure transparency in the organization of the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office with a view to implementing the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. The Minister of Justice is Petrenko. A. reports Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba. There's an offer, my dear fellows, to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Short cut. [[11:32:49]] For-119 120, colleagues. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Colleagues. We need 150 votes, we vote. [[11:33:27]] For-127 You want it that way, so be it. Stepan of Cuba, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we have already adopted a number of important bills, legislative acts aimed at improving social relations in important areas of life, our country's activities and bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with EU standards. However, the completion of the mentioned process, we see today, is not a simple, lively discussion, but we are obliged for the Ukrainian people to take the decision and give Ukrainian citizens the right to move in visa-free mode throughout the territory of the European Union. On February 12, 2016, the President of Ukraine introduced a legislative initiative aimed at improving the principles and ensuring transparency in the organization of the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Under the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office functions as the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. However, the law does not provide transparency in the organization of activities. The International Monetary Fund also drew attention to the problem. In order to improve the legal framework for the organization of the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, to ensure transparency in the formation and activities of competition committees for the appointment of administrative posts and positions of prosecutors in this Prosecutor's Office and to implement the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund, the draft law provides in particular that members of the Competition Commission, who will organize and conduct a competition for the appointment of administrative posts of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, may be persons who have an impeccable business reputation, high professional and moral quality, public authority, as well as considerable experience in the field of prevention or anti-corruption. The chairman of the Competition Commission will be elected from among the members appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Attorney General of Ukraine will have the authority to appoint the head of the specialized anticorruption prosecutor’s office, his first deputy and deputy. The director of the Specialised Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office will appoint everyone to other administrative positions in the designated prosecutor’s office. In doing so, the competition commission will submit only one candidate for each position. The director of the Specialised Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office is given the right to hire and release her instead of agreeing with the officials of the Special Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office who are not prosecutors. The adoption of the law will enable the International Monetary Fund to implement recommendations and improve the legal principles of the organization, the activities of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, ensure transparency in the activities of competitive commissions for appointment in the Office of the Prosecutor. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u85	Please report. Head of the Committee, Andrew Kožemyakin
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement this morning, at 9 a.m., discussed draft Ukrainian Law No. 4055 amending Ukraine's Pro Prosecutor's Office Act to ensure transparency in the organization of the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office with a view to implementing the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes amendments to articles 8-1, 39 and 41 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, according to which: first, the Attorney General of Ukraine will appoint and relieve the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the First Deputy Director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Deputy Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Second, the director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office appoints and relieves the head of the Unit of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the deputy director of the Unit of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is granted the right to speak to you on his own. – hire and release SAP workers who are not prosecutors. By the way, that's exactly what it is. This is what was recommended in the sixth report of the European Commission, which we are constantly told about here by government officials. Article 8 also sets out requirements for members of a competitive commission, including individuals who have, among other things, experience in preventing and resisting corruption. The competition commission should be headed by a public and authoritative expert with extensive experience, interest or action to support the fight against corruption. It is proposed that a competition commission be recommended by one candidate. And notice, that's what's important and what's changed. The Competition Commission will recommend one, not three, candidates for the first deputy and deputy head of the SAP to the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, who will appoint them to the Attorney-General of Ukraine. The competition commission is now proposing three candidates for each of the appointed executive posts. The Attorney-General of Ukraine will have the right, by issuing a public letter to a competitive commission within 14 days of receiving the relevant proposals, to reject an appointment to an administrative office in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the requirements of legislation. This right may be exercised by the Attorney General no more than twice for each of the executive positions. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee at the time that we were given the opportunity, i.e. almost 1 hour 10 minutes, noted that the adoption of the bill would allow the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and ensure transparency in the organization of the activities of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And given the time of 1 10 minutes and what the International Monetary Fund recommends to us, for the report, the Sixth report of the European Commission of Experts, the Committee adopted a decision that is slightly different from the comments of the European Union representative in Ukraine, who today commented that the changes to this Procurator's Act are a little cautionary. But all the same, the committee decided to adopt this bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Please sign the factions. According to factions, groups are registered by law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! I hear you there, don't I? Dear colleagues, you imagine that this law has been passed in a triad of laws aimed in fact at a mechanism that violates the rights of citizens. And the second question of creation. What other prosecutor's office have we not established in the last three months? And all of this is directed at the anti-corruption agency and everything else. I think it's probably my subjective. The unbiased view that the Act on the change of machinery, the formation of prosecutorial structures to date is essentially worthless. We have, we have, we have the prosecutor's institutes that have to be put on the move. That's it. If we put only literal fastenings on the altar without the provision of a mechanism, this will not work. That is why I believe that this bill cannot be adopted either as a basis or as a first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Just as I was going to the rostrum, the honourable Head of Parliament invited me to say that all prosecutors should sell the Range Rover. I'm fully supportive. And not only the Range Rover sells, but the three-story houses sell both women and children's bills and the parents recorded sell. All those who have suffered insurmountable hardship will be transferred at least to the front. Now essentially the bill. The bill proposes to extend the rights of the Attorney General to appoint the director of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office and his deputies. Here the honourable colleagues referred to the European Union, the representative of the European Union, who demanded blood from the nose, these laws, and otherwise there would be no visa-free regime. I don't know if you were in school, but if you were in school, if you were in English, or if you were in English. I quote you from EU Ambassador Jan Tombinski's statement, direct language, honourable colleagues: "I am concerned about the amendments proposed in the Procurator's Act (4055), which threatens the independence of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, giving too much authority to the Attorney General." Mr Tombinsky's speech. Besides, since we're quoting, "no prophet in our own country," we're quoting our foreign partners, let's quote our respectable, no less respected ally, the Ambassador of the United States, Mr. Payett, who, yesterday after the resignation of Deputy Henprocuror Kasca, stated that this is a blow to reform and this is a boost in confidence in the anti-corruption efforts of the Ukrainian government. So I'm asking, dear colleagues, and those of the authorities who brought this. "Damn face," I'm asking you, why do you fool people. You're talking about reforms, you're talking about visa-free treatment, and you're just passing laws that eliminate the real independence of an anti-corruption prosecutor. And the same European Union you're referring to doesn't support that. I'll tell you what. You can adopt any laws, you can tell everything you want, but the key to the European Union, so that Ukrainians can be rich, so that Ukrainians have a decent salary, a decent pension, so that they can live not as beggars, so that they can come to Europe as tourists, but not as earners, looking for counterfeits, because they can't make money in their own home. And that's why you don't give us a headache and you don't take lying laws, but let's raise radical wages, citizens' income, their purchasing power, create jobs. That's when we don't have to go anywhere, because Europe will be in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u91	The Andriy Alexanderovich River, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Igor Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u93	Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The People's Front MPs will clearly support all the bills aimed at fulfilling the requirements and implementing the action plan for visa-free liberalisation. But if we're talking about this bill. I have in my hands the conclusions of the European Commission on this draft law. They generally welcome the initiative. But what do they emphasize? That this bill is operational, it further expands the discretionary powers of the Attorney-General, because it is unclear on what grounds the Attorney-General will be able to reject the nomination to be proposed by the nominee commission. So this initiative, as proposed, is expanding the discretionary powers of the Attorney General, and we will not be able to provide transparent selection for all positions in the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. In this connection, the People's Front MPs will vote in favour of this bill only on the basis. We cannot support this bill as a whole because there are no clear criteria on the basis of which the Attorney-General may reject any of the nominations proposed by the nomination commission. We believe that without detailing the relevant provisions of the bill, this bill will only make the existing regulation worse when assigned to anti-corruption bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u95	Thank you. "self-help" gives Romanova to Egor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u96	In this bill, all the meanness of working with the Ukrainian Parliament. Indeed, we had a great discussion in the summer that the anti-corruption prosecutor's office should be independent, first of all, of the Attorney General's Office. And we said that the task of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, in large accounts, was to arrest the Attorney General's office. And life has confirmed the correctness of those thoughts. Victor Shockin failed, faked, falsified the reform of the prosecutor's office, which they've been talking about for so long that it's about to happen. The procurator was transferred from one district to another, from that area to the third, and the third district to the first and called it the reform of the prosecutor’s office. Even the public prosecutor tried to change the prosecutor’s office, who tried to make it, indeed, the prosecutor’s office, the people brought there. What are we now offered? In terms of meeting the IMF requirements, I think Christine Lagarde would have died with shame if she had found out that, in the form of her argument, the Supreme Council is proposing to give Victor Shokin, the Attorney General, the right to reject twice the candidates for the post of anti-corruption prosecutor elected through the open competition. This means that we guarantee that the two strongest candidates will be precisely beaten by the Attorney General's decision. "self-help" will vote in favour of this bill exclusively if, on the very first reading, you have an engraving point that the Attorney General has the right to reject an appointment to an administrative office in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. This paragraph has to be completely deleted, and the President of Ukraine has to conduct a service investigation into who ordered him to sign such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word in this discussion, I'll say a few words. I'll tell you, the Ukrainian Parliament has done a very good job of electing a special prosecutor. We've created a commission here from public officials, from international experts. This bill, which we are currently considering, should have been designed to expand the power of the anti-corruption prosecutor. Unfortunately, at the time of preparation, there was a rule that had already been mentioned, where instead of extending the rights of a special anti-corruption prosecutor, these rights were limited by what Henprocuror has been authorized to reject the proposal of a commission composed of representatives, the President, the government. The logic was that they would give not two candidates, but the Henprocurator chose one, but instead that there would be one candidate, a standard that the Henprocuror has the right to reject. And today the European Union has given a very clear signal from that point of view. I have in my hands comments on the draft Law on the Attorney-General's Office of Migration and Internal Affairs of the European Commission, which states that such a rule extends the powers of the Attorney-General's Office, and they propose to delete a paragraph where the Attorney-General of Ukraine has the right to reject candidates by issuing a public letter to the competition commission. And they conclude, "We strongly recommend that the amendments to the Procuratorial Act should not be voted on without taking into account the comments mentioned above." Dear colleagues, we have to decide here today in the hall on that matter. Option one: delete that paragraph. Option two: A possible compromise with an exclusive list of laws that can be relied upon by the Henprocuror. These are options that we can now discuss before the final vote. It's Olena Schkrum, Fatherland. Then there's Yuri Lucenko. Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u98	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u99	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'd like to move a little bit from a political debate about the dependence or independence of the new anti-corruption prosecutor into a professional discussion. Look, you rightly said, Mr. Parpuy, that the only paragraph that causes a large number of objections both to Europeans and to the public is that the Attorney General has the right by issuing a public letter to the competitive commission to reject twice the nomination for appointment to the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. In fact, it is not prescribed on the basis of which he has the right to reject a person. Well, he doesn't like the best expert who's been picked, he rejects him. So what I'm proposing is either, in fact, support Self-Help and delete this paragraph; or write down the specific reasons why it will reject this candidature. On the basis, for example, of the fact that the candidature contradicts the laws on the cleansing of power, on the prevention of corruption, on the State secret, on a special one, there, for example, on the special public service on the criteria under which the person was selected. But we have to work on this thing and write that he can't do it on his own, on his own, on his own, depending on his opinion, just to reject this candidate. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u100	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! When the word "prosecutors" comes out, there are a number of prominent public figures in the room who only know the name Shockin. We don't write laws under specific names. Moreover, the profile committee should not fight Shokin, but rather fight to ensure that prosecutors receive not 2,000 dollars because no open competition succeeds. A normal person won't go to the authorities when a patrolman has 8,000 and a local prosecutor has two. But it doesn't matter to the profile committee. He's fighting Shockin. The profile committee doesn't care that NABU didn't get enough detectives to investigate all the cases. And that's why Parliament is devoting itself to the virtue of leaving the law of investigation behind again. I think we need to stop fighting names. In this connection, I propose, by agreeing with the President, to supplement the bill with a rule that caused concern here in the hall, by actually narrowing down the reasons why the Attorney-General may reject the candidacy, namely: if candidates do not meet the requirements of Ukraine's laws on clearance and prevention, as well as the requirements for admission to state secrecy in accordance with Ukraine's State Secret Act. I don't think any leader can assign his subordinate to any very independent commission if he's a corrupt, if he hasn't gone through the illustrations, and if he doesn't have access to the state secret, he's here to "gastrole" and tell us stories about fighting corruption. Please support this proposal and adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Are we further away from the faction? From factions. From the MPs three performances of three minutes. Please sign up. Alona Babak, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u103	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u104	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u105	Colleagues, I'm pointing out that the law already regulates this. Candidates can only be submitted by a competition commission after receiving a competitive confirmation on compliance with the requirements of the laws on "Requirement of Power", "On Prevention of Corruption" and "On Access to State Secret". It's already settled in the law. When we speak, and now the Henprocurorate has it checked, that means we give the Henprocurorate the right to say, and I don't think it meets the Anti-Corruption Act. And then go fight with his thought, with his willful decision. Who will do this? The Attorney General cannot determine whether he likes or dislikes a person who has been chosen for an open competition. It is precisely the idea of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, I repeat, independent of the Attorney-General's Office, that no powers of the Attorney-General may be granted. Self-help won't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u106	Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u107	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency district, Kiev, Dniprovsky district, non-factional Dear colleagues, I am very sorry to hear what is happening in the hall today. It is unfortunate, on the one hand, that all that has been done by Parliament in the past in anti-corruption policy, in anti-corruption legislation, has been consistently suffocated and consistently ruined by today's parliament. This is the third time we've come back to changing legislation on the settlement of special confiscation issues. This is the third time we've settled the issue of creating an asset recovery agency. Today we are back to the issue of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. You will recall that in May we were denied the possibility of appointing a Special Anticorruption Prosecutor as our own subjects. Today we even make sure that even this prosecutor is not to be determined by the results of an open competition. Understand what is happening. We've got fairies anyway. Now we choose not the best of the 3rd or better of the 20s, but the most comfortable of the 3s that we're offered. Now we're being asked to choose not the 3rd, but the 9th, twice rejecting the same, on unknown grounds twice the possibility of rejecting the Attorney General's best bid. We are told today that it is possible to remove that independent anti-corruption prosecutor on grounds that are not legally defined. That is, according to the decisions of the competition commission, the same competitive commission of the prosecution's qualification and commission. Imagine that we are ruining his independence at all. Moreover, if he had previously been able to recruit individuals to the prosecutor’s office, to the specialized prosecutor’s office of persons who are not prosecutors, he should do so today only by agreeing with the Attorney General. Please, this bill is controversial. There are very good rules that apply to qualified members of the competition commission, but it is very dangerous in the part where the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor is deprived of his independence. Moreover, I want to tell you that this law or bill does not meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. The requirements of the International Monetary Fund are simple and understandable. I can read them for you. Page 72 of the report of the Fund on progress in Ukraine in the creation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office reads: "The Competition Commission submits one candidate for each of three positions (head and two deputies) The Attorney General." This is an IMF requirement. And the second requirement of the IMF is this. The Procuratorship Act cannot make any other legislative changes regarding the procedure for the selection of the director of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and its deputies, other anti-corruption prosecutors and co-workers, except for the changes noted above, without the IMF's approval. I think that is what Ambassador Tombinsky said about anxiety today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u108	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u109	have not heard the IMF's demands on the need for such changes. I don't think this law in this part is acceptable. He needs to be sent to work on the subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u110	Romanova, Self-help. Captain, Olena Sotnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u111	Thank you. My colleagues, I suggest we go to work constructively, because we have an important issue about government. So, look, it's a simple proposition: part. Article 8 prim. We're cleaning out a paragraph that says, "The Attorney General of Ukraine has the right by issuing a public letter to renegotiate," we vote in the first reading. Colleagues with any other comments will be able to make corrections to the second reading, but that way we'll get three laws on the first reading that are necessary for visa-free liberalisation, and we'll just work. Colleagues, let's support the self-help proposal and vote in favour of this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u112	Vojtic Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u113	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. Colleagues, let's finish the water at the rate of silence, we'll adopt this law accordingly by deleting the third paragraph, and we'll move on to the government issue at last. Still taking advantage of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u114	Palamarchuk, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u116	Personally, I, dear Ukrainians, honorary colleagues, support the relevant bill. In no country in the world in the history of modern reform has there ever been or been without an iron arm to fight corruption without the iron arm of a reformer. Remember Ataturk, remember Roosevelt. Remember Adenauer, remember Lee Kuan Yu. Of course, laws are not written under specific names, they are written under a particular history of Ukraine. And the history of Ukraine today requires such order and dictatorship of reforms. Today, individual national MPs, so-called public figures, representatives of other movements, have started a hysteria, a liberal hysteria that seems like the state, the prosecutor's office, the new anti-corruption bodies that we create, will be in their pockets. It's a long time ago! It is time to shake up some 15 - year - olds who sit in their chairs for 20 years. It is time to go into the five, four - story houses of individual factions and see how radical fighters live for. Or radical supporters for the common people. It's a long time before we get into the home of the D.A. and the head of the D.A.S.A. It's a long time in the country to make arrangements. The country is facing a crossroads, either the political will of the Parliament, the President, the new Prime Minister, or it will not fight corruption. There is no other way in our country and there will be no other way. And it's enough to take time. Let us begin our consideration of the report of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers. People are waiting on the street. I take this opportunity to invite thousands of Ukrainians to come here. Today is the main day of this year, perhaps in the history of our country. Today either there will be a new history of the country, or the country will start rolling back. I invite millions, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians to come here and defend their right to a European country, to order in this country, to fight corruption, to dominate reforms. And today, to place a dot in the life of the mafia regime of today’s functioning government, to start forming a new government, and to give a new Ukraine the last step into the European family. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the law has been discussed. It's time to talk to the MPs. Please take your seats. Replica, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I now ask the attention of those who have commented on the impossibility of voting. Once again, I want to explain what the amendment is about. Yes, indeed, today's competition commission for the selection of a special prosecutor should check out candidates for corruption, illustrations and statesmanship. I suggest. Nevertheless, no one can guarantee that the commission will do so objectively. That's why the first filter against corrupters and ill-integrated people is on the board. Another filter. Henprosecutor on the same grounds and no other, I emphasize, none other. And it's not about three candidates. We meet the requirements of international organizations for this to be one candidate. Not two, not three, one candidate. And it will be tested in accordance with the Law on Combating Corruption and the Law on Illustration, and the Law on Statemaid and Commission, and in fact the man who.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u119	Go on, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u120	This compromise removes the possibility of being abused by Henprocuror in turn because it has only a narrow framework. This increases the quality of the prosecutor, and it gives him total independence, because he's elected by an independent commission, and there's one candidate, I emphasize, one candidate, not a few, like today. So, from my point of view, in terms of faction, this bill is worth supporting with regard to the correction of my sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is absolutely necessary to adopt this bill as a whole with this amendment, which has just been announced by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. All three laws are valid for both Ukraine and the visa-free regime. I'm hearing about the need to fight corruption. Then we need to implement an electronic declaration that we will be considering with you today, so that every official can register his property, which he has or is based on, then there will be an understanding of what to remove. If we're talking about an acquired asset in an unfair way, we have to remove it, and that's perfectly normal. All these decisions must be made by the Ukrainian Parliament. And along with that, we will receive the visa-free regime under the commitments that Ukraine has made. We simply fulfill our obligations in this covenant. So here's the deal. Now take your seats. Please, Your Honor, please come in and take your seats. Please take your seats. Take your seats, colleagues, let's get ready to vote, please. Faction leaders, please. Legally, the discussion has been concluded. Please. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Please take your seats, the discussion is over. Proposal, signal vote, 4055 draft law proposal by Yuri Lucenko on the basis and in general with amendments and technical legal rights that he has announced. 4055. Please 4055, as amended by Yuri Lucenka and by technical law. Vote, please. Vote. Ready? Please vote on the basis and in general as amended by Yuri Lucenko. Vote. I beg your pardon. Vote. [[12:12:27]] For-191 Now, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis. Based on the purpose of finalizing and making decisions on Thursday, February 18, as amended by the 12th hour of tomorrow. I would like to base my vote on this proposal. On the basis of that, please vote. Please vote. [[12:13:07]] For 236 A draft law was adopted on the basis of preparation. It wasn't a signal for Thursday's preparation and consideration. Colleagues, I'm now announcing a 30-minute recess, and I'd like to ask the distinguished factions and groups to rise to the third floor at the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u122	Good day again! We're continuing our work. The Council of Leaders of factions and groups of parliament has just concluded, where we agreed on voting approaches for the following draft laws. Please, everyone, please adjust to your work, Your Honor. And we'll start our work with the draft Law. Law 3755 on electronic declaration. Please, I'm asking all the national deputies to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Draft Law 3755 amending the Anti-Corruption Act. Please, colleagues, let's take our seats. Draft Act (registration number 3755) amending the Anti-Corruption Act. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Let's give the author a little bit more time for the report. Please, we're taking our seats. Let's do it, 3755, under a reduced procedure. Please support the offer. Colleagues, we have an hour to work on, let's concentrate. 3755 on short notice, please support everyone. We have four more laws to pass. 3755, please vote. Please support the consideration of the abbreviated. [[13:19:05]] For a hundred and Thank you, colleagues, the decision is supported. Please invite Wadim Denisenko, Ukrainian national deputy for the interview, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, after lengthy consultations, according to an agreement between the public, a number of political forces, the government, the President and our foreign partners, we would like to propose some changes to a number of laws that will allow us to introduce an electronic declaration. So what is proposed? I suggest, I'm asking you, under the transcript, what has been done by all of our political forces. So first, article 366 of the Criminal Code, paragraph 1, "declaring misinformation" is proposed to be deleted. Instead, an article of this content is proposed. 366.2 “Declaration of misinformation”. The submission by the declarant of information to the declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government is provided for by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act or the intentional failure of the entity to declare the declaration shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for up to two years without the right to hold certain posts or to engage in certain activities for a period of up to three years. Note: The subject of the declaration is persons who, in accordance with part one and part two of article 45 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, are obliged to submit a declaration to a person authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government. At the same time, article 366. 2 takes effect on January 1, 2017, and I would like to emphasize that. In the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, you remember that there were enough questions about the definition of family members. Thus, article 1 suggests that the definition of the terms “family members” should be worded in the following wording: family members, persons living together in a shared household have mutual rights and responsibilities, except those whose mutual rights and responsibilities do not have the character of family members, namely, those who are married, their children, including adults, parents, persons who are under the care/care of another person who is together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u125	Article 46, "Information indicated in the declaration." It is proposed that instead of the previous item, “Registration and actual residence”, write in the following wording: “registration registered”. So this is just a registered place of residence. Paragraph 3, "The price of moving property, which exceeds 50 minimum wages", is proposed in the wording: "The price of moving property exceeding 150 minimum wages." And we're still proposing to raise this plank because, well, we realize that with the current inflation of 50 minimum wages, this could be nothing at all by the end of the year. Note to this paragraph: “The action of this item extends to valuable movable property acquired after the day of the commencement of the system of submission and publication in accordance with this law of the declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government.” In paragraph 7, the second paragraph suggests that it should read: "This includes data on income type, source of income and its size, information on the gift is provided only if the value exceeds 150 minimum wages set for 1 January of the reporting year, and for gifts in the form of money, if the amount of such gifts received from one person exceeds 150 minimum wages per year, set for 1 January of the reporting year." Paragraph 8 proposes to amend the following: "No cash assets are to be declared, including cash, funds placed in bank accounts, contributions from credit unions and other non-bank financial institutions, funds lent to third parties, and assets in precious bank metals, whose total cost does not exceed 150 minimum wages set for 1 January of the reporting year." In paragraph 9, "About financial liabilities" is also proposed instead of 50 minimum wages to be converted into 150 minimum wages. Paragraph 10: "Expensions and all rights committed during the reporting period on the basis of which the subject of the declaration arises or ceases to own or use property, including joint property, immovable or movable property, intangible and other assets, and the financial liabilities set out in paragraph 2.9 of the first article. Such information shall be reported if the corresponding expenditure exceeds 150 minimum wages fixed on 1 January of the current year." Chapter 13 "The End Position" also deletes the phrase "but not before 1 January 2017." Instead, it is suggested that we put it in the next. in the following edition: "To establish that, in 2017, officials who are responsible and particularly responsible under article 50 of this Act are obliged to submit declarations of property, income, expenditure and financial obligations in accordance with this law within 60 calendar days of the date on which the system of submission and publication of the declaration of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local government is launched and published in accordance with this Act. The subject matter of the declaration is entitled not to indicate the value of property, assets, except in cases where such property is a source of income. ” I would like to point out that these positions are in fact aligned with the majority of the political forces in Parliament and I would like to point out that they are in agreement with both our international partners and a number of social organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u126	Please report, Andrew Kožemyakin. Oh, no. Yegor Sobolev. Egor Viktorovich, please. The account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u127	This is no way to approach the adoption of legislation. Andrew Denisenko's bill. Vadim Denisenko, who was looking at our committee, consisted of one word. That's the word, "from January 1, 2017, delete." I recall that word appearing during the adoption of the budget blindly, and in fact, in a single word for a year they carried the electronic declaration. Electronic declaration is nothing different from paper, except one: it can easily be accessed by all citizens on the Internet. And this is an important requirement of the entire public, supported by the international partners of Ukraine: to make the declaration of officials transparent. Especially high-level owners, which are in particular the direct recommendation of the International Monetary Fund. But what a colleague has read right now is a huge number of changes that, I understand, limit the number of relatives whose assets should be included in the employer's declaration, and put away for a few years criminal responsibility for the lie in the declarations. We now had a discussion during a break on the coalition council in the presence of the speaker. I said that as head of the Supreme Council Committee against Corruption, I refuse to vote for so many amendments to the vote on such an important subject. Let us adopt the law in the first reading, make a good working group with the public organizations, and make a final decision on Thursday. Otherwise, we will again miss some fraud, as was the case with those who voted in favour of the budget blindly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u128	Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we, the Fatherland faction, did not vote in favour of this shameful budget, and therefore, by understanding the error made with regard to the postponement of the declaration, we find it unacceptable. And that's why we're going to support this editorial that our colleague Denisenko reads in a voice right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u131	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, this is the law that we have promised people that will be accepted, that the declarations of officials, especially the highest-ranking officials, will become transparent. And an electronic declaration means that every citizen can easily, literally instantly get information about whether the official meets the high standards of his office, whether he is corrupt in his activity. Because this is immediately evident in these declarations. That's why the People's Front faction stood there and was behind the fact that the bill had to be adopted, especially given that it was on the list of Euro-integration. And the European Union is making this a requirement as part of the mandatory tasks that Ukraine has to perform on its way to high European standards, because integration without integration of standards has no meaning, no efficiency, no future. Therefore, we must vote in favour of the bill. That's what Europe requires, that's what Ukrainian citizens require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Victoria Vojticka, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u133	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u134	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u135	I want to repeat my position from the Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, this is no way to legislate. I ask the speaker to ask, if there are ten people in the room who understand what it says, that's a good result. It's about the declaration, about the disclosure of the officials' declarations. It's an important anti-corruption policy. Such laws cannot be adopted by a voice. From the little correction that was discussed on the committee, we have now heard a lot of ideas, some of which appear to be a huge step backwards. We're not crooks, we're parliamentarians, let's not look at it that way. In the first reading, we can adopt Law 3787, which is actually an alternative to that. Tomorrow, the working group is open to the public to discuss what needs to be done and to vote on Thursday. It's not a Parliament that's happening right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u136	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we have forgotten that there is a war going on in the country, that the Bolotava deputies are wandering in our Ukrainian territory, and no one is following them. What European integration, what laws, who's waiting for us there? What, separatists will quietly go to Europe with Ukrainian passports and the police will kill civilians? Everyone says, especially from the Change Front, about high-level employees, but we've forgotten thousands, tens of thousands of people, ordinary people, who will be in executive power, who can quietly, quietly take, then with the minimum wage that they get in a half-thousands of dollars, take the same teacher who is in executive power, who earns an extra job, and then "keep it on the hook." You've forgotten about these people. This law needs to be redrafted, returned to the committee and further elaborated. That's all I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for a moment. In fact, today’s work is carefully observed not only in Kiev but also in many European capitals, primarily in Brussels. And if we finish our work day today without any positive signals, and unfortunately, so far we haven't given a positive signal to Europe. This means that in this way they will form their position on Thursday in order to present it to the European Parliament on Friday. We don't have Thursday, guys! It is no longer clear to us that with two other laws, today we have the last chance to adopt this law. This editorial, which has been resounded, is not the author's editorial, it's an editorial that agrees with the Ministry of Justice, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with our European partners, with the vast majority of the factions of Parliament. Guys, let's vote. This is really the option that is acceptable to all sides and that allows you to run the system and properly correct the law that many, including still fears. We don't have any other options. Let's at least demonstrate something positive today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, let's go in and take our seats. Now is the moment when we have to pass the very right law. Including the corrections that have been made, I think, are entirely those that meet the criteria and are consistent with the outcome of the meeting. You have to renew the electronic declaration, you don't have to be afraid of it, and everything is now done according to the realities that are today. So, colleagues, please, I urge everyone to work properly and to adopt these decisions. Parliament has made this mistake, it must be corrected. So please prepare for the vote. Ready? Colleagues, 3755-d (deputy prepared). 3755, as amended by Vadim Denisenko. Signal voting as a basis and as a whole. I ask everyone to support this, this is the moment of truth, to support the introduction of electronic declaration. Please, all of you, Your Honor, back up. Ready? Ready? 3755, based and generally amended by Wadim Denisenko, technical and legal rights. Please support all colleagues, all factions please support. Please support me. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. This is an important decision. [[13:35:34]] For 233 And now we're voting real. Vote. Finally, we vote on my proposal, we vote. It was a rating. With Denisenko's amendments according to my proposal, technical law. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support everyone. [[13:35:53]] For 238. The law was passed according to the proposal I made under the transcript. I welcome everyone, my dear colleagues, to the entire Electronic Declaration Act with the proposals of Wadim Denisenko and the technical and legal rights of the committee. Let's move on! Let's move on. 3501: Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to harmonise legislation in the field of prevention and non-discrimination with European Union law). National Deputy Gerashchenko, summary procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. Thank you all for supporting the renewal of the electronic declaration. Thank you, colleagues. [[13:36:41]] For-167 The decision has been made. Please report to Irina Heratchenko. It's a fast law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u141	My fellow Members, the bill I am about to present belongs to the author of a large group of deputies representing two parliamentary committees: this is the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We developed it from the evaluation mission of the European Commission, which worked in Ukraine in September 2015 and made recommendations on the need to implement the second phase of the visa liberalisation plan in our commitments to protect human rights and combat discrimination. And the purpose of this law is to improve anti-discrimination legislation and to humanize this legislation. We propose to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code, remove criminal responsibility for articles relating to discrimination, and reinforce administrative responsibility, which will actually help to make these cases, which today are very formal cases of discrimination before the courts, they have found their case there, and the perpetrators have serious administrative responsibility. This is also the case with such a European practice of humanizing our legislation. And it is also very important that we propose to extend and clarify the mandate of the Human Rights Council of the Commissioner for Human Rights to comply with European standards. His demands, more faithfully, for the elimination of violations of discrimination. And we also propose to clarify certain legal norms and introduce certain new legal terms that correspond to European practices before this legislation. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u142	Thank you. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira, co-report. Colleagues, I think we can vote this law after the committee head's co-report. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, there are two reasons why this bill should be supported. The first reason is Ukraine’s commitment under the Association Agreement with the European Union. The second reason, and so far even more relevant in terms of the calendar plan, is the Recommendations on Implementation of the Plan of Action from a visa-free regime. Two things that Irina Heratschenko has turned out to be, I want to emphasize again. This law humanizes our legislation, it introduces administrative responsibility instead of criminal responsibility, as it is now. And secondly, it extends the mandate of the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, which must act in accordance with this law. Therefore, the Human Rights Committee unanimously supports this law and recommends that it be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u144	Thank you. My colleagues, I have an offer, I hear you, I think. Corresponding to the report and the co-report of the committee's head, 3501, on a basis. Let's vote on the basis of 3501. Please, colleagues. Come on, colleagues, 3501 on the ground. Please, one minute, the Yelensky National Deputy, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we support the humanization of Ukrainian legislation and its requirements. to the requirements of European legislation. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the principles of non-discrimination in this case run counter to principles that are fundamental principles of freedom of conscience. I propose that all these changes that discriminate to the real. No discrimination, no discrimination, was eliminated when reading. On second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u146	It's a perfectly reasonable offer, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. 3501 on the ground. Ready to vote? Please be supportive. 3501 on a base, please support. Vote please, fellows! An important law. You heard the report by Irina Heratchenko, co-reported by Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri. Please, colleagues, on the basis of your support. Please support, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support me. All in favor. [[13:42:23]] For 231 The law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws (for clarification of certain provisions). Second reading. Andrew Ivanchuk. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 2319d, second reading, is being submitted to your consideration. But I'd like to remind you a little bit of the history of the bill. We voted several times, and we, all the factions, have decided to draft a bill that will be finalized and will take into account the opinions of all the factions. And we introduced this bill. True, he was accepted only in the first reading. A few amendments were made to the second reading, and most of them were taken into account by the committee. So you're asked to vote for the bill and accept it in a second reading and in general, in the right column. Then let's go, Andry Volodymyrovich. Oh, I'm sorry, Vladimir Borisovich, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u148	Please, as amended, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u149	1 amendment of the People's Deputies of Denisenko, accounted for. 2 amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u150	People's MP Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u151	I would like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u152	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, actually, the 2nd amendment is completely out of the question. And that's why I'd like to insist on her. And the question is this. If you insist now during the war, during the economic crisis to sell to the right and to the left profit and strategic state enterprises, then at least write down the amendment in this law, just like you do for the citizens of the aggressor state, you write down the amendment that I propose so that they can't buy: officials, people who are close to officials, any people who are approaching, in fact, to power. Accordingly, my amendment is that, in addition to prohibiting the privatization of aggressor-related entities, it also prohibits the privatization of entities that are subject to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and also to close individuals of such entities. Show in this way that it's not you who want to shred the state property, but what you really want to get for it is a fair price. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u153	Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u154	I support the author. Indeed, it is in time. But I would like to tell the People's Deputy Levchenko that the State Property Fund has no such authority to verify the ownership of persons who are subject to the Anti-Corruption Act, i.e. close individuals of the listed subjects. And in the committee's view, why did we consider your amendment in part, because it would be very slow to privatize. But I think we can write this down and make this change for further privatization. Thank you. Please, the National MP insisted on counting. Well, to confirm the amendment. But if she doesn't, she should be part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u155	Please support the amendment that was rejected by the committee, Yuri Lewchenk. Please determine by vote. This is an amendment that is not supported by a committee. partially supported by Yuri Lewchenk. [[13:46:30.]] For-86 Not counted. Let's move on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u156	3 Amendment, People’s Deputy Petovka, also included in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u157	Come on, please. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u158	No, no, no. Dear Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, at the end of the 3rd amendment, we have just consulted with scientific and legal administration of ours, and we need to complete the following term, and I will read it under the transcript, at the end of the third amendment: "The term is controlled" is used in the meaning of "control" in the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. The term “end-of-life beneficial owner” is used in the meaning stated in the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization, on Money Laundering, on Crime, on Financing Terrorism and on Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction. The term "related persons" is used in the meaning given in the Ukrainian Tax Code. It's purely technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u159	Thank you. That's a 4-a, yeah, was it a repair?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u160	That was the end of the 3rd, now the 4th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u161	End of 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u163	Please, 4 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u164	The 4th Amendment, the People’s Deputy of Petovka, is also included in part. And in the right column on page 5, in the first paragraph, it says, "Responsibility for authenticity, fullness of the document.", - also the legal administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is proposed after the word "document" is made out in the following edition: "The responsibility for the authenticity, completeness of the document and the obligation to prove the absence of the signs provided for in part three of this article rests with the buyer." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u166	Thank you. The 5th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk was rejected. People's MP, give Mr. Levchenk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u167	Yuri Lewchenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u168	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. In this bill, you're proposing not only to simplify the privatisation process or, in fact, to speed up the waste of state property, but you're also proposing to introduce another money-laundering mechanism through privatization, it's a so-called councilors' institute. Well, what a totally uncontrollable institution would be, there would be completely left-wing people paying millions of dollars for missing services. So I suggest in my amendment that you at least prescribe any criteria for these counselors. Well, there's something. For example, let the counselor choose the results of an open competition, not as in the first version of your project, where it's just a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. In order for this counselor to have at least five years of experience working in international organizations. So that at least two foreign languages would know, because I don't know what he might advise on privatizing to Western investors if he doesn't even know foreign languages. Yeah? So I'm going to suggest, however, that there be any criteria for this not to be another mechanism for the withdrawal of money from the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u169	Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u170	Mr. Levchenko, we have rejected your amendment to the committee for one simple reason. When you say that counsellors should speak Ukrainian and two foreign languages, you have not considered one thing that counseling can be a legal person, and we cannot demand the legal person to speak in languages, so we have rejected it. But then what you said was for the people's MP to amend it. People. Ladies and gentlemen, the Birdman. Thank you. Number 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u171	Number six, repair. And please, the 5th amendment is not considered by the committee. She urged Yuri Lewchenko, and she was rejected. Please identify yourself, colleagues. Fifth. [[13:50:41]] For 111 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. 6th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u172	6th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Birds. Equipped with refinements. The author asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u173	Please, Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment that has been taken into account, has just suggested determining the criteria that will be set for counselors. But at the same time, I would like to announce the agreement that was made by the committee of speakers regarding who cannot be the person of counsellors. And to remind you, Andrija Volodymyrovich, you promised to do that under the transcript, because it's not in the amendment table. And, in particular, I propose to add to the committee's editorial that the advisor cannot be a natural person, an aggressor citizen or a legal person, the final beneficiary of which is a person with the nationality of an aggressor country. I think it's perfectly fair when we can't involve investors from an aggressor country, and so we don't need advisers from an aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u176	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we have supported the committee because it is a mirror reflection of the requirements for those who have the right to participate in privatization. We'll prescribe the same, with your permission, that counsellors, if they have final beneficiaries from the aggressor country, they don't have the right to accept either. That's a very good point, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, let's move on. 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u178	7 Amendment of People’s Deputy Levchenk, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u179	Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u180	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. This bill is generally trying to take away or not the last precaution for total privatization in the country, to take the requirement to. This is the main goal of this project, to take the requirement to 5-10 percent of the previous listing of the relevant stock exchange enterprise. I realize that the Ukrainian Stock Exchange is not working very much today, and that's why it's essentially a threat to such a violent privatization. But if you say it's a very small package, if it's not worth anything, then in answer to that argument, I propose this amendment. You don't want 5-10 percent that's worthless, there's no questions, let's offer 25 percent of a package that's just worth, because at some point it's playing with a blocker in some cases. And your argument that no one would be interested in the package is completely gone. So I'm still asking you to leave this test price rule and leave 25 percent, not 5-10, as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u181	Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the distinguished Lord of the People's Deputies, Levchenko! Your observation may well be appropriate and worthy of consideration in this room. But we rejected your amendment because it contradicts the concept of first reading of the bill, that's why. But we're saying that this is an open discussion, and why not? Therefore, in view of its contradiction with the concept, we rejected it, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u183	Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u184	No, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u185	Please, 7 revisions, be sure. Declined by the committee. 7th, Levchenko, rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[13:54:24]] For-98 8 revisions. Don't you insist? 8th, 9th, 10th. Maybe you'll have three reports right away? Please 8 amendments, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u186	Thank you. It's a similar logic to what we just talked about. When you proposed this project, you say that Ukrainian stock markets don't work. One question was the size of a packet. We just said that. Unfortunately, the hall refused, yes. But there is also a question of the stock market itself. Okay, the Ukrainian Stock Exchange doesn't work, but the real-price mechanism on the stock market itself is the right economic mechanism. It is, by the way, established in many developed countries. If you say the Ukrainian Stock Exchange doesn't work, there's no question. Let's make it possible to release test packets on foreign markets, foreign exchanges, and so check the real price. Especially when it comes to big businesses that you want here, under this law, to open the way for their privatization. So it's my amendment to allow you to test price through foreign markets, actually. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk, one minute. 8 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u188	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs, distinguished national MP Lechchenko! Again, I will say that your amendment is very correct, and it deserves attention. But when we give up the previous sale at all, it goes against the concept of first reading. I support the need not only on Ukrainian markets but also on foreign markets, but in this bill it is not correlated. Thus, the amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u189	Thank you. 8 revisions. Are you insisting? Please vote. 8th, rejected by the committee, Lechchenko. [[13:56:22]] For the 180. 107 votes, no vote for the amendment. 9th Lechchenka repair. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u190	Thank you. Well, these are my last two amendments, in fact, they're repeating what was before, what was already rejected. So I'm just going to use this moment to do some summation for the Ukrainian people. What's happening in this room right now is trying to completely allow the government today during the war, during the economic crisis, absolutely uncontrollable, absolutely without any economic ground to sell strategic revenue to state-owned enterprises. Unfortunately, we see that the majority in the hall, the coalition, it supports it. I think the Ukrainian people will give you an assessment sooner or later. So you're going to get into this, when, on the one hand, you're completely destroying all of the social benefits, you're saying, on the one hand, that there's no money in the state, and on the other hand, you're doing everything you can to quickly, without any prior verification mechanisms, to sell profits to businesses. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u191	9th you insist, correct? Please reject the 9th Amendment Committee, Yuri Lechchenko. Identify yourself. The 9th amendment rejected by the committee, Yuri Lewchenko. [[13:57:48]] For-100 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 10 revisions. Is Yuri Lewchenko insisting? Don't insist. 11th Amendment. Don't insist. 12th? Don't insist. I can't see. Don't insist. I can't see. He insists. Victoria Birds, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, an editorial that is proposed for voting, predicts that the payment of the services of advisers will be made either by the state budget or by international organizations, or by other sources that are not prohibited by law. On the committee, since my amendment was not taken into account by the committee, I suggested that I replace these other unprohibited by the legislation of the source and clearly state what is meant by it in order for the counselor to not actually work for the future winner, knowing that he would receive a percentage of the object of privatization. So I'm now asking Mr. Billows to sound, however, what is meant by these "other unbanned sources of legislation." And the committee just decided to accept the committee's editing and this was our second actual amendment, which the committee is going to write after this is done under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u193	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Billows, please, is the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u194	The main sources we have are both budget and donor. What does "other sources" mean? Sometimes there is a situation where a buyer pays the counselor. And it's for these people. I'm sorry, technically. So two different sources: budget and donors. There are times when customers themselves pay for these services, including on the electronic side. Well, I don't insist on that, we can take that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u195	Thank you. Colleagues, come on, the 12th amendment is rejected by the committee. Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I address Mrs. Kugel. Mrs. Kugel, Alexandra Volodymyrna, I'm here to see you. This rule is very broad, among other things, not prohibited by the law of sources. Ms. Victoria Ptashnik, she says: "Let's, when we prepare a bill for the signature of the Head of Parliament, with scientific and expert management and with legal administration, prescribe the right sources." We'll do it according to the legislation in force. If you have any suggestions, I'm willing to sound it under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u197	Please, Alexandra Kugel, a replica. Colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Andrey, I want us to hear it again. There could be only two sources of funding -- the state budget and donor organizations. Period. God forbid you should keep writing down the buyer - what you're saying. Then we will not vote with all the faction for this bill. Only two sources: donor organizations and the state budget. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u199	Okay. I got it. I confirm, we'll write a complete list.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Do you insist, 12th? Don't insist. Let's move on. 13 amendments. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 16th. 15 amendments. 15th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. Honorable colleagues, important law, second reading in general. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. 2319a from the draft of the Law in second reading and in general with the amendments that were heard under the transcript, Andrew Ivanchuk, with technical and legal rights in second reading and in general. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Vote? Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote in general. Ready? We're voting in general. Please support this bill of 2319a-d with technical law and amendments announced by Andri Ivanchuk from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote. We vote in favour. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:03:19]] For 252 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 3700: draft Law. I went on for 15 minutes, went on for 15 minutes. 3700, let's finish this law and move on. Please, draft Law 3,700 on short notice, please support. Short-term procedure, voting. Please support 3,700 on a reduced procedure. [[14:03:54]] For a hundred and Please, Oleg Lazko. At 2:15, I continued my work until 14:15. But when considering the law, it is not possible to close the proceedings. So please, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies of Ukraine (for the exclusion of candidates from the Ukrainian People's Deputies from the electoral list of parties in the multi-mandatory district). Some of our colleagues baptized this law with a party dictatorship. Yes, it is a dictatorship against those who betray voters. It is a dictatorship against those who trade in conscience. This is a dictatorship about those who forget their pre-election programs before and after the elections trading mandates and conscience against Ukrainian citizens. A harmonized text of the bill is proposed to be drafted as follows: The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: in the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies" 2012 the Supreme Council of Ukraine will make such changes. First. Article 61 adds part of the ninth sentence: “Ninety. In the case of a party's decision, as provided for in part three of article 105 of this law concerning a candidate to be elected before a decision is taken by the Central Election Commission to recognize him as elected, the Central Election Commission shall decide on the exclusion of the candidate from the electoral list. The other one. Article 105 adds to part three of the following point: "Third. A party that has nominated candidates for the election list, which has participated in the distribution of parliamentary mandates, may decide to exclude a candidate from the MP who, in the light of the results of the elections under section 10 of Article 98 of this Act, is deemed not to have been selected from its electoral list at any time after the day of the election before the Central Commission's decision to recognise him as elected. Such a decision is made in accordance with the party’s statute by the convention. "
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u202	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u203	"...a meeting, a meeting, a party conference. The withdrawal from the minutes of the assembly, the congregations, the conference signed by the chairman, and the decision signed by the chairman and sealed by the seal of the party, no later than the fifth day from the date of the decision, are transmitted to the Central Election Commission. On the basis of these documents, the Central Election Commission shall, no later than the fifth day following their receipt, decide to exclude a candidate from the electoral list. The other one. "Finally and transient positions." First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The other one. The Central Electoral Commission will bring its normative acts into line with this law. Third. The act of this law is extended to electoral lists of Ukrainian national MPs from political parties, who were the subject of the electoral process in the extra-election elections of Ukraine's national deputies on October 26, 2014. Period! Last thing I want to say. Dear fellow national MPs, one moment of attention! Many in Parliament are concerned that this law applies to national MPs. No, this law does not apply to elected national MPs, it does not apply to you, it does not apply to any national MPs in the future. This law applies only from the moment the Central Election Commission decided to register. So people's deputies have already been elected, and this law only applies to candidates in the national parliaments, not to active national MPs. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. You don't need a committee report, do you? Okay. Please two for, two against, and we're working. Guilty, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u205	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u206	Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev To avoid innuendo, I will speak for myself and only for myself. But I cannot remain silent in a situation where we are trying to make such a key and decisive mistake through the decision of Parliament. Well, friends, well, you can't look at the election results in a year, well, you can't, well, it's a violation of the electoral process at all. [[Applause]] Well, if you want, then let's poison this system. If we grant the assembly the right to throw away the members of the list, then give the assembly the right to recruit new ones, to replace them. Let the assembly meet, fill a new list, and then this person becomes a deputy. Friends, people voted for the list as a whole. No one, when they voted, knew how many people would be given a mandate. You can't take it and figure out that this part is more legitimate than the others, and you can't do it by election in a year. Colleagues, come on, let's know the limit. I know it's necessary, I understand everything, but there's a limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u209	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable national MPs and Ukrainian society, this law has been enforced for many weeks and is unforgivable. What was the main problem with this law? The main problem with this law is that, in its original form, it allowed the party’s assembly to exclude candidates for elected but not yet sworn in. Therefore, the principle of an amendment that must be included in this draft law is that a party can be convened only after an oath has been made by the deputies who have been elected to the next or subsequent election. If this amendment is supported, then I don't see any problem with the "Fatherland" faction voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, Capplin, Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u211	It's actually a simple and necessary bill that we finally have to adopt. There must be discipline and order in this country at last. and only under these conditions, when there is appropriate flexibility in the work of Parliament, in the functioning of factions, parties in Parliament, when there is responsibility and willingness to carry for each letter in its electoral pamphlets before the electorate, only under this condition can the country become on a constant track of reforms and changes. But, at the same time, we should at least hear those national MPs who have a separate position. I'd like to name their names and have you, Mr. Head, give them the right to speak. This is Mr. Muschak, this is Birddog, this is Mustafa Najem, this is Lechchenko, Chumak. We live in a democratic society, we build a totally democratic parliament, and we must do everything in our responsibility to ensure that there is order in Parliament, but to achieve that order we must, when we hear each other, hear each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please comply with the requirements of the Rules and grant the right to reply to all the deputies that I have listed. Let's not turn the work of the Supreme Council and the Rules into garbage, let's make such important, responsible decisions based solely on the law, based on the Constitution, based on the Rules. This decision is necessary, we will vote it accurately, but only on democratic principles. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u212	I've heard "everybody" before. Don't you remember where that came from? [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't hear. He was just sick on the head and he had it. [[B in m in s a l in]] A closing word? A replica? [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop, stop, stop. Stop! Stop. [[B in m in s a l in]] No one was offended. All right, Alexi Muschak, one minute. Replica, please. Please, one minute, and I'll vote. Please give me a minute and we'll vote. Take your seats, dear fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! Thank you for being able to follow the Rules and speak out. If Mr. Bogdan is next in the "Peter Prashenka Block" and, for example, "The Fatherland" number 30 is also Mr. Bogdan, there is no need for a completely legislative change because of two Bogdans. Wait! I'm entitled to a replica. You will. That's why we don't have to change the whole legislation. This time. The other one. The position should be one — only the electorate of Ukraine, only the citizen of Ukraine, and not the party gatherings can change the list. This is the second position. And position number three. Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! You'll have the right to a replica. And position number three. We're responsible for the extended responsibility of Ukrainian politicians, which doesn't start after the election, but it starts before the election and the pyjamas when the list is drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u214	Thank you. The author’s closing remarks. Oleg Lazko. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u215	In accordance with the Rules, it is not "conclusion" but "conclusion" of the author of the legislative initiative! I want to speak to Ukrainian citizens. Why is there such a heated discussion in this room? Because we finally asked the question of the responsibility of the political forces to the electorate. Because when an honourable colleague comes out and tells us that a year after the election, we can't change the election lists and rule out candidates, and I ask another question: and if a candidate standing, a year after the election was sold, went into another political power, didn't follow the principles he was going with a year ago, how could he come in here and become a carcass? This law makes it possible to avoid beatings; it allows for political responses to the electorate. Please back up!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u216	He's asking for a very reply from Mustafa Najam, one minute. All of it. Colleagues, that's all. Mustafa Najem, one minute. One minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, yesterday we had our faction meeting, and we were told openly that this is a personal blackmail by Mr. Lashko, on the part of "The Fatherland," on the part of our colleagues from Self-Help, who demand that this law be passed, and this is a trade in this room. And now I'm going to say, look who wants the law the most. Those who talk about selling places on lists are those who sell places on lists. This is Mr. Lazko, who has a list of corrupts who have other corrupts on the lists, and we've seen them in this room, and that's what they want. But that's no reason for us to set up a dictatorship here, because these guys were unconscionably selling seats in the elections. Don't do this, it's a historic moment!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, there was a lineup, one more minute. Let's finish this discussion. I was at this meeting yesterday, by the way, I didn't hear anything like it, maybe something else. Colleagues. Ready to vote? 3700 on the basis and in general, please identify yourself by voting with the amendment to Krulk and the announced amendment to Oleg's waiting room under the transcript, with technical legal rights. Krulko, Baby, with technical law. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I said. Vote? Please vote, Your Honor, we vote. Vote. [[14:17:40]] For 207 It's not a decision, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. On this one, on this note. The law is not approved. On this note, we conclude the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the morning. At 4: 00 p.m., there will be an evening session to discuss the government report. Thank you, Your Honor.
