ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine please register. 325 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today, in a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are taking the lead with Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Welcome, colleagues, welcome to our government. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Ukrainian Rules of the Supreme Council, an "hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. To answer oral and written questions from MPs and groups, up to 30 minutes are involved. Today, in connection with the beginning of the academic year, we have arranged to have a speech before the Supreme Council with the Minister of Education and Science, Lilia Greenevich, and Minister of Agrarian Politics, Taras Viktorovich Kutovov. And I invite you to the rostrum, and I invite you to speak to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailnovna Grinevich. Are you gonna be out of town or out of the rostrum? Greenevich is the first. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, unlock the gate for Lily Greenevich. Colleagues, I don't think the hall will deny it if we give another sequence if there's the first Taras Viktorovich Kutovov. Colleagues, a presentation was technically prepared to begin with by the Minister of Agrarian Politics. I don't think there will be any objections in the hall and I invite you to the words of Taras Viktorovich Kutovov, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. Please, Taras Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u2	Good morning. Good morning, dear colleagues. It's a pleasure to see all of you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, intercessors, Vladimir Borisovich, colleagues. Today I'd like to make a presentation on the first part of the season, as we'll speak. I'd like the first slide to be shown to my distinguished colleagues. First slide, please turn on. Thank you. With regard to the early grains and in fact today, the conversation will deal with more technical issues, not strategy issues, but real achievements. And I would like to thank all of our agrarians for the fact that the season that we are now, part of this season has already passed, and it is quite successful. It can be said that the results are increasing to the previous year. Of course, thanks should also be given to agrarians, but the weather, weather, and agrarianism have played a major role this year, and the Lord has helped the agrarians today to receive 38 million tons of early grains and grains. A fertility leader in Ukraine was the Winnitz region. The average area is 54.9 centimetres per hectare. The largest grain shaft in the early Odessa region is 3.8 million tons. In this section, in general, the average in Ukraine is 40 centrifuges, even less than 39.8 centrifuges. Why I say and why this figure is important. What if we were to have an average in Ukraine, and that's absolutely possible, and we were to get to a higher level in the area today in Ukraine, we'd have about 23-25 percent of the extra shaft in grain, which is going to be an extra 8-9 million tons in absolute numbers. Of course, it is not dogma. And it's very important how much you make in this shaft, and we're going to talk about it separately today, but the Vale itself, of course, is just as big. And what's important to say is that you know that the Ministry has focused its attention on small and medium-sized producers, but it's absolutely fair to say that the essential part of this is, of course, large enterprises do. Next slide, please. A little bit of numbers. No, please, the previous one in terms of areas, Winnicka, Hmelnicka, I just wanted to read the numbers, you've seen them. Then don't come back. As far as price parameters are concerned. There's no comfort in this. You know what happens in the commodity market is falling. Unfortunately, no positive additional trends have taken place this year. Last year, you can see that the wheat figures were in different areas of 220, 192, 203 dollars. This same year we have 180, 181, 154. The same corn situation is $147 compared to 174 the previous year. 153 versus 169 — barley. And it's almost a stable situation. It's important in the context of what I said is important, how much we earn. Of course, the Lord helped to gather more crops, but the price position, unfortunately, is inconsolable, so those gains that we get in terms of the bull, I think we're going to lose in the money at the expense of the price drop. What's very important is the next slide, please, in the context of not only a colleague of national MPs, but also in the context of Ukrainian citizens, we always have a sensitive question of Greek. What I'm saying is, with regard to agrarians, we've done our job of securing the market this year in excess of expectations. The supply of grain in Greek is expected at 188 000 tonnes, production of 174 transitional residues - 14, demand for use - 166. The expected balance at the end of the marketing year is 22,000 tons. I mean, I want to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens, there is no fundamental basis for price increases, except for some non-agrarian market. In Ukraine, Greeks are more than enough to provide for domestic needs. So everything that's going on with the price range, and here I'm asking you to look at the next slide, you see peaks in midsummer, usually when people are doing some kind of stock, the price is now playing almost 24 percent back, which shows that even with all the macro-economic rates in existence, the rate and inflation in terms of the bracelet, the price is going down, and once again it's confirmed that there's no premeditation in the context of production to increase the price of Greek. Next slide, please. As for the 2016 Gross Assembly in Ukraine. You can see on this slide the numbers of the areas, these are the leader areas. Of course, I'll do it again, and the weather has helped, but thanks again for the agrarians. It's an important number. We often hear about this, every year, but this year's really gross grain harvest in 2016 is a record gross crop collection for all years of independence in Ukraine. The growth from the previous year is plus 2 million, the total figure we're predicting is 62.3 million tons, but according to estimates of different associations, this figure could be significantly higher. As for the material and technical provision of autumn-field jobs, the next slide, please. Well, the numbers I'm not going to comment on, they say, but the security about the fuel already purchased is about 50 percent, the average price, if you look at the diesel, is 12 percent higher than the previous year for petrol, even one percent lower than the previous year. As far as financial lending is concerned, it's a collection of autumn-field jobs. The actual cost of the company is the next slide – slightly over 40 million dollars, 37 million dollars and 3.7 million dollars of credit. That's 40 percent of the planned need. What I think is very important is that we have 86 percent of all registered agrarian enterprises in Ukraine -- companies that have fewer than 500 hectares in their processing -- and only two percent of them get credit. The main reason for this is that there is no mortgage, there is no own negotiable funds to ensure that the own contribution to which the credit component will be added accordingly. In this regard, you know, the government has decided and supported the ministry’s initiative to channel one percent of the gross agricultural production in Ukraine to support agriculture. It was literally this morning that we had a meeting with the first vice-premier and with associations where we were discussing directly the mechanisms and programs that could be implemented to support the very small middle-sized farmers. I think we're going to come up with a one-hectare support formula to support the very farmers who support the animals that support the new cultures that invest their money in Ukrainian machine manufacturing. Which is also important in the context of taxation, I want to say here. If export VAT among grains actually balanced the situation within the State, the situation in animal farming is negative until now, and the abolition of animal safety guards will have very negative consequences. So in the government today, we're looking at different ways in which we can make up for all these losses to agrarians and, including talking about animal-friendly issues, how and what numbers we're actually going to have next year. So believe me, it's for discussion literally every day in the government and in the ministry. Next slide, please, about export potential. We have agrarians very often say that the harvest is not in the field but in the chamber. I'd rephrase that phrase a little bit and say that it's not in the box, it's in the chamber, it's in the compartment, it's in the panamax. A very sensitive question today is the question of logistics in order to bring this successful crop to Ukrainian ports this year. You know the initiatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure are right, the initiatives in the context of saving Ukrainian roads, the reduction of axle loads by road, but, at the same time, today there are questions in the agrarians with the implementation of the Ukrainian Railway, the possibilities of transmuting this seed to the ports. And this situation can be critical in the context of implementing all our export plans. So we're in the government the same way, I've raised this question, and today we're going to be very actively feeding on this position, because I already see some negative indicators in the ministry today on the delivery of new crops to ports. But the figures are comforting, almost 40 million export potential for wheat, 15.6 million tons of wheat, 8.6 million of which are food. Generally speaking, this year's crop structure is 55 percent of the wheat harvest this year is food wheat. Thank you for your attention. I just want to say a few things, because I still have a little bit of time left. They're prepared very, very, very good drafts for my duka, which will be under consideration by the Supreme Council. The branch, indeed, needs their support, and the branch needs support as such, its own support. The issue of taxation, the question of the new structure at all and the reform of the sector are urgent today. I understand that the agricultural sector is perhaps not a high-tech sector, and in terms of value added, it may not be able to provide income such as space, perhaps a branch, a defence branch. But with that powerful potential, perhaps one of the first areas of the most powerful in Ukraine, all the money that is in this area today needs to be channelled to stabilize the position there, it will allow for the development of machinery in agriculture, because moral and physical weariness today in the field is catastrophic. 80 percent of all technology that is and works in Ukrainian fields today is morally and physically outdated. And that's the potential for Ukrainian production. I think we should use it. In addition, we have to provide the same scientific expertise in agriculture as in seed production. There are some unpleasant facts that I can say today: only 3 percent of the seeds of sugar beet in Ukraine are Ukrainian seeds; all the other seeds are already the seeds of foreign producers. I think we need to change this situation, we've already held a few meetings at the Ministry and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. And those powers that are today, including land, at the academy, should be used to build this potential, not for the normal economic activity that is often carried out there. I thank you all for your attention. I ask your support in those initiatives that will appear in this room from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Ministry. I understand how difficult the political season is today, but I very much believe that for agrarians, for agrarian initiatives, there will be a place in your daily order and there will be a desire for positive decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u3	Thank you, Taras Viktorovich. I want to let you know that we have agreed that the next plenary week will begin on Tuesday as a thematic part of the agrarian bill, and I am confident that Parliament will support them, and together we will be able to implement these initiatives. Thank you. So now the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! Last year, a new school year started last week, and I want to report to Parliament and to all who are watching this broadcast, what we came up with, what we entered the new school year. First of all, preschool education this year. I'm asking you to include the presentation. In this school year. Here's the next slide. Here's all the statistics on preschool education, now the average preschool education is 74 percent of the children from 3 to 5 years old, and that's the percentage that doesn't suit us, because preschool education is the authority of the local authorities, we coordinate our work together and, of course, that the additional need that is now at least 90,000 places in preschool schools still has to be achieved over the coming years. This year, by September 1, we were able to enter almost 11,000 additional seats, and by the end of the year, 25,000 are planned. Preschool education is a support for a child to succeed in school. At the end of May, we adopted a new health policy for preschool institutions, which will allow local authorities to be more flexible in opening new preschool facilities according to standards that are more acceptable at the same time useful to children but require smaller capital to create new preschool groups. As far as general secondary education is concerned. Here's the next one. In general, secondary education. We started this new academic year with part of the achievement, but also with part of the problem. First of all, it was important for us to start correcting this collapse with textbooks that had been created over the last five years. And I'm going to report that for the first time, 8th grade textbooks are printed by the school year in full volume and shipped to the districts. We have taken 90 percent of these textbooks to the district level, another 10 percent, which is related to minority schools and schools for children with special needs. Because we made it through the economy because we've made a lot of use of the manual because there's no more payoffs. We saved money and printed Braille textbooks for children. And for that, we're also now printing a crossword for the elementary school with the works of modern children's Ukrainian writers, and that's to support the updated programs of the elementary school. [[Applause]] But there are problems. The 4-7 class manuals remain problematic. Why? Because last year 50 percent was printed at the expense of the state budget. And the MPs here have joined in, giving 80 million dollars from their payroll fund. But now the second part is to be printed by local authorities. They got a partial subsidy for this. But this subsidy went to 3,000 local self - government entities. And some of them did great. Look, the Winnitsky area, for example, bought 100 percent, Cherniewecka bought almost 100, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kiev purchased 87. Instead, there are areas of outsiders or cities of district importance that didn't do it in time. And we have 68 percent, we even have 47, 49, 50. I urge the local authorities to do this duty to the children and to collect these textbooks from the 4-7 classes. We're also now buying school buses, 144 boarding schools open. It's a complicated process, and it's complicated because they haven't been able to fully show children where they can get to a high school and get a really high-quality education. For help. 600 million dollars for buses from the state budget, 200 million for hardware purchases. These funds have not been fully developed by local authorities. Come on in. I'm sorry. More than 200 buses are now purchased. But a similar figure is still expected when tenders are made. We have to continue these programs. And we also understand very well that there are schools where we can't deliver children because they're territorially remote, or they're primary schools, because the primary school should be as close as possible to the child's place of residence. And here we now have discussions about the formula for the distribution of educational subsidies. It's very important for us to have the specificity of such schools in terms of the formula, and we're working on this in preparation of the state budget. Now a lot of attention has been given to the elementary school from which we started to upgrade programs. I'm inviting people's deputies. In the absence of time, I cannot tell you all the nuances of these programs. But the discussion of these programs was a huge announcement among the parents, the country’s leading teachers. And I think it's a really useful shift when we've touched on the content of education. Because the essence of reform is really in the context of education, which needs to be modernized in new learning outcomes and in new teaching methods. And here we have extensive work to do with teachers. To do that, we need to raise the social status of the teacher, which is what we are now working on in the new budget in 2017. Come on in. Our great pain is vocational and technical education. Why I'm saying it's pain. Because this is the only sector where we're going to continue right now, we've just, at the beginning of the summer, worked out issues with troubled cities of district importance and allocated 98 million dollars to those budgets of district cities that have more than 20 percent of the budget of the labour market to help them. The debt was extinguished. Now we're looking at, the debt is starting to go up again. But I want you to notice that very often this debt goes up, not in poor cities or in areas, but in those who just don't want to carry out their mandates. And we've faced a situation where there's money in the city on deposits, hundreds of millions of dollars, there's money in the treasury account, and the mayor's creating debt in his professional and technical institutions! We will not keep quiet about such a situation, we will publicly declare it. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! As the Ministry of Education, we don't share a position that trade-school should be in small cities of district importance. And we're going to fix this in the Budget Code in 2017. But this does not mean that the local authorities today should not exercise the authority given them in the 2016 budget. And it's important for us to transfer them to the district level, and also to transfer them to those cities, district centers that are capable of shaping their system of vocational education according to the regional and municipal labour market. We are also working on this in the drafting of budget documents. We've just been working on new standards for vocational and technical education. Here's the next slide. This is a large part of the standards for many specialties. And finally, colleagues, we do have a lot of problems. And I hope to hear them in your questions. Because that's impossible in a short speech. But I want to draw Parliament's attention to the concept of the New Ukrainian School, which is being widely discussed in society. This is presented in a live language, in a brief form, the basis for the approach to that new Ukrainian school, which is described in the draft Education Act, which we ask you to put into order at last and consider, at least in the first reading, so that we can work on it. We need the support of Parliament, because we are already gaining the support of society. We very much ask you to familiarize yourself with this concept that aims at a graduate personality, a patriotic citizen and a person with innovative thinking and a competent approach to education. And finally. I want to calm everyone down right now so that there's no such thing as anxiety that we're going to introduce some kind of unprepared program or school. We have (the next slide) a progressive implementation plan. There is 2018 when children go to the first class of the new school and there are clearly divided phases, the graduality of this reform. The reform must be prepared with new content, new teaching materials, qualified teachers with new teaching methods, and a ready school network. Then it won't be able to bring back any policies that will change us. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer all the hard questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina, for the thorough report. Dear colleagues, we now have 30 minutes to question the national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to point out that questions are from national MPs, not factions, not groups. And I would ask all the factions and groups to record conscientiously, because then there's a discussion that our faction or group didn't get the word. If everyone has a disciplined record, I'm sure everyone will be able to ask questions. So I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. Please. And I'm asking you to record the questions of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please record. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Groissman, and the Ministry of Finance, and Mr. Rosenko. Today, parents and children have left the Minfin building, children under the age of five, whose state has not given money for cohlear implantation for two and a half years. And these kids, if they don't do this surgery within five years, they'll be deaf. Unfortunately, he was just talking to Mr. Rosenko, and he said, with a little smile, that there was no money this year. First of all, I don't think it's funny, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. And secondly, what are we going to do about it? I already know that the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child has intervened in the Office of the President, and whatever the position is, everyone is doing a good job: both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, but this is all on the floor. Therefore, the request is huge, this year it takes 50 children to heal them, do whatever it takes for these people to hear us with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u7	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! As you know, all programs funded by the budget today are approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, indeed, unfortunately, this year we were unable to find these funds together, these funds are in the state budget today. I think that in the process of forming the State Budget for 2017, together with the Supreme Council, we will be looking for opportunities for the treatment of such children. But you said it yourself, but the situation didn't come up today, and three years now is not being treated properly, and three years are not being allocated from the budget. I propose that we take a constructive approach to this issue and try to address it in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Sažko Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. In view of the fact that it has been two years since our government’s cedation to date, there is no officially appointed minister of health. So without having any questions to do today, I ask you questions because you are in charge of the job. I'm not asking where the Flowers are, I'm not asking why there's no drugs for 2015, I have a question for you. Did you know that there was no international procurement tender for 2016, no medicine and no medicine? And this is because the international organizations are paying 110 million dollars. I have a request for you to resolve the personnel issue at the appointment of the minister. And answer if you know that there are no drugs. And name at least one drug that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say about the health of children, what the previous Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenko asked. The problem needs to be solved. I think these are some critical points that we can work out with you. Let us now determine, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, how much money we need to start supporting such children. And we'll keep you posted. And maybe together you're going to need an offer where we're going to look for resources to do this work. As far as medicine is concerned. Of course, I know, and you know, and the whole country knows we have a problem. There was a problem with the supply of drugs. Today, this problem is unlocked, including vaccines. But this is not enough because there was a backlog. And that was the supply, we unlocked it last year. Now the question is to do the purchases in 2016. In fact, the Ministry of Health is now balancing the need, and we will continue to make purchases. We think it's the right thing to do. What's more, I think a lot of people don't like this question when it comes to buying drugs from international organizations, we have an economy of 10 to 90 percent. And I know that a lot of people in this game are always hands. But it won't happen again. As long as our Cabinet of Ministers, this Parliament, I think, will support, we will not give up the idea of buying into international organizations. And now we have to catch up. And we understand that, and the Ministry of Health is dealing with this. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The latest information on this subject will be provided by Ulyana Suprun, the Acting Minister of Health. I ask, if possible, a minute, that's important information.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u12	Good afternoon! I wanted to provide information that 82 percent of the medicines that were ordered in 2015 had already been delivered to Ukraine, and most of them have already been delivered to the region. This morning they had a meeting in children’s oncology. There are medicines that are now in the customs warehouse that have been unable to solve the problem for almost 90 days. Today, with the help of the National Deputys of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Health has unlocked the problem, and we think that by the end of next week the blurry will be completed, and we will be getting those drugs for oncological children that will then be up to 95 percent of all the drugs that will be needed in Ukraine by the end of the contract, this is until the month of November, all the vaccines will come to Ukraine, because the last we are waiting for vaccines that have been delivered by 50 percent, but in Ukraine now there is no need for up to 100 percent, so that we can have the largest time of use of those vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u14	Deputy Gus, 19th constituency. Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question. I have in the district of Volodymyr Wallinsky, 51st, today the 14th, the brigade, the 44th apartment building for the military hasn't been built for several years. I turned from the rostrum several times and it was a miracle that, with your help, Kabin had allocated 8 million to build this house. But unfortunately, there's been a crime, this year this money doesn't come to the building, so there's a tender, something else, something else, and the families of the fallen fighters won't be able to move in. And today they're saying, in 2017, there and so on and so forth and so forth. I'm asking you to order those who haven't done or done your job, these eight million this year are going to fail. It's a disgrace! I'm ashamed to see you too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u15	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u16	I am personally ashamed to look at the families of the dead when I say that the government has allocated money, eight million is, let's finish this house this year, it's 80 percent ready. And we're told in the Mini-Defense, we failed, we have no tenders, no assignments, and so on. It's a disgrace! I'm asking you to get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Igor. I think the first step we took with you is eight million. Obviously, we're not going to get past the tender procedures, but we're going to have to go through them, and we're going to do it. So now the Ministry of Finance's mission, you hear that, right? So we're going to take all the necessary measures to finance this year's eight million and complete the building. I'm asking you as a national deputy to keep this matter afloat and to keep me informed on the progress of these activities. Do you have a deal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u20	Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Groisman, good afternoon! I'd like to address you with the following statement. The activities of the People's Front since the first days of being in Parliament have been productive against Russian aggression and propaganda. I would like to remind you that on February 23, this year, I asked the Ukrainian Security Service to have a Russian citizen, Stolarov, who was the head editor of the Inter Channel for her conduct and advocacy against Ukraine's activities come out of Ukraine. The reaction was instantaneous. By Thursday, we were giving the same time to do the same thing with citizen Shuvalov, who is also editing the "Inter" channel's policy and fueling hatred and countering the Ukrainian government. Why is there still no response from our Security Service? I'm asking you to take this situation under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. In fact, the Ukrainian Security Service is not in the executive system, it has a separate status. But you have just published the information, and I will be sure to bring it to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u24	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Volodymyr Borisovich! Mr. Prime Minister! I'm sorry. Thank you. The situation in the Hersonian cotton combine. The company is unique. Robbery. Spoiling. They cut out everything that could be cut out, they took out all the aluminum. He's in the process of being rehabilitated right now. Everyone agreed -- creditors, Ukreximbank -- they all agreed to the company's approval, except for our holding fund, which is trying with those who robbed the company before it is trying to get rid of it. And I very much ask you to change the position taken by the Holding Foundation, who wrote to the court that the enterprise should be eliminated because there are senators. Companies are completely transparent, white, who want and can, who have money to pay off all debts. Second question to the MVD to ours. You know, Wednesday there were 150 Odessys who were already protesting under the Supreme Council building against the peaceful start of the second meeting, the second peaceful start of the anti-truchanian arena. I want the M.E.S. to evaluate it in its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u26	How did it happen that for the first time since the Dignity Revolution, police officers stood in masks on September 1st when a peaceful meeting was held when the fundamental right of citizens to peaceful meetings was violated? How come they didn't intervene at all? This is where the women who were beaten came in. I thank all fellow national deputies who have come out, to join the decision, to the Presidential Decision of the current election of Mr. Truhanov, who has two Russian passports. Your assessment, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Herson. I will assign the First Deputy Prime Minister to work with you on this issue and to understand that we can correct it. But I want to emphasize that it is very important for us for the government to make the work of the State Property Fund and any processes of state ownership open, public and understandable. So I'd like to take this into account in dealing with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, yes, please finish your answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u29	Department of Internal Affairs on the situation in Odessa. The situation is under personal control by the minister of the interior, where a comprehensive service check is now being conducted, which will necessarily inform you of the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u30	Thank you. So, Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u31	121th District, Bogdan Matkowski, home of John Frank. Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! I know you from government work as a person who keeps a word that consistently carries out state policy. So I want to remind you that at the last "hour of questions to the government" two months ago, you gave an order to shut down the terriphone in Red and Sokaland. That's right. Your assignment's not done. Two vice-premiers, three ministers, two months of footballing this situation, and they're writing me a note saying it's all over. I was alone a week ago on a tericon. Nothing's done, the tericon's going on, the environmental disaster is going on. And by the way, it's the same thing. It's not clear who runs the Cabinet of Ministers, either you or the mouse. The same situation with the historical and cultural reserve in Nagivovich in Ivano-Frankivsky. The status of the nationals you promised. 160 years old, John Frank. The status of the nationals you promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u34	You promised to hand over and join the President in taking such an initiative. The president agreed. And somewhere in the Kabina slums, that submission was lost again. It's the end of John Frank's year, and he's never going to get national status. Please state the order of the mice there, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u35	It's a very, very, very important problem. There's more than just mice, there's more. In general, they're representatives of exotic animals. But there are many conscientious people who work and do their work under extremely difficult conditions. I think that, Oleg Stepanovich, you know what it's like to work in government, and how it's not easy when you have to change the system, when you have to break stereotypes, and when you still have to resist, you know, break a system of resistance. There's work to be done here. But along with the terricone. In fact, I gave the assignment, I remember that, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko. But, my friends, I'm sorry, I won't criticize you, but why wait two months until I get here to tell me something's not out. There's my phone, Oleg Stepanovich. Well, for a week you can see something's not happening, whether it's a technique or something. Give me a signal about it, and we'll do it, and there's no problem. The only way to make it possible is from a technical point of view. We understand what tericons are. So I think that now Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko, Vice Prime Minister will inform you of what he has done to carry out my mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u36	Turn it on, please. Next question. Please, Katzer-Buchkovska Natalija Volodymyrna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u37	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u38	Good afternoon, colleagues! I have a question for the Ukrainian Ministry of Information Policy. Did the Ministry’s experts analyze the content of the correspondence from the Russian agency? The creative producer of the TV channel "Inter" Maria Stolarova, which the SBA created outside Ukraine in February of this year? There were the names of many of the national deputies who are in this room today. Please take into account the valuable information from correspondence when developing information security measures. Because there's a detailed fact in the lettering of Stolar as using the "Inter" channel and a group of MPs, hostile propaganda is destroying the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u39	Thank you for asking and for your attention to the work of our ministry. Taking into account the modest resources we possess, we try to work for the outcome. Of course, after the contents of Stolarov’s mailbox became public, the matter was not overlooked by the Ministry. In particular, Minister Yuri Stecz’s information security adviser, Dmitry Zolotuchina, who gave his position and expert conclusions and assumptions on the media detector in several of his publications. They're public, I'm ready to hand them over to you. In particular, from this point of view, what I'm going to add is that we're currently in the civil service mail with the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. If you want to learn more about the contents of this letter, we invite you to see it. And, if so, of course, I'm going to break your questions down on a few points that I'm going to comment on, and I'm going to touch on a topic that's painful to us, that's the subject of our documents that we're developing with a view to creating information security conditions in the country. In particular, the doctrine of state information security, which we submitted, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in October 15th, which is still in the Council of National Defence Security and which has not yet been adopted, has been for almost a year. For us, this document is fundamental, one that will actually create conditions for further steps on the information security path. Well, if you go to the threats you're talking about, yes, and the propaganda that destroys our Ukrainian statehood, I'm going to add one thing. Unfortunately, the Ministry has no legal authority to regulate television content, a radiocontent. The regulator today is the National Council on Television, Radio. So if you want real mechanisms, please vote for certain laws. For example, yesterday’s draft law on so - called fines may be awarded by the National Council of Languages. Please, if you vote, I think this will be a real mechanism for regulating this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u40	Thank you. Shurma gave the floor to the national deputy Gusak. Please turn on the Goose microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u41	I have a question for the Minister of Energy and the coal industry of Ukraine. Dear Igor Stepanovich! Unfortunately, my question is already traditional and relates to the debt on wages in front of coal mines. There was an attempt to pay off this debt to the miner's Day, which is traditionally the fourth Sunday of August. But something probably didn't work out. Because we already have cases where miners are trying to burn themselves in a ministry building, almost on the Crusades. When the strike miners Volina and Lviv cover the roads. That's the question. What's the amount of debt in front of the government mines? And when will it finally be extinguished?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. I'm informing you, by Mining Day, we've decided, together with the directors of state-owned enterprises and professional departments, that wages will be paid, as stipulated in the contract, every 10 and 25 numbers. According to the agreement, we paid 10 to 200 million and paid 200 million by the miner's day, closing nearly 400 million wages. Today, $355 million is owed on salary, which is a little bit more than a monthly wage fund. In a separate meeting with the vice-premier and, by the way, reported on this subject by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it is considered that when the budget changes are made, funds will be provided for the state subsidy on the cost of coal extracted. Today, this sum is being considered as an opportunity to remove the issue of wages and miners. In addition, I would like to say that a fully conceptual programme has been developed for the development of Ukraine's coal industry, which includes not only the financing of individual mines, but also the elimination of individual mines with the adaptation of direct miners, as well as partially more than 12 mines that will go into privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u43	Thank you. Hanna Hopko gives the floor to Katzer-Buchovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, Reverend Igor Stepanovich, I have the following questions. At present, the issue of energy security of the state is very pressing. In this regard, I inform you that we have 15 numbers holding a joint meeting of the PEC Committee and international energy security issues, and we would very much like to see representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Energy at this meeting. And I'd like to ask a few questions. At the last government meeting, an additional purchase of 3 billion cubic feet [3 billion cubic metres] of gas was made in connection with the lack of coal in companies’ warehouses. Please explain, Minister of Energy, why are you currently 30 to 40 percent less coal than you were in the same period last year, and what sources of natural gas are you planning for these 3 billion cubic meters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. And yesterday we spoke to Alexander Georgievic, I will definitely be 15 at the committee meeting, because this time we were leaving with the Prime Minister at a meeting with the four prime ministers of the Visegrad Four. As far as preparing for the winter season, I'll give you figures to make them known throughout the country. The Ministry of Energy and Coal at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a plan to provide coal to the generating companies TES and TEC. Today, according to the plan, we have to have an anthracite coal group at TES 459,000 tons, at warehouses there are 410,000 tons. In a gas group of 646,000 tons, we went out for 561,000 tons. So basically, the Ministry is working on that graph and in that decision taken to provide for the fall of the winter period, which is foreseen by the plan. Special retardation is the daily norm of coal supply, I don't see. As for the increase in gas reserves, from 14.5 billion to 17 billion cubic metres of gas. First of all, they have to say there's a temperature mode. And if it was loyal enough to the state of Ukraine last year, we predict a temperature decline and we must be ready for that period. And we don't know how to deliver anthracite coal from the ATO zone. We're predicting that even if this coal is not delivered, the launch of the gas-oil blocks can compensate. The capacity that will be activated by the gas and oil blocks to compensate for the total anthracite coal group is about 1 billion 200, 1 billion 400 million cubic metres of gas, and that is to say, they are projected in strategic stocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, five minutes, we'll be able to ask two, tops, three questions. Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u47	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. You're preparing a budget that you promised to bring to the Parliament Hall by September 15th. I ask, what state support programs are available in the budget for an agricultural producer, such as farmers in the livestock sector, plants? Does it really fit the information, or do you want to take from the new year the producers of special taxes, even the small portion of VAT that they have left this year? That's the first question. And the second question. A month ago, at a government meeting, you announced a major reform of the pay system. I want you to tell society right now what you're doing as Prime Minister and Government to radically raise citizens' incomes, such as the minimum wage, pensions, because it's clear that without an increase in citizens' income, there will be no growth in the economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u48	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for your question. We're actually preparing and introducing a draft of the State Budget Act 2017 in September. There are seven priorities that we consider to be a proposal for consideration by the people’s deputies. We're counting on you and me to adopt a real honest budget. A budget that will match the real state of the economy, which will also have an investment component for growth. As far as I'm concerned. We're planning a massive road construction and a change in funding for this direction, that's an appropriate economic development. Undoubtedly, our first priority is security and defense, which we need to strengthen. Next position, we're keeping positions on decentralization of finance. I think you know, in the cities that are today. And in areas, and in areas where there's a positive change from that, we just have to develop and strengthen them. A particular issue is the promotion of energy efficiency, it is the security of our country's energy dependency, and we are also planning enough serious resources, including international resources, to join a fund that can be created through the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Fund Act, state. We are looking at support for agriculture and we are looking at support for very small farms. This support is going to be equal to 5.5 billion dollars, which is equal to one percent of the crude agrarian production. And we would think that this support should be given to those who have land on small farms. They can use this support for any purpose. As far as coefficients are concerned, I believe that it is necessary not only to attach ourselves to the earth but also to the produce produced, but also to the depth of its processing. Then we'll create added value right in Ukraine. In particular, I would like to emphasize that this resource can be directed with you, including to support domestic machinery, to restore this industry. The point is that we have to provide support for the production of Ukrainian tractors, trailers -- all that is used today to work on the ground. That's why we have an ambitious and ambitious plan, and we're going to be counting on the support of the people's deputies of Ukraine. Without you, without change of laws, without budget support, of course, it will be extremely difficult to do so. As far as pay reform is concerned. Absolutely, I want to confirm once again what I said at the government meeting, I think, and the government thinks that the pay for the work of Ukrainians is undervalued. And we think we have something to work on to offer an effective model. And I want to assure you, as soon as we finish this work, once we see that all approaches are in line with the real economic situation, we will present this to the Ukrainian Parliament and we will ask for your support, because without changing the legislation, it will also be impossible for us to do so. I mean, I am responsible for what I say about a just pension, about a decent pay for the work of Ukrainians, and such steps will be taken. And another priority, which is important, I've left it to an end, but it's important, and it's relevant, including raising wages -- it's supporting Ukrainian education. I think this should be our very important priority. We have to teach our children quality in kindergartens, schools, vocational and technical institutions and higher education institutions. We have to create quality. a high-quality government order that will fully meet the training of personnel in our educational institutions and the needs of the labour market, which is not available today. You've seen today a presentation by the Minister of Education that we need to build a completely new approach to the new school, supporting these schools. And it's going to need this as the minimum of the medium-term and long-term strategy of our movement. Thus, this priority remains, and it retains an increase in wages. We will offer this to the Ukrainian national deputies for teachers. So we think we can do this by two steps on a single tariff grid. And so there's 300 or more bracelets for each teacher, and 700, and 500, and 900 will be raised. And also, since December 1, 2016, there's going to be a 10 percent, not that much, I'd say, an acceptable step, but possible. 10 percent will raise all social standards -- minimum pension and minimum wage, that'll be automatic. But we don't think that's enough. We're working to, I'd say, not radically, but dramatically increase the income of Ukrainians, including by stimulating domestic demand. I would also like to say that we will be paying attention to infrastructure projects next year. We will be filling the State Regional Development Fund to implement regional development programmes, as well as support through the socio-economic fund to support such regional cooperation. We'll do it together with the local budgets. We think 2017 is going to be a year of growth. But I also want to emphasize that it's very important for us to be together, that I don't want to share here: coalition, opposition, we need to work together on a plan of action for Ukraine's development. Because Ukraine and Ukraine are more than anything else, and all other political conflicts must be left on the sidelines until people get a normal salary, a normal pension, and the economy is so stable that they can finance a strong Ukrainian army, and Ukraine will take place as a European democratic state. So I encourage everyone to work together on this issue. I would like very much to thank all the national MPs for supporting the government's initiatives. Yesterday at a government meeting, I gave an order that when draft laws were to be tabled in Parliament, it was very important that the opinion be taken into account during the government's consideration of the committees of profile. So your opinion, even when it comes to government decisions, will be taken into account. I ask you to use this mechanism, we will make appropriate changes to the regulations of the Ukrainian government and we will continue to be set up, and we will continue to maintain only constructive interaction with the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you very much and wish us all success. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u49	Thank you very much, Vladimir Borisovich. "Year of questions to the government" is over, time's up. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the fundamental systemic discussion. Thank you. And, colleagues, now for one minute, please. Colleagues, pay attention! We're supposed to have a copy of the Rules right now. But then we're going to have a hard time finding enough deputies to vote on, so I'm going to put a proposal to the vote first to consider the issue of order of the day, and then to ask questions. So in three minutes, there will be a vote in the hall. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that in three minutes we will begin our work by voting. And while the MPs are coming, I have a statement from two factions -- the faction, the MP's faction of the People's Front and the MP's faction of Oleg Lacha -- calling for a break that they're willing to exchange for a speech from the rostrum. And I give the floor to the representative of the People's Front of Victoria Sumar. Please. And the deputies, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Mr. Prime Minister! Frankly, it's easy for me now. We took a break because I heard the First Deputy Minister of Information Policy reply to Mrs. Japarov's question. And I've had a lot of questions about the professional level of our government in this regard. Mrs. Japparov actually told us right here how national MPs should work and what laws they were. should be accepted so that the authorities can comply with their obligations regarding the protection of Ukrainian information space. So for Mrs. Japarov, who will probably be able to hear and see, I can tell the way that power can work today. Today, the Ministry of Informatics, where you and I are allocating the money we've created with you, should simply do its job -- proper monitoring and appropriate expertise. Continue to go to trial, and the court has every opportunity today to take action against those media that are now fueling international hostility, promoting war, fueling conflicts here inside. Instead, the First Deputy of the Ministry of Informatics tells us that we need to adopt laws so that they can take away the licenses. Frankly, such a professional level of executive power is a matter of serious concern. I have a lot of questions about what the Ministry of Informatics is doing today. I've never heard of Mrs. Japarov. We're waiting for the Information Policy Committee to report on the steps it has taken to protect the Ukrainian information space. I would also like to urge you to sign the law that brings the Russian information product out of the name of the European information product. And I remind you, colleagues, that real security starts with what's in our heads, and that's information security first. And do your job, respectable government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u51	Thank you. I want to remind you that once we were in the PNB, without a sufficient legislative framework, we were willing to stop Russian television channels with decisive decisions, so we need political will, so we need determination and understanding of the danger facing Ukraine, where the information attack is almost as important as the military attack. And I think, Mrs. Victoria, that the government will hear our position, the parliament will adopt the legislative base, and yesterday we showed our political will, but I think that both the government and the executive structures should do their job in the same quality. Thank you very much, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote and the national deputies to return to the hall. A lot of deputies have just come out and I'm asking my colleagues to come back now. And I remind you what I'm going to have to offer. I remind you that according to the Rules, we have now read requests. I also remind you that after the requests are read, it is very difficult to move on to making decisions. And so my idea is that we should be laws that are non-conflict, which are completely unifying, environmental laws can vote and then go to question-reading, but for that to be a decision of the room, I can't change the order of the question. And that's why I'm asking you to come into the hall. If there is the will of the hall to begin consideration of these issues, we will go to them, if there is not, and we will go to questions about what it was like for us every Friday. You say "press," and I'm waiting for a couple of people to come along. It's actually going to be a signal. When we come back, people are in the hall, if we don't come back, then there's no. So that's the rating when I change the order of the day, and it shows us. So, colleagues, are they all in the hall? Come on in, colleagues. Is my position supported by everyone? Everyone is supported. The main thing is whether there are enough deputies in the room. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to now consider the issues of the agenda that we have today marked. This is the draft of Laws 2023, 3445 and 2604, and then the question read. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. [[11:12:55]] For-160. In factions, please include. Guys, let's do it again. If this is hopeless, we will read the questions. My colleagues, once again I ask you to enter a hall where there is no one. I'll know for sure that the issue of ecology is a matter of coalition. I've stressed this a lot, society, when there's a bill and there's an author from a person who doesn't join the coalition, it's probably nobody's mind to say, "We don't vote because it's not a coalition." I emphasize that this is the Ukrainian Parliament, a point that should be concerned with the security of the state and the reforms! Coalition and opposition are issues that relate to political debates and only a certain range of issues. Most of the questions, 80-90 percent is a question of state building, where there can be no political differences between statesmen. Colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote again. I hope her entire hall will support her. And I'm voting on the proposal to move on to agenda issues, and then I'm going to read the questions. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[11:14:37]] For 169 The hall has the firm will to hear the questions. Respectfully. [[B in m in s a l in]] Obviously one of the most important forms. And everyone will listen to them carefully, I'm sure. And I'd like to invite you. According to article 25 of Ukraine’s Supreme Council Rules, on Friday we have time to make inquiries. I invite the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oxana Siroid, to make an announcement. I ask everyone to listen carefully to the questions. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u52	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let us now consider the questions of the national MPs. The first questions we have are with the President of Ukraine. We have been asked by the President of Ukraine, Mr. Jurij-Bogdan Shuhevich, to remove the fine "is not subject to publication" and to repeal all of the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former National Deputies of the U.S.R.R. and the Soviet Union, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, and members of their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to terminate the payment of pensions to these persons. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in order to support the request of the National MP, your colleague, we need to get 150 votes first. And then send this request to the President with 226 votes. I ask you to determine whether this request is supported by a vote. I would like to vote in favour of the request of the People's Deputy, Bogdan-Juriy Suhevich. [[11:17:00]] For 122 Unfortunately, there was no support for the request, no support for the request is "yes" -- only 122 votes. I think this situation needs to be corrected in the Constitution itself. And maybe someday we'll find a will with you to change that, because this tool of parliamentary control is completely ineffective. During our existence, at the time of the convening of this Parliament, we were unable to direct any request. And this is not worthy of the Ukrainian Parliament. Next questions. National Deputy Igor Kononka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for Information on receiving and distributing the Ministry of Finance. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the European Val project (the Wall) and the engineering and technical arrangements for the Ukrainian-Russian state border, the territories adjacent to the anti-terrorist area, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Paul Kishkar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, National Police Department of Kiev, Prosecutor's Office of Kiev regarding the involvement of officials of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in the criminal offence of sending a letter to the tenant about the termination of the lease of the Dnipro-Buzki Seaport. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the inaction of the Novomoskov Local Prosecutor's Office in investigating the beating of peaceful demonstrators in the village of Schulgivka Petrikowa district of Dnipropetrovsk. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 for the capital repair of the Lebedin-Lipova Valley road, which passes through the territory of the Labedin and Lipovodolin regions of the Suma region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the capital repair of the Lebedin-Chupachovka-Ochtirka road, which passes through the territory of the Labedin and Ohtyr regions of the Sumy region. Jurya Solovya is the director of the Fund’s deposit guarantee for the shareholders. AT Bank of Finance and Credit to citizens of Love Sakadel. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the change to the position on "The individual form of education in general educational institutions". Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchy, Kiskara, Krivenka) to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for refusing to recommend a candidate for appointment as Judge of the Kirov District Court of Kirovgrad Kulinka Ludmila Dmitrovna. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation by the local authority of the constitutional rights of the community of the village of Toustja Romanov County of Žitomir Region, in the decision to reorganize the Toustian School of Public Education I-I. Viktor Razwadowski up to his temporary duty as Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Zitomir District State Administration for a free operation and for the provision of material assistance for the treatment of the child with disabilities of the Flood Tetian, born in 2010, residents of the village of Ulyanówk of the Zitomir region, the Zitomir region. Alexander Dubinin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the request for resignation of the leadership of the Kamyan Police Department of the National Police Department in the Dnipropetrov region and an independent investigation into the deliberate murder of fellow Ukrainian police officers, Sergio Garbus. Petra Vanata to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the drafting of Cabinet Decision No. 461 of 24 June 2016. Jury Odarchenka to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations, to provide information on the basis of tariffs and water supply standards for the city's utilities, "The Water Supply Management of the City of Herson". Jury Odarchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the submission of documents that provided the basis for the approval of the "Prospective Community Plan in the Hersonian Region". Ruslana Knazević to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to assist in the organization of the treatment of Billous Maria and Billous Alexandre. Igor Guza to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the issue of bank service with the Russian capital of Ukrainian state enterprises. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the need to build underground gas pipelines with 80 percent or more. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the investigation of offences that have caused damage to Ukraine's state budget, in the implementation of the National Interim Assistance Project, which envisioned the introduction of the Ukrainian Emergency Medical Assistance Act. Igor Shurma to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the involvement of officials of the Slovenian Police Department of the National Police Department of the Donetsk Region, who systematically commit corruption offences in the interests of the accused. Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchy, Kishkara, Krivenka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal acts and violations of CPC by officials of the Financial Investigations Office of the International Chief Executive Office of the State Fiscal Service, the Central Office for the Service of Large Taxpayers. Vassil Janicka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Head of the Masevicka Rural Council of the Rokinni District, Head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plain Region, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Rineoblanergo to solve the issue of electricity supply in the village of Buda Rokitnov district of the Plain region. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor for the establishment of conditions for the use of a premium class vehicle with a national license plate that he does not have and is set up on his own, and for the prosecution of those responsible. Igor Kotwiecki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on opening a walking point on the border with Slovakia, in Uzhgrad. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the involvement of ex-owners of the Montenegrin District Administration in causing damage to the state during the purchase of medical equipment for the perinatal centre in the city of Chernivci. Paul Kishkar to the National Police of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, concerning the intervention of the Society's limited-liability "Energomash Engineering Centre" in charge of the Netherlands Police Department of the National Police Department of the Kharkiv Region of Marchenko O.M. and the abuse by the State Executive Officer of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Administration of the State Executive Service of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Kharkiv Region of Piculea V.Y. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for information on the future construction of the Lviv-Herson Highway. The hopes of Savchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal use of defence land by the Ministry of Defence under 26 farm contracts, the subject of which is the actual transfer of more than 27,000 hectares by private operators for agricultural and other production. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the subject, who supervises and maintains the road area on the street of the Olympic village of Nova Bilocorovici in the Olewi region of the Žitomir region and is able to transfer it to the community of the village. Vladimir Aresonkova, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to provide for visually impaired persons in Ukraine with typhotechnic tools. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of additional funds to support the district government administrations to make compulsory payments to government officials under the Ukrainian State Service Act. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the inclusion of a state-owned investment project on the technical refurbishment of GDP "Renovation Checkout" in Ukraine's National Budget forecast for 2017. Artema Ilyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal of 04 August 2016 No.230/128 on the establishment of public-house gas accounting units pursuant to Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.620 of 16 May 2002 (Decision No. 46 of the CMU of 27 January 2016). Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to improve the formula for the distribution of educational subsidies in order to support schools in the less populated areas. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the construction of the gas pipeline to the villages of Berest, Orvijanica, Solomiyuk, Kurash, Coast of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of health monitoring, medical examination and recovery of persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine to ensure the functioning of children's sports schools in Ukraine. Olga Bogolitz to the head of Montenegro’s district government regarding the allocation of targeted funding of 1 million dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. to set up a road cover for the thoroughfare within the city of Pritka Chernigiv district. Vladimir Husak to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the formation of the Volodymyr village united territorial community. Jury Tymoshenko to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the verification of the compliance of the administrative decisions of the Director-General of UDFZ "Strengthening" with the current legislation. Dmitra Špenov to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the head of the Ukrainian diplomatic institution in the Swiss Confederation. Sergia Eutuska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of an incident involving members of Nazvard’s forces in the city of Sarna Ravensk. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the salaries of local government officials. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of state regulation and the proper functioning of the market for the purchase of milk by the population, with the aim of supporting agriculture. Romana Macola to the President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the provision of deaf children to Ukrainian systems of implantation of hearing aids. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the need to allocate funds from the state and district budgets to complete the reconstruction of the Lviv District Clinical Perinatal Center. Mikoli Skorak to the Attorney General of Ukraine for providing information on the status of the claim of corruption and for bringing a person to justice for the corruption that has been committed. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the extraordinary situation in the Odessa region, with funding and limited actual costs in 2016 of professional and technical institutions from the district budget and city budgets of cities of regional importance. Artur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration to resolve the issue of a housing balancer at the address: Stallski Street, 32 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka's executive responsibility as head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the capital repairs of asphalt cover at: Prospect Lisovy, 6-10, 12a. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the illegal use of land that was used by the State Enterprise "Hožulov Research Biological Factory" of the Poltava region and the removal of its former employees from the land share (pau) in connection with the demand for these land for state property. in connection with the state ownership of these lands. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the gasification of the village of Burkovci in the Tetij district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the prosecutor of the Kyiv district, the prosecutor of the Biloczerk District Attorney’s Office for the return of documentation on the village’s gas pipeline. Orikhovec village of the Skuri district of Kyiv region. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the actual state-of-the-art implementation of state-of-the-art programs for the purchase of medical supplies, vaccines and medical products by international organizations and the provision of copies of contracts made between the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and international purchasing organizations. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to implement the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants by protecting the environment and on the urgent allocation of funds for destruction that are not suitable for the use of chemical plant protection products in the Herson region. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the list of health care expenditure from the National Budget of Ukraine "Ukrainian Special Rapporteur on radiation protection of the population of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" and for accounting by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the border costs of the medical subsidy for the financial provision of the activities of the medical institution. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the legality of the cancellation of registrations in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms, regarding the "Grecian Agrofirma". Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of underwater pipelines to the villages of Verttiyivka and Milniks of the Lowland region of Chernigiv region. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the creation of the Scientific and Scientific Centre on the basis of the separate departments of the National University of Bioresources and the use of Ukraine's Nižinian Agrotechnical Institute and the Nižinian Agrotechnical College. Dmitry Dobrodomov to the Lviv City Head on the opening of the tram line to the Sikh residential array in Lviv. Sergia Kiwalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support for youth housing. Ivan Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Energy Efficiency and Energy Agency of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Energy Efficiency Program "The Savings House" in 2016. Hennady Bobov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible delay in criminal investigation. Jacob Besbach to the State Science and Production Company, the National Geological Information Foundation of Ukraine, the State Geology Service, and the Ukrainian Nadr to ensure proper economic activity. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the execution of the 2016 State Defence Order. Yurya Bereza to serve as head of the Dnipropetrovska District Road Service in charge of financing the current repair of the Saksagang-Czumaki and Krasnoyvanka-Saksagangan highways, M 04. Yurya Bereza until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to issue an urgent letter of guarantee for the payment of treatment abroad for Shapoval Polina Sergiyivna. Andrija Shipka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the financing of repairs in residential buildings where OSB was created. Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on raising salaries for education, medicine and culture workers. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of pension for persons who have retired for a period of time. Hanni Hopko to the Lviv city head about providing a list of domestic and foreign investors who for 10 years have been asking Lviv city authorities for investment in collecting, storing, reprocessing and information about the reasons for the rejection or ignoring each of these proposals. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessary measures to restore funding for the guarantee programmes provided by the State to the participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the recalculation of pensions for teachers who retired by 2010. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the activities of the State Institute of Eye Diseases and Tissue Therapy of the Filatov National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing a reduction in wages for employees of the Lviv medical ambulance station. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the energy and social security of the population of Ukraine regarding the provision of strategic coal production in shelters in sufficient quantity for the heating season 2016-2017. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes in the financing and restructuring of small-scale secondary schools to reduce social tension among the inhabitants of the Premyslian region of Lviv. People’s Deputies — Batenka, Kupriya, and others A total of seven deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment to paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the Cabinet of Ministers of 16 September 2015, number 975, on the transfer of the entire property complex of public health institutions to the property (shared property) of the territorial communities, namely: the transfer of the State Hospital of the Station of the Odessa State Enterprise to the property of the local community of Dobroveckevsky district (Kyrovograd region) and the verification of the legality of the Order of the City Head of Aid No. 64 of 24 December 2015 on the validation of the cost of medical examinations by the municipal hospital of the 24th anniversary of 21 October 2015 on the appointment of the head of the municipal hospital. Alexander Revega to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of authorised persons in the management of the environment and natural resources of the Žitomir ODA and the deputies of the Žitomir District Council. Jurya Drevijanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide information on the use of budget funds of 1 billion dollars for the development and implementation of state investment projects in 2016 and the national strategy for infrastructure development in the country. Sergia Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on illegal installation of public buildings for gas consumption rather than for individual consumption. Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of State support to a charitable institution that performs an important social function. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association "Rineoblanergo" concerning the electrification of residential buildings on the street of the Sadov village of Dvorovich Rivnensky district. Oleg Osuhovski to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper examination by the Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region of the circumstances of falsification of the decision of the Brodov City Council of May 31, 2016 No135. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of gas tariffs for the population. Alexander Gerega to the minister of social policy for the transformation of cars into the property of disabled persons and members of families of disabled persons. Vladislav Doub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the promotion of the restoration of the full functioning of the Academy of Fire Safety of the Heros of Chernobyl. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Procurator-General of Ukraine for the conversion of the Zolitani District Council of the Cherkas region into an inappropriate response by the local authorities and the Zolitani Local Prosecutor's Office regarding the protection of the interests of the State and the community as part of the inefficient use of public funds in the reconstruction of clean buildings in the city of Złotonoša, as well as the severe ecological situation of the Zoldanoška and Suha Zgar rivers. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the continuation of work on the construction of the Novograd-Wallin surgical corps of the Regional Territorial Medical Union. Jaroslava Dubnević, head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and anti-terrorists, head of the Red-Chaban Rural Council of the Kalanchi District of Hersson County, head of the Hersson District State Administration for the housing of the participant in the hostilities, disabled of the 2nd group of Oleg Macarczuk. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the granting of war status to a forest worker who was involved in the construction of engineering defence facilities in the ATO area. Jaroslava Markevich, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the financing of operations for military personnel from the regeneration of individual areas of skin, bone, and muscle. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the rental of land rations for residents of the village of Bolotnica of the People’s Region of the Žitomir Region. Mikhail Golka, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the payment of salaries to the staff of the Vishniwetsky District Municipal Hospital in the Ternopil region, is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil district government to review the address of residents on Tarnavsky Street, 7 A in Ternopil. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the use of measures to ensure that, in accordance with the rules of law in force, the use by individuals and legal persons of land in the territory of the Vancikovetske Rural Council of the Cherniewsky region. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of living standards for Ukrainian citizens as a result of a further increase by the Government of Municipal Tariffs. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the industrial sector of Ukraine's economy. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Donetsk district government, head of the Luhansk district government, to provide information about children who died during or as a result of armed conflict. Ruslan Solvar, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, to resolve the issue of obtaining a victim’s identification as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the response to complaints by residents of the Brovary region of Kyiv in connection with the continuation of the practice of holding an additional consumer commission to pay the bills for natural gas consumed in the AT Savings. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consideration of the situation at the State Institute of Brezanenka Professional Agrarians, and for the approval of the Regional Order for the Training of Experts, Scientific, Scientific and Pedagogical Personnel, the Higher Qualification and the Retraining of Personnel. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation that resulted from the responsibility of the General Directorate of the State Department in the Zaporozhye area around the receipt of ATO land participants in the territory of the Zaporozhye region. Sergey Rudika to the Arbitrary State Enterprise "Rayduga Construction Plant" to pay off the arrears of the wages paid to the employees of the DP "Rayduga Construction Plant". Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Kistion, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Head of the Cerkas District State Administration for Disengagement of Medium-term and Current Repair of Roads of General Use within the Cherkas Region in 2016. Groups of National Deputies (Krywenka, Kishkara, Rudik) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal possession of the former Kodadakka Kryivk region, Kyiv region. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the payment of debts from civil servants in the Vinicki region for the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian State Service Act of December 10, 2015. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of a village of the city type Turbów building, transport and property of the Turbiv Local Municipal Fire Department for the purpose of ensuring proper conditions for warning of emergencies. Igor Alekseyev to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Elimination of Accidents of Road Traffic in the General Use of Local Value Derazny - Bozykowci (through Zyankovci - Radyanské). Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the Legality of the Officials of the Ukrainian State Agricultural Inspectorate, in the examination of MP’s request No.11/10-1300 from December 25, 2015. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl Road Service, head of the Chernobyl State Administration for the measures to complete the capital repair of the road by connecting the village of Plaska to the village of Lustun in the region of Czerniewice. John Ribak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, Head of the Provincial District State Administration of the Chernivecko Region, on the change of the status of the roadway O26003, the village of Beregomet in the Chernivecki region. Andrija Vadaturski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on issues related to the development of the allocated funds for the repair of the Mikolai region's road and the abuse of the leadership of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine and its controlled Motorways Service in the Mikolaiiv region. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the solution of the issue of providing school textbooks for students in the 4th and 7th classes of public schools. Paul Dzublik to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for conducting a comprehensive inspection of the Directorate for the Protection, Use and Management of Water Bioresources and Fisheries Regulations in the Žitomir region. Groups of National Deputies (Crivenka, Matheichenko, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the head of the Corstosian District State Administration of the district of Kupriyczuk. Groups of National Deputies (Kulka, Chernenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to approve changes before the appointment of academic scholarships to students (teachers) in accordance with the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Hennady Krivoshei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of DP Artemsil. The Gennady of Krivoshei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the field of technical regulation. Jury Bublika to the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for War Veterans and participants in an antiterrorist operation to ensure proper respect for the dead military personnel involved in an antiterrorist operation that fully reflects the circumstances on the memorial boards placed on them. Alexander Suprunenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital renovation of the Kyiv Mechanic Technology College dormitory. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the issues raised in Kharkiv in the creation of the OSBB. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the Kharkiv National Technical University of Agriculture of Kharkiv to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the requirements of the law on the establishment of State secretaries of ministries. Eduard Matviychuk to the Odessa District Council for Human Rights of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa District Public Administration on the need to review the need for a repeat collective appeal from the initiative group of more than 1.5 thousand residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live in houses 50-58 on the street of the Academy of King's and the houses next to them to verify the legality of the planning and construction of the instigation area, starting from 2002 onwards, the destruction of the green zone of the microregion at the address: Odessa, the Academica Kralova Street, 56A. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on the need to take effective measures to address the repeat collective appeal of residents of the residential-building cooperative "Youth - 2" to House 98 on the Street of the Academic Royal and collective address of residents of the house number 57 on the street of the Academy of William Kyiv district of Odessa on a comprehensive solution to the security issue of the elevator industry in 2016. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for not allowing the illegal ownership of the Teaka swimming pool in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev and for the restoration of its functioning. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the non-adoption of illegal detailed territorial plans that run counter to the current General Plan of Kiev and the current legislation. Victor Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-use of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's actions regarding the proper conduct of the Register of Electronic Addresss of Government Authorities, their officials and officials, as well as the refusal to accept an electronic appeal. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the investigation of situations of possible abuse of power or service, as well as the immoral conduct of officials of the National Police Department in the Lviv region in relation to members of the Lviv police. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, regarding the renewal of the position of illegally dismissed employee. Sergey Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on corruption schemes for the theft of state funds in the purchase of jobs, services, equipment at higher prices by UDP firm Ukrhimtransamak. Sergey Rybalka to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the possible illegal introduction of information into the single state register of legal persons, individuals of entrepreneurs and public formations of the new head of the FH "DAR". Sergey Rybalka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the possible visual observation of co-workers by the Dnipropetrov Regional Organization of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška and the Office of the Dnipropetrov Regional Organization of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. We finished reading the queries. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. At 12 o'clock, 30 minutes, we'll be back in the "Variance" section.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'm asking you to take a seat so that you can sign up for performances at the Miscellaneous. Are you ready for the recording? Please hold the recording. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Irina Ephraim, People's Front. People's Deputy Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear friends. Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. My address is with Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. Yuri Vitaliovich, there's a problem in Volina. I have already addressed this rostrum on many occasions. 15th Brigade, she's 14th. The second year, they're killing brigade fighters, accusing them of desertion, even though they're not deserters in any way -- I say that, my colleagues say that, all of the bullies who are relatives, children, parents of our fighters. Because everyone knows the time when the brigade was on Donbas, the circumstances in which it was dumped by commanders, the weapons, and so on. In May, your mission was to close all cases called desertion, soldiers, heroic soldiers of the 51st Brigade. Some progress has been made in this regard. Unfortunately, however, the Military Prosecutor's Office of the Zaporozhye Garrison is not fulfilling your orders and continues to abuse our fighters. Today, in Kiev, representatives of our brigade, were so happy. Azova, Donbasu, Idaru, they're taking care of the D.A. They were accepted today by your deputy, Mr Storobuk. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I ask you to give a clear and unequivocal commission: to stop the abuse of our fighters. That's enough! Well, who needs that Mathios needs or anyone else's blood from our fighters, simple boys? This page needs to be rewinded. I'm asking you very much, you've taken these fighters personally, you know the point of the matter. Let's put a dot and stop the 51st Brigade's persecution. I hope so, and there are not a dozen people in favor of the Ukrainian state in Donbas who hope for your position. So I'm asking you a lot: immediately, literally next week, we need to -- we're going to come to you guys, we're going to show you, we're going to tell you all the information, but let's make a final decision together -- stop the abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u55	People’s deputies Koseljev and Linko gave the floor to the national deputy Victor Halasyuk, the Radical Party. May I have your six minutes, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! What is the purpose of any reform? The real goal of reforms is to ensure that everyone has a normal life in the country, so that everyone has a job, is able, at the expense of money, not only to pay for a utility and buy food, but to teach their children, to treat their parents and to look to the future with confidence and optimism. What does it take? This requires that there be a strong economy in the country, a self-produced economy, so that entrepreneurs don't run out of the country, but that they create their own production here, they pay taxes here, they fill the country's budget to finance both medicine and education and defence, and all aspects of the country's life. Is such a policy being pursued today by the government? No, it's not. Let me give you some specific examples. You and I have twice adopted a two-pronged, strategically important metallurgical law of 3868 in this room to ensure that all Ukrainian metallurgical enterprises produce raw materials, sell them for dollars, sell them for euros abroad, so that they don't have to acquire new IMF loans so that the bracelet is stable and the prices in stores don't go up. This law, already signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, is addressed to the Presidential Administration. However, despite the deadline set by the Constitution for the signing of the law, the law has not yet been signed or published. On occasion, I am addressing the President of Ukraine, the President's Administration. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, please pay attention, because Ukrainian metallurgy is a quarter of the Ukrainian industry and a quarter of the Ukrainian exports that depend on the bracelet depend on the prices. Another visual example. A moratorium on the export of roundwood. You and I have passed this law in this room. I'm very grateful to all the deputies who support this radical party initiative, because it's not just about rebuilding your own furniture industry, paper industry, creating new productions. It's about changing the country's economy. To move from that beggarry that we have today, taking a forest-rounder abroad for no price instead of making furniture; exporting today metal scrape for no price instead of making a machine in Ukraine ready to produce; taking out the ore today, taking out the grain instead of making pasta instead of in Italy they were made of ours. From our seed to the hands of Ukrainians who did not find work in their own country. We passed this law, it's been in force for seven months. And what do we learn? That the government today is proposing to repeal this Law on the Moratorium for the Export of the Roundwood Forest, so that the Ukrainian wood will go abroad again at no cost, the Ukrainians will be out of work. And the government says they need this to get 600 million Euro credit from the European Union. So I have a question: is it the prospect of a future ecological country or is it worth restoring Ukrainian industry and jobs within a country of any foreign loan, even a grant, a gift, anything. No, it's not. The Ukrainian authorities have no right to assume that. That's why we're with you, Parliament, we're the last of us here, and if we assume the distinction between this strategically important law, then, sin is our price at all, there's no point in a parliament that is incapable of defending national economic interest. This law in 7 months of his work, he's already shown plus export, plus production, plus taxes on the budget, plus jobs, it's tens and tens of millions of dollars and a euro of investments that have already entered the country. And what does the government offer today? For that loan to sell investors' trust, to give up their own industry, no, not once more. The Radical Party faction, in principle, insists that the future of the country and the European level of prosperity are possible only through the development and support of its own production, its own industry, its own enterprise. Is that the way the government operates today? No, it's not. So our task with you, as the Ukrainian Parliament, is to change, force the government to change the model of the country's economy, to move from the begging that we have today, to building a normal product economy. We have to adopt Bill 3872 the following week on land tax freezes, save a number of engineering and other manufacturing enterprises in the country that have received disproportionate taxes today because these taxes are linked to inflation. It's absolute idiocy, we have to cancel it legislatively. Adopt industrial park legislation to provide incentives for entry into Ukraine so that we are competitive compared to Turkey, Poland, Slovakia. An export credit agency to sell the world not grain and forest round, but to sell Anton's planes, sell cars, sell other products of our industry. So the fundamental position of the Radical Party faction is to develop its own industry and raise social standards in the country. And I urge all parliamentarians to support such Ukrainian policies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u57	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the national deputy, Ednak, who has been given the word of the national deputy, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u58	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! I want to say that the problems in the forest sector, although partially solved by the moratorium on the export of unprocessed wood, are really helping our woodworking industry, but the problems in the field are not shared anywhere. And unfortunately, I have to continue to criticize the government, which I voted for, in particular, a few months ago. Because we now see the active actions of the Henprocuratorium on the discovery of corruption schemes in Volin, in Lviv, in Bukovin on the export of unprocessed wood and processed wood, but that doesn't indicate a fight against corruption. This indicates the presence of systemic corruption in the field. This indicates that more than two years after the Dignity Revolution, no step has been taken to eradicate this corruption. The Coalition Agreement clearly states that the government must carry out institutional reform of forest management. We should separate from the State Agency the possibility of manually managing every forest and stealing money from there. We have to take control of the State because now that there's an illegal link in one or the other woods, the same State Department is sending an inspection there, and they're making arrangements. We're never going to fight systematic corruption in an organized criminal administration called the State Agency, if we're going to go fishing somewhere like this, we're going to do sports fishing in fact, and there's still corruption up there, and the system's not going to change. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to initiate the creation of a working group based on the Cabinet of Ministers for the development and implementation of a systematic institutional reform to implement the coalition agreement. And I'd like to add that we're with you guys, we're in Kiev. Kiev has the Ministry of Environmental Policy. Kiev has the main office of eco-inspection. In Kiev, there is the National Natural Park "Golosiowski", which is debasingly debasing. Bull's on the Capital Road, part of the Golosiovsky National Park: cut trees, a complex, a gas station, and a car complex are being built. Kyivrada, the Henprocurator's Office is not working. Law enforcement doesn't work. We have under our noses where the main offices of the public authorities are located, there's a lot of natural-intelligence fund. We have to stop this. Our committee has already turned to the law enforcement agencies. I also apply to eco-inspection, to the Ministry of Profiles, to control this situation, and not to allow the depository of our heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u59	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Rybalka, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I would like to point out that today the raid has taken over the entire country. It is covered by law enforcement authorities and authorities of all levels. We continue to be approached by people who take their property from their laws. Among them is a farmer from the village of Pázna Novomoskovsky, in Dnipropetrovště, Dmitry Daradoda. Right now, he's trying to defend his own land, which, through document manipulation, the raiders want to take over. This man's father was a co-owner and head of the Dar farm, and he died recently. After his father’s death, Dmitri Daradod was the only heir to the farm. Later, he was offered a farm, and former SBU employee Ivan Bilachenko, then MP Mikola Seleznów, head of the Novomoskov Reservoir Paul Selichov. They did so on someone’s own behalf. But by September 3, this year, the perpetrators had falsified the documents and altered the head of the farm, and had submitted the data to the Register of Legal Persons. Such changes to the State Register in the Odessa region of Ms. Svetlana Juryivna were made to the farm farm documents "Dar". Imagine, after prolonged pressure on him, the farmer learned that he no longer owns his share of the farm. The physical conquest of the earth and its possessions remained a matter of time. There are countless incidents of this type throughout the country. And especially in the Novomoskov region of the Dnipropetrov region. For example, some years ago, 5,000 acres [5,000 ha] of land was stolen from a group of farmers. The perpetrators formed 300 farms. Deceptive people have been trying for months to come to the truth. The D.A. is deliberately stopping the investigation. A radical party led by our leader, Oleg Lášk, already visited the district attorney’s office in February of this year, demanding that we stop the claim and investigate the case immediately. But people still cannot achieve justice. In addition, there was a raid on the Hmelničina during the days of the 2001 raid on the Ukrainian company, where 3,000 workers work. The capture scheme is traditional: falsifying company owners' signatures, changing registers. Such an exercise of authority is astounding. It is not even possible to imagine that this could happen in a democratic state. Physical enterprises from different parts of Ukraine understand that this can happen to any enterprise today. The Radical Party requires immediate intervention from the prosecutors and the police. Criminals who commit adultery by falsifying documents must bear criminal responsibility. Dear Chairman! Please consider my request to the Attorney General Yuri Lucenk and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u61	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Mishchenka, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u62	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina, 98 district. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The past government has urged our citizens to do everything possible to save on gas, electricity. Our citizens listened. First of all, they bought new gas boilers in the countryside to reduce the cost of their utility bills. What's happening now? Right then, the government said that such systems should be put in place. But the person who bought this gas boiler can't put it. Because the Ministry of Energy's orders to set it up, or remove the old one, or two hooks to unwind and put in a new one, you have to make projects, pay thousands for them, go through more than one day of mistrust, and then you get involved. Now, in the fall, they're massively shutting down our citizens, sealing off our citizens from gas supplies for the reasons that when those orders weren't used to exist, these citizens turned away. Thanks to the gas industries that the inspectors came and put up without any projects this gas equipment, they're asking now. And now we need a project. Until you do the project, you won't have any gas. Why is it so late in the fall? And because they know there's gonna be a hot season in a month, they're gonna come in and pay. What did they do? And it's all over the country. I've got a firm in Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, a private firm run by the wife of the gas station manager, that all the projects in this district are only the Transyaslav gas distribution company, that's the Kivoblgazu branch. That's it. It's called Sigma. So when these gas inspectors come to a person, they all send and give a receipt for a payment named in this office. It is clear that the new corrupt scheme introduced by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy is being implemented. In addition, 60 bracelets are collected from each house for not even climbing into the chimney. "Give me a hint that you've got it all. Give me 60 bucks for what you're doing." And this whole issue concerns only one order from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. And that's why I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u63	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u64	And so I call on the Minister of Fuel and Energy to take care of the 285, which, in a wild flower, has blossomed this corruption. Because the successor, if he doesn't figure it out, because three months ago I wrote about it, will be my next decision on his resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u65	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy Anton Kisse, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u66	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues in the Hall today, dear voters! I would like to highlight my statement briefly on some of the issues that have taken place in the southern Donetsk region of Bessarabia. Two weeks ago, a tragic event took place in the village of Loščinovka Ishmailsky region. And throughout this period, we have been seeing the mass of information in a variety of ways: the travel of different officials to learn about the problems that there are also information messages after that. But the question is: Did they know about the problem that has existed in this village for three years and in general in the Ishmael region? Have the problems related to the life of the Ishmael region and the village of Loščinovka been addressed? In order not to take the time, I will say that they knew that, literally in May of this year, there was an assembly of citizens, where Mrs. Stoykov, Head of the District Public Administration, was invited. Where the people of the village expressed the problems they were concerned about, they were quite much discussed, in the words of the villagers. But two weeks from now, there was no solution. There have been meetings with various district officials, complaints, appeals, but no response. And today, that conflict, that tragedy, is trying to translate into that it's only those people who live there who are responsible. Few attempts have been made to translate the situation into an inter-national conflict, which is not there. There's just a criminal case. There's issues related to drug trafficking. I just want to ask you, how would every resident react if his neighbor had been dealing drugs for three years? I appeal to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, to establish a special commission to deal with these issues and to consider this issue at a meeting of the PRSP. Because this is not the first case in Odessa County, the village of Petrovka, today the villages are generally alarmed. Only an objective investigation, just taking concrete measures, and really needs to be able to stabilize the situation. Finally, we have no one in the State dealing with issues related to ethnic policy. We've abolished the structure and we have the fruits, the negative fruits, I want that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u67	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the national deputy Borislav Berezu, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u68	Good afternoon! I'm forced to appear here today in front of an almost empty hall, but I know the Ukrainians can hear me. I want to draw attention to what's happening in Kiev right now is a very big problem, it's almost a building block. Why? Look at what was happening on Saint George's Lane, 2, when the aunts, when the locals, when anyone was fighting, and the cops were standing and waiting for it to end. See what happened in Krukovština, where, according to a report by the Kyiv Prosecutor’s Office, the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office, it was found that the murder of a person in the seizure of an object occurred as a result of the indifference of the police and their failure to perform their duties. Look at what is now being done on Hashek, 24, where Vojciekhovsky's people are now taking over the building. The same Wojciechowski, who was detained, was then put in a bet, and he is walking somewhere. But his people are working. They're holding down buildings, and they're doing it with aunts. Actually, aunts are almost like, you know, official gang-forming. We're used to what they are. And yesterday was a very interesting thing. Moskovska’s Court of Appeal, 8 — perhaps so. There will be a gap, at Moscow's address, 8 made a decision and cancelled Kiev's intentions to have a square in Pechersk. Why? Because this place is very attractive to some of this Mikitasha's builders. This is the man who's sitting with us in this room right now. No, he doesn't, but he has a document that he's a national deputy, a national electorate. But he's gone! And what did Mikitas begin to do? Yes, he began lobbying for the return of his playgrounds. Those areas where laws are broken, those areas where there are no documents. But he doesn't care, he's now in power. Why did he buy votes in the Chernigow region? Why? To answer your questions. Dear Ukrainians, I'm asking you to look at this: now that Mikitas is coming into the session room, they're deciding their questions. You sell your votes, and do not then try to be surprised to ask such deputies: Why do they not respond to social calls? Because you sold your votes. And secondly, I'm officially calling on the Ministry Minister to find out what's going on right now with the building nightmare in Kiev and give instructions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u69	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u70	And gave orders to the police, to do their job, not to wait for the lady to kill the Chianas. Because if they didn't get theirs after the Dignity Revolution, that's probably why they're working for their hires now that's barely changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u71	Thank you. You're welcome. Since there is no National Deputy Rosenblatt in the Hall, I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Lozov, who was given the word Lensky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u72	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I have a simple question for Parliament, for the President, for the government, for Ukrainian society. How many more can and how many more times it takes to strike down personnel assignments in order to stop demeaning the Ukrainians. When, with all due respect to citizens of other countries, to people of another faith, to other blood, Ukraine is a very hospitable land where all people should be well, but why do we have gastrolers coming to us for wages, rolling everything down, ruining everything, then moving back and not finding a job for the Ukrainian? Among the tens of millions of Ukrainians, is there no one to appoint as head of the National Police? And so on. A very revealing moment, one of the key reforms of the state is the creation of the National Police. Nailed it. With all due respect for fraternal sunny Georgia, which, like us, suffers from Moscow aggression and has suffered the pain that we are experiencing, but how fashionable is it to lead reformers from Georgia who then enter? They're basically after me at least a flood. We had the head of Internal Security, Gog Grigalashvili. The same Grigalashvili who ran the Tbilisi Police Department when there were bloody riots of opposition in 2011 when people died. He was so in control of internal security that the whole mob was in the police force, so he stayed with the police. The former Minister of Education and Science of Georgia, Mrs. Hatiya Decanoidze, was responsible for the reform of the National Police almost a year ago. Reform's down. The increase in crime is catastrophic. Especially in the Odessa region. Look who's interested, published in social media by colleague Igor Mosiyczuk, about the increase in crime in the Odessa region, which was published on the Council of Legislative Protection Council's profile committee. He manages Lordipanidze, brought in by Saakashvili, who, for government money, goes to the taxpayers' money with a dozen special guards named Falcon. And a month ago at a meeting where the leadership of the National Police was presented, when they heard the Ukrainian language, they said, "I don't understand what you're talking about. Speak to me in a language which I understand." How long will these humiliations last? And how many more decanoids are going to take down the police, turning it into an unknown thing. The situation in Lake Curve. We've all seen that "my new police" is sorry, it's my new garbage people who kill, torture, humiliate people, abuse them. The situation under the Obolonian Reissance. I'd like to give you 10 seconds to finish. The situation under the Obolenic Reissance, where Decanoidze personally promised me and my fellow Mosiychuk that they would not apply force to humans. I'm out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u73	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u74	The situation is in Kharkiv. When "my new police" so-called at a crazy speed is pushing people, and no one is being punished. The situation under the Pecher Reysud when an attack was committed, including a number of national MPs, including me in the presence of armed, armed members of the National Police -- they are standing and watching -- is still uninvestigated, even though the Decanoode has personally promised. How many more of those humiliations can the Ukrainians do? And for what? Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u75	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u76	Andrew Šinkovic, 189th constituency, Hmelničina. Honorable colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people. In my brief presentation, I would like to draw attention to the relationship of landowners of peasants and those who rent the land, process and allow themselves to say, because I have a reason to abuse those people who leased their pie. I speak, dear friends, on behalf of the rights association of the landowners of the Hmielnicke District. What are we seeing today? First. In a large part of the village, there are no leases and they do not know what is written in those contracts. The other one. Unfortunately, those with whom they have insufficient legal literacy, education and, rather, no explanatory work on the rights of landowners. In those contracts that are signed in the majority part, it is primarily in the interests of, of course, the tenants and no rights are foreseen and not stipulated in these treaties, which, without the peasants' knowledge, continue these contracts, their term. But I would like to inform all the peasants who are hearing me today from this well-respected rostrum of the Supreme Council. The landowner has the right to break the contract at any time, because he owns the land that the state justly gave him. Today, peasants in the village of Mazka Prilutsky district of Chernigiv region are fighting for their rights, where without their knowledge T.O.T. "Croc" extended the agreement, forged the signatures, the lease agreement, and unfortunately, the law enforcement officers do not respond to people in their defense. Today, he continues to do what he has always done and does, but does not do an extremely important thing; it is an explanatory work; today, a peasant must hear all the options he can put in the place of an unscrupulous tenant. Unfortunately, when he comes to the Dergeokadastr, all he has to do is draw a figure that has to be paid for quickly, until we, honourable fellow members of the people's MPs, adopt an extremely important bill in the second reading -- it's the right of the village councils to distribute land outside the population. And I urge us to adopt this bill as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u77	Thank you. Drauk Sergey is invited to attend. He's not in the hall, is he? Is that right? Excuse me. You're from the rostrum, aren't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u78	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the misuse of State property. If you know, in 2012, the government of Azarov donated about 5 billion dollars to the agricultural rights of gas distribution systems. This is Decree No. 770 of August 20, 12. On April 9, 2015, the Supreme Council passed the Natural Gas Market Act, which took effect on October 1st of the same year. And I finally finally put a dot on the possibility of using private government assets, gas distribution systems on the right of knowledge. Thanks to the initiative of National Deputy Xenjuk to the right of the part of article 37 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which is to be completed by paragraph: "The gas distribution systems owned by the State cannot be used by the operator of the gas distribution system on the right of knowledge, except in cases where such operator belongs to the economic operators of the State sector." At the same time, despite the adoption of the law, state gas distribution systems are still in the grip of private fraud, in free use, in accordance with contracts made, by the way, in the days of still Azarov. The question is, Why does the State continue to allow free use of its own distribution systems? Do you know how much the state, in the person of its respective organs, loses its own inaction? Yes, to date, the gas distribution system entities that are owned by the State use 41 entities, 40 of which are not part of the public sector of the economy. In view of the fact that the inventory of gas distribution systems owned by the State in 2015 shows that the residual value of this property is more than 4.5 billion dollars. The loss of the state annually is about 450 million. I'm informing you that I, as a national deputy on March 22, 16th, addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yatsenuk, for the delay in the implementation of article 37. Arsenija Petrovich, Prime Minister of Ukraine, has repeatedly been commissioned by the relevant central authorities of the executive branch, first of all the Mino-Economy to address this issue. To this day, however, this question has not been resolved. Are we so rich that we don't need any extra money in the government budget? Could the interests of private fraud be higher than the interests of the State? I'm calling on the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, give your subjects an immediate order to the government regarding the transition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u79	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u80	I'm calling on the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, give your subordinates immediate notice to submit a draft decree to the government regarding the payment of the use of state gas distribution systems for your signature. And immediately submit this project to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please consider my statement as a request to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine of Cuba. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u81	Thank you. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u82	Thank you. My short talk today about the rebirth of the People's Movement, and it's about what we celebrated last night as a party of the 27th anniversary. A party that actually touches the restoration of the statehood of the Ukrainian nation. A party that has formed an ideological base with its former leader in order for a party structure, including, to live honestly, without being separated from the needs of society, to live in the development of that state, to live by its victories. Today we are talking about the restoration of the People's Movement, the attempt to join the mass, the first mass party in Ukraine, as many honest and decent people as possible. The demands of the People’s Movement are only three. They're simple enough and understood by everyone. This is a profession of professionalism, Ukrainian concentration, and uncompromisingness. Today, the process of rebirth is taking place at a constant and clear pace. About 500 people join the National Movement of Ukraine each month, and we are happy to welcome these people into our ranks. We have set ourselves a series of concrete reforms to support the party. And in particular, it's a reform of decentralization. We support so much that it seems that the leaders of the united communities are members of the People’s Movement. It is heartwarming that in the Kostopil region, the last of the victories in the Plains region, the leader of the united community became a member of the People’s Movement. More than half of the members of the United Community’s MPs are also members of the People’s Movement. Of all of them, welcome! Specific priorities are defined by the policy. This includes the safety of road traffic, which is being bypassed by Parliament, and more people are being killed on Ukraine’s roads today than in war. There's a specific complex program, developed by Igor Didenko of Self-Help, who said in an extremely concise manner that the government has to do in order to overcome the problems on the Ukrainian roads. Today, the People’s Movement is talking about reforming sports. Because we know what problems we have with the results of both the Olympics and the development of mass sport. There's a specific legal act that will allow you to live in the field of sports as well as the entire market economy, as well as everything, not under Communist rules, but according to the requirements of today. I'll thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Logwinsky Georgi Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u84	Logan's Georgi Volodymyrovich, faction of the People's Front, representative of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear friends, every day we find that our nation slows down the movement towards Euro-Inclusion and every day we hear less and less questions about the occupation of Crimea and other territories. In recent polls, society has said that there are more important tasks than bribery, rather than the question of Crimea and other matters. I'm very sad about that because people don't realize that this is the way that our nation develops. When our troubles began, they began from the moment our territory was taken into the Crimea. And the return of our territories and our citizens can only be when Crimea is under our control. That's understandable. But the question is, what are we doing for this, what are the developments? I would like to point out that in recent times many so-called political tourists from various countries, including Europe and France, have been on their way to the Crimea at the invitation of the Russian Federation, saying that there is no human rights violation, no Crimean Tatar is under the pressure of criminal power. But what is it? Crime is our territory. According to the laws of our state, to the criminal legislation of our state, their actions in our territory are criminal, they cross the border without permission, that is, actually illegal. For these actions, our legislation provides for criminal responsibility. And until now, even though I have personally applied to the Attorney General's Office, open criminal conduct, for some reason we don't have the determination of those "political tourists" to bring criminal responsibility. Why? But we should always know the consequences. The results are very simple. In the near future, elections will be held in Ukraine’s Crimea territory, illegal elections in the Russian Federation, and other observers from other countries will go there. And we're just gonna keep our mouths shut? No, it's not. I call upon all the authorities, the judicial branch of power, the Ukrainian law enforcement system: we protect our territory, we protect our citizens, we demand that any violator of the law, no matter what nationality he has, must bear full criminal responsibility. It's not just our territory, it's our nation's protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u85	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u86	Protecting our Ukraine. Therefore, only the way of developing the economic European development of the state is when everyone is equal before the law. It's when we work and say that we will personally, with our self-respect, protect our citizens and our territory and respect those people who are still there. [[Crimean Tatar expression]] As long as we fight for Crimea, it remains Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u87	Bogdan Matkovsky conveys the word to the Good House.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u88	Good afternoon, distinguished presiding, Ukrainian people! We are representatives of the People's Control political party: Dmitri Dobrodomov, Bogdan Matkovsky, Oleg Musei and Andri Antonistak -- we would like to react to the cynical and manipulative innuendo that some MPs from the People's Front made against our political power yesterday. There are two reasons why the People's Control is in democratic opposition, along with the Fatherland, and the Freedom to the present-day power. In principle, we are struggling with corruption and the pillaging of the war - torn state today, the counter is in economic collapse, which is in social distress. Clearly, this is not like the leaders of the People's Front, who have been leading this country for two years under the leadership of the Yatzenuk, they don't like it. The second reason is the redistribution between the old Janukovich-mode oligarchs and the new corruptionists of those assets and the corruption schemes that they are. When they had their arrangements, they were fine, including the Kremlin's Inter Channel. [[B in m in s a l in]] They were fine. The People's Front was a ten-minute release by Prime Minister Yatsenuk, who was there before April, and they were fine. And that's why Opoblok did not vote in favour of their contractors for the resignation of Yatsenuk. When they did not share something today, they do their own work. I am not addressing the leaders of the People's Front, and I am addressing the MPs of the People's Front faction, whom I personally respect. I'm not the only one representing our party in Parliament. We have polytradics and we don't have a party of leadership. There is Oleg Musey, chief physician of Maidan, is Bogdan Matkovsky, your brother through Maidan and ATO, Andrew Antonishtak, centurion of Midan and he is ATOshnik, who was recently rewarded with a high reward. Friends, you are the most trusted society today. And don't kill the wedge, and don't create chaos. Do not do what you do today by calling on Parliament not to engage in populism and distracting attention from important social problems. I call on you to work constructively. In our party, the vast majority of volunteers and attachés, our party, People Control, came out of the community, means all the votes and all the support can be analyzed by anyone. And we will continue to work for the good of Ukraine, for the defense of the country, for what we have done. And stop your cheap insinuations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u89	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the words of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanko, who is not a factionist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u90	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! First of all, I'd like to go to the government with a question that concerns probably each of us, and let you know that we had a project called the Air Express, according to which the Chinese Import and Export Bank gave us 372 million dollars, and as a result of this project, the state of Ukraine lost 100 million dollars, of which 50 million were recalculated under the Yanukovich regime and were stolen, and another 50 million dollars the government of Groisman is paying as a guarantee to the government for failing to execute this contract. That means the state budget has lost over $100 million, and in the "dry balance," we don't have any air express, or any other express. Yesterday we saw and heard that the Attorney General's Office had reported that she had arrested one of the managers of the surrounding areas of Ljovczyn, Yanuković, Kaskov, who was in charge of all of this. And we demand that the government answer the question: how did it happen that in two years we lost this contract -- $372 million, how did it happen, that in the end we have neither the Air Express nor the $100 million from the State Budget? We demand as a political party "Will" to stop such a policy, stop the politics of incompetence, robbery, looting the State Budget, and suggest that we take the first steps, in our view, that we should do. First, it is to propose a clear infrastructure plan for Ukraine to be restored after the war. This infrastructure has to provide for modern roads, airports, tunnels, bridges, so that the funds we're going to receive from our international donors for the reconstruction of the country go to the creation of tens, hundreds of thousands of jobs, and so that we can show our investors where we're going to invest these costs. Secondly, we are in favour of a temporary ban on privatization until we have a steady increase of 10 percent of GDP in order not to waste our property, which is still in state property. We demand tax reform and budgeting on the basis of a new tax reform, namely: 10 per cent of the income tax, 20 per cent of the EU, 15 per cent of the value added tax and 15 per cent of the income tax paid on dividends. We think that this is the only option that will allow us to get out of the shadows, and only this option of tax reform and budgeting on this basis will allow us to actually start moving next year. Move the economy out of the crisis. We also demand that the issue be resolved from tariffs, that we stop robbing our own people and set or the only price is 5,000 100 dollars, or. The only price per thousand meters of cubic, or two different prices, is the government's wish. We demand these actions immediately and do not pretend that nothing is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u91	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u92	We demand that these issues be addressed first and that the issue of tariffs, the question of covering corruption, the question of curbing reforms be addressed in itself. We demand direct and practical action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Kirsch, the People's Front Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the distinguished people of Ukraine, the distinguished creditors and creditors! First of all, as far as the previous speech is concerned, I ask the tax committee to bring this idea of bets and guarantee my personal support. But now I want to tell you a whole different story about the terrible situation that accompanied the agony of the Mikhailski Bank. At the same time, please consider my application to the prosecution. Because the most terrible thing in this story is that in the agony of the Mikhail Bank and the "battle" that took place with regard to the investors, the state took part in the person of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Few agreements, or contracts, were made on the day that the State Administration had already entered into, that is, the contract was concluded the day before the bank’s liquidation. But little of this, the deal was made, as you can see, in a tiny little font, not on behalf of the bank itself, but on behalf of some left-wing LTD, half-dead one you can't find anymore. And if even on behalf of the bank, the party in this agreement, in this agreement, was the so-called customer involvement authority, not the head of a bank that was not responsible for anything. But the most common, most common type of agreement was that on the same day that the deal was made, there was an improvement in the conditions for investors. And there was such a saying that "the contributor is familiar with article 26 of the Deposit Guarantee Act. The whole point is that the 26th article says that if conditions were improved, and all contracts, all contracts were just to improve conditions, the Deposit Guarantee Fund no longer guarantees anything, i.e., in advance knowing that they would not pay back, they provided no investors, but they provided a State Deposit Guarantee Fund, i.e. they made arrangements to ensure that the Deposit Guarantee Fund was not responsible for anything. What I'm concluding is that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is involved in this robbery of the people, because the treaty itself provided everything for him not to answer for anything, whether in any kind of agreement, or in those agreements that the Left Society had made, and in that agreement that was responsible for the involvement of the customers, and in that agreement where the terms of the contract were renewed on the same day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u95	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u96	I think the Deposit Guarantee Fund knew that in advance. And once again, I would like you to consider my statement as a request to the prosecutor's office, because Nazibank and the Deposit Guarantee Fund are already dropping off creditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u97	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenck, who is non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u98	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, a new stage in Parliament's work has begun, a new parliamentary session has begun. Of course, we're still in a semi-legitimate state, because we still don't know exactly if there's a coalition in Parliament at all that goes into this coalition. We still don't understand what's going on with those key bills that this Parliament is actually going to adopt. And I'd like to remind you of some of them today, if that's possible. First of all, I would like to remind you of the issue that concerns the Ukrainian communities, because without exception the political forces that are in Parliament today, they promised before the elections that they would finally do so. The first reading of the changes to the Constitution on the elimination of parliamentary immunity has been voted upon. Unfortunately, only the MP, without the president's, the judge's, but at least so. And there is already a decision by the Constitutional Court that they comply with the Constitution and can be accepted as a whole. And they don't vote. I am convinced that Parliament must do so, and that it must finally do so. And I urge the leadership of the Supreme Council to put to the vote as a whole. And then let every MP explain why he doesn't vote, for example, why he suddenly disappears on that day, he's not there. Then let all the Ukrainians see who lied and who is ready to answer for what they have said. The same applies to the new Law on Parliamentary Elections. You know that it was an obligation under the coalition agreement in the first quarter of the work of this parliament to resolve this issue. We see that it has been two years since the work of this Parliament, and this issue is not resolved. And what's going to happen next is that there's less chance that this is going to be resolved. And the amendments to the Elections Act are a key situation and it is a key opportunity, indeed, to get a new quality of parliament in the future. And I also urge Parliament to pay attention to this right now and urgently adopt a new law on parliamentary elections, where lists would be open, where the majority system would be cancelled. Although I am a major, I realize that only a proportional system with open lists will give real updates and a new quality to the Supreme Council. I would like to say that we still have a great deal of obligations that this Parliament has to carry out. But if they're not done today, if we're still in an illegal situation with an unknown coalition that doesn't exist, and on my direct questions, direct questions tell me that they can't answer whether we have a coalition or who's involved, then such a parliament will finally lose its meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u99	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vitali Korchik. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u100	Dear friends! I'm afraid I haven't been able to ask the Minister of Social Policy, Alexander Reva, about the monetaryization of benefits for the population, particularly in transport. I want to draw your attention to this question, because it comes from year to year. He's got a few problems. The benefits are paid. They are sometimes overlooked by providers of services. It's very difficult to track down the accounting of an industrious passenger. Public and municipal transport is not developing at all and is constantly in a state of grant. And it's over. Let's take a simple example. For example, a native grandmother almost never lived in a village. Never saw that subway train, and the resident of the capital enjoys the right to travel free of charge almost every day. I think it's necessary to reform the monetaryization of the benefits, where everyone can get a specific amount of money from the State and spend it on their own judgment, either on transportation or on the purchase of goods. Social Policy Minister Alexander Reva observed the drafting of a cabinet for such a bill on the monetaryization of the benefits. In this regard, I am addressing, and I ask you to consider this as my parliamentary request, to the Minister of Social Policy, Alexander Reva, when will this bill be tabled for Parliament's consideration? In view of the fact that we are about to receive a bill on Ukraine’s state budget, are the benefits foreseen for the monetaryisation for 2017? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u101	Thank you. Welcome to the word of Vladimir Parasuk, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u102	Thank you. I want to break my speech into three parts. The first part will refer to the incident that took place last night. Lvov police detained Lviv police chief of the Lviv District Police Department of Mikola Gladyuk. He was in a desperate state and refused to pass a drug test on the city. And in the words of the witnesses, an administrative protocol was drawn up under article 130. After that, he went to the hospital and gave himself information that he was sober. The main thing is that this person came back from an attestation that he successfully passed. So we can figure out who's still in law enforcement right now. I don't mean to say it's all gone. You just have to look more closely at those people who are being tested. He says he wasn't in charge. But I'm offering him an experiment. Come on, Mr. Mikola, if you see this performance, we're going on a lie detector, I'm a national MP, you're a police officer, and they're asking us simple questions. And then society will understand who is telling the truth, who is not. Because right now, no one believes you. The second part of my introduction will be about road repair. You know, it's a feeling that the weather can be determined by stealthodora. Only if it has to rain will they leave to make our highways. It's just a shame. And we just throw thousands of dollars of taxpayers into the ground. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to end it at last. Nobody needs a business that doesn't do anything but wash away money. And now, colleagues, if you'll have a moment of your attention, everyone who's left here. I want to talk to you about the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a double registration. You know how it happens. Passing cards, registering for each other. And what's more and more offensive is that representatives like Wilkul, who shows up here once a month (which is not there right now, I'm just showing him), he's got 80 percent of the attendance in the upper room, and he's got 42 percent in writing. Then perhaps I would ask the Supreme Council, Mr. Andrey, who would have, Mrs. Oksana, eliminated this disgraceful electronic registration! So that we can finally start to objectively show people how many national deputies enter the hall, how many votes they vote. And that's the way to fight buttonage. I'll ask ten, well, a little bit more than ten seconds. He wanted to thank Andreya Parbia, he's not here right now, and he explained to me why he ran away from Time. It's not the Supreme Council's fault, it's the prosecution's fault, and it's the prosecution's fault that says we don't get together, and they didn't even file an application to remove the inviolability and bring Chaus to justice. I thank Andrea for just calling me and explaining. So let's be a little more careful with the applications. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u103	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues who have stayed in the hall! Most of us, with the exception of representatives of the so-called Opposition Block, who, by all their votes, show that they work for Moscow, work for the enemy. Most of us, who don't belong to the party, under which flags we don't come to Parliament, most of us are Ukrainians and people who want the good of this country. But why, as a result of our 25-year history of independence, do we live like this? Why does Ukraine now take first place in the world in corruption, on an equal footing, on an equal footing, on an equal footing, on a level of poverty, on the basis of disease, on the basis of mortality, but on the basis of achievements, on a future perspective, on an index of happiness (even someone who does not know)? Why when we talk about a strong army, a strong defence, a strong diplomacy, we forget about one very important thing: it is impossible to build a strong country without a strong economy; it is impossible to build a strong country when most people are beggars; it is impossible to build a strong successful country when there is no justice. Justice is the foundation on which everything else is built: justice in personal relations, justice in public policy, justice in the distribution of economic benefits. When ten families of oligarchics are used today, they have all the benefits from the economy, and Ukrainians have to pay the crazy costs for the nadar, which they seem to have under the Constitution. Ukrainians cannot use the fruits of produced produce because there is no justice. And so when we want to overcome poverty with you, when we want to make a strong army with you, when we want to free our home country from the enemy, we need to remember that everything begins with truth and justice. Ukrainians, what is needed today? Unfortunately, that's what the authorities don't see, that's what the authorities don't understand. Although I have a paradox: the President is a successful businessman, the Prime Minister is a successful businessman. Many successful businessmen came to power, built their own businesses, and couldn't build a country. Why? Because they forgot that the main thing is that it's justice that you don't have to rob yourself, not pull everything out, but share it with people in the first place. As Mark Bernes sang, "The first thing is airplanes, and the girls later." So the most important thing that people need today is jobs, wages, prospects, a normal pension -- that's when a strong country is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u105	Thank you. I would like to invite you to speak to the people's deputy Silantiev, who will speak in place of Kirichenko, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u106	Denis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, literally yesterday, the Paralympic Games began in Rio de Janeiro. Therefore, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I would like to congratulate our Paralympics on this occasion from the entire Chamber of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] To wish them strength, luck, health, success in achieving their goals, to go to their starting points, to fight and to win in the name of Ukraine. Now, back to the last Olympics. Throughout the history of Ukraine, our team has shown the worst result. And it's just the tip of the iceberg, the sport of the highest achievements. At the bottom of this iceberg is the destruction of children's sports, the destruction of sports infrastructure, the destruction of student sports, the incursion of children and the like. I think that the only good thing about this statement by our team is what should be the occasion for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the President, for the Prime Minister to develop an integrated programme for the development of physical culture and sport. This must be done by four ministries: the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education. Today, these days, the budget for 2017 is being budgeted, now all of these ministries are "foaming at the mouth", and more precisely, ministers must prove that it is very important today to preserve the health of the nation, that it is very important today to preserve children, that it is very important today to preserve the potential that we still have for a successful and healthy nation. The Radical Party faction and I have addressed the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers on a number of occasions with proposals for such an integrated programme and specific proposals for the development of the physical culture and sports of young people and so forth. Unfortunately, we only received receipts in response, and the sports community was in complete decline. It is now necessary to listen and understand that such a system cannot continue to work and that such a system will only lead to the collapse and destruction of sport and sports infrastructure and the destruction of the growing generation of our nation. Enough savings on nation health, enough cheap populism, let us work together constructively and productively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u107	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u108	Oleg Musei, 224 constituency, Sokalishte. Please pass the word to Bogdan to Matkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u109	Good day, fellow countrymen, good day, Ukrainian people! Bogdan Matkowski, 121 constituency, National Control. I would like to say that recent events have led to personal disappointment in some politicians, in some journalists. But these events add more confidence to the work, to the efforts that will need to be made in the future. The recent events that have to do with People's Control have to do with one thing: one thing: the willful confrontation between the two political forces -- between the People's Front and the People's Control -- although I know a lot of colleagues and friends from the People's Front, my brothers. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I'd like to say the following, colleagues, you're deliberately being dragged to the wrong place. Those people we're fighting, and we're fighting exclusively against corrupters, against those who steal state property, and they're not only in your faction, they're in many other factions alike, but we don't have the right to allow people to despair in our opposition to such people. So, colleagues, I'm asking you very much, don't let those people who have already lost the courts on our charges continue to manipulate those. Those actions and those manipulations they're doing right now. At my side is Dmitri Dobrodomov and Oleg Musey, and Andrew Antonishka, who is not here, is now in Lviv. But, colleagues, once again, we need to stand against it together, because that's what we talked about in Maidan, and that's what we talked about in the ATO zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u110	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Olga the Mantis, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention to the sick again? Despite the fact that our country’s leadership has consistently reported on the health care of Ukrainian citizens. We face problems every day. I want to point out that this week, two laws were passed on to Parliament: 1242 and 4449 -- very important laws, including those that are part of decommunization, are laws on mental health reform. I think you all know that the psychiatric service in Soviet times in 1933-1937 was one of the elements of punishment. And in 1937, in my family, two of them were tortured to death in Paul’s hospital. So it is very important for me personally and for the entire Ukrainian people that the psychiatric service becomes a democratic, transparent service, whatever. I don't know who we trust. So I ask you to consider my statement from the rostrum to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the need for urgent implementation of Laws 1242 and Law 4449. Law 4449 allows the problem of violations of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to be resolved. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, there is a decision by the European Court of Justice. And so far, dozens of people are suing the European Court against Ukraine and winning the courts. And today, Ukraine is losing hundreds of thousands of euros as a result of its failure to pass these laws because, according to the European Court of Justice, every time a Ukrainian citizen is tried against his country as a result of a violation of constitutional rights, the Ukrainian State pays him between 20,000 and 30,000 euros. There are dozens of such people in line to sue Ukraine, and many cases have already been won. So I am addressing all of you, asking me in connection with what I am doing. Please give me another 20 minutes. Please support these laws and ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put these laws to the vote. I also want to point out the catastrophic situation that is currently taking place with medicines for children's oncology. The warehouses contain medicines for children’s oncology worth 125 million dollars. They're sitting there. Monday is going to be 90 days at the warehouses, so far, in in incomprehensible conditions for me. They are not handed over to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u112	Please, 30 seconds. Please, Mrs. Olga, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u113	For 125 million dollars, three months of children's oncology medicine is frozen in warehouses only because between the structure of Humana Farm, the Crusher cannot determine who will pay taxes and get an explanation from the Ministry of Finance. Please consider this an immediate, urgent request to the Ministry of Finance to explain who should pay taxes and to whom. To be transferred to the Ministry of Health on Monday. Otherwise, they will be passed on to those who put these drugs in Ukraine, and we will lose both drugs and 125 million, and time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u114	Those who want to speak. Thank you. Welcome to the words of Andrei Teteruk, People's Deputy Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u115	Dear Vice-Speaker! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! We all want Ukraine to become a prosperous, powerful country that will not fear any neighbour who violates international agreements, introduces armies or takes over parts of our territory or kills Ukrainians who have lived for centuries on our God-given earth. All of this requires us to unite all our efforts in the same direction — to build our country. It's a shame to see how even in this room, there's a lot of stuff going on in Cabmine. Because all of this goes to a different angle when it comes to our country's existence, that's the main thing. All our dreams can be one thing that the Kremlin's mercenaries will rule here. And it's a shame that we don't see agents of the influence of the Russian Federation taking important key positions and changing our consciousness. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that Russian citizen Stolarov took the position of editor-in-chief of the Inter Channel, and she was preparing news in such a way that everything we see on TV was terrifying for us to be disappointed in the fact that we were able to unite and build our country. This is a very frightening information for each of us that Russia not only introduces troops, Russia introduces its people to betray us in its victory. In fact, as of today, out of the 100 most qualitatively elected deputies in this sessional room of 48, that's the majority of them are members of the People's Front. I'm really glad that in two years we're proud to be able to report that all the important drafts for our country have been voted "The People's Front." The time will come when each of us will report to our constituents, and the promises we have made will be compared to those we have achieved today. I want you to know that we are working hard to ensure that Ukraine has a powerful economy, so that Ukraine has a powerful army that will defend our borders, so that we have a working parliament despite all the troubles that exist in this session room. And it's very important that we see who really works for the country and who agrees with the Russian agents that I mentioned in my speech. Be careful, citizens of Ukraine, not just looking at words, but looking at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u116	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u117	And look at the consequences that our nation will have as a result. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u118	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Andrew Lozov. Andrea Lozov. None. The next one is the national deputy, Ednak, who gave the floor to the deputy Yuri Lewchenk. Please. He was handed over by the One who. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat for all the rules there are. I think it's fair that only those MPs present in the room can participate in the recording. In the same way, only those who are present in the Hall can pass the word. Cards taken in the record and then when their owners call and ask someone to pass the word, it doesn't work and it won't work. Please, National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainians, the honorable squires! Today, I'd like to turn to you about strengthening that vacchanal, if even possible, which is now taking place in the capital, that building vacchanal that the whole country has been observing for the past few days. Because this is shown in all the news of all the leading channels, in fact, in the evening news. Last of all, what we're seeing is events on St. John's Lane, where aunts protect not the legally acquired land of Kyivmishkbud. And those aunts shoot people, shoot the community. Because someone here is saying that it's supposed to be dismembered by different groups of military, so there's someone else on one side of "Azow." In fact, this opposition has been going on for several months. And the community goes out, ordinary people go out for a few months and fight those aunts. And they're shooting, they're throwing bricks, and so on. But where did this all come from? This began with Mr. Vitaly Volodymyrovic signing an illegal lease on the land in March 15. He illegally transferred it to Kyivmishkbud because at that time there was a rule that the land could not be passed on without an approved DPT, and the DPT was not approved there. So that's the root of the problem, actually. So we see now, as literally yesterday the court took over the community of the Beast Square. Likewise, it was also done illegally and it was also done to the assassination of Vitaly Klitschka, who also issued completely illegal acts of admission to the land area, to which the court now referred yesterday in its absolutely illegal decision. Similarly, we see that at every session of the Kiev City Council, illegal detailed territorial plans are now being adopted that run counter to Kyiv's master plan. And there's even an official explanation of the Minregonbud that it's all illegal. But still, Klitschko and his "BbPshno-Edinyevsky" gang, there are lots of different factions and semi-fractionals, they vote for these illegal decisions and they continue to build the Kyiv. So we see now, the last thing that might actually fall on people's heads is the Hero's Dniepra Metro station, where there's already a crack in the lobby of a station in the ceiling, because there's a decision to sell land and build a three-story shopping center on the subway station. And this is also the result of the activities of Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschka. That's why I'm calling on the Ukrainian Parliament today, and I'm starting all appropriate procedures now, to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the illegal activities of Klick's city head and bring him to justice. Even if it's a temporary investigation commission. Please give me another 10 seconds. Even if this temporary commission of inquiry, as many do, really speak, they have very little authority and it's possible that it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u120	Please finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u121	But let everyone see in the open sessions of this interim commission of inquiry which illegal documents and what Clicko and his subordinates publish. Let the whole country see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u122	Thank you. And the last performance for today is the National Deputy Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. We have two minutes to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u123	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Today I was moved to the rostrum by a very intense conversation during the day of the government. It seems to me that the response of the head of the government to your deputy, which you can read on the Internet on "Ukrainian Truth," to someone who didn't hear a direct conversation today. Such a very specific guide was given to his subordinate. I would also ask Vladimir Borisovich to apply the same rhetoric to all those who give him Leipzigs, false information about providing our citizens with drugs, especially those medicines that have been purchased by international organizations. Today, we do not raise the question of where Kvetashvili went, who collapsed the ministry’s work, for which the majority voted, almost 300 people. And who's responsible for that. I have a question to ask the head of government today, why is the head of the Ministry of Health not appointed? Why? In order for anyone to be responsible for the disorder that is being created in health care today. Vladimir Borisovich, it is all false that today 80 percent of the money that was allocated back in 2015 is, so to speak, loaded and medicated. There are no vaccines today. We were approached by two colleagues, national deputies with grandchildren. There's no vaccine in the camps and there's nowhere to buy it! But God be with him. This is a question to which the BSS should return, since it now has the results of the State Audit Service check. There are a number of problems. And the problem with the supply of drugs, and the fact that the supply conditions are broken. For six months, the money's been accounted for, there's nothing. And that international organizations have made purchases in Ukrainian manufacturers. And because they bought our drugs from our middlemen. There are more expensive drugs than there were. And what they got was 110 million dollars for servicing these contracts. I have the next question. Today, after the "Government Day," your press service is launching some very interesting information in the press that you have been commissioned to conduct an urgent drug purchase in 2016. I want to remind you that people were sick in January 2016, in February, March, April, May! There were no drugs! And they're not here today! And if you said from the Supreme Council rostrum that you would show how to run the state, I have a question. Why only after the end of the first decade of September do you have the commission to buy. As long as tenders and purchases are carried out, 2016 will pass. And today, unfortunately, there is no cure in clinics or hospitals today, and there is no cure in any pharmacy. Be responsible for health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-09-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that there are still many who wish to speak. But we approached the second hour. There's one faction that didn't get a single performance, it's the Self-Help faction. And I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's wrong, but it's fair. The second hour and we're done, we're adjourning this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next meeting will take place on September 20th at 10 a.m.
