ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for a break. I'm asking respectable colleagues to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for registration, please, we're too few. Blockers, please approach the rostrum. Deputies, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, can we get started? Is everyone in the hall yet? Then I ask you to prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:10:10]] There are 348 deputies registered in the hall. And so we can move on to the next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, the following day we have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects that are not privatized" to exclude companies from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization but may be corporateized (No. 4525). Dear colleagues, there is an offer from the minister and from the head of the committee, Andrija Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, are we ready to vote? I ask you to prepare for the vote. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Those who support the consideration of Bill 4525 by a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[16:11:50]] For 116 116. I'll make another offer. If we don't, we'll look at it as a whole. So, dear colleagues, I'm once again proposing a reduced procedure of 4525. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:12:28]] For 122 122. The decision is not made. Please, by the factions. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Nasalik Igor Stepanovich. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Judges. I don't have more than 40 days in the hall. Nothing's changed. You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" to exclude companies from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization but may be corporate. The draft law proposes to exclude the state-owned enterprise Dniprovichprom (city of Vishgrad), the branch of the state-owned enterprise of the Scientific and Research Institute of Energy of the Institute of "Ukrhedrocleaning" (city of Zaporozhye) and the state-owned enterprise from the introduction of electronic measurements of the "Ukrenener Monitoring" (city of Kiev) from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, but may be corporateized. According to part 9 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Property Management, the immovable property of state-owned property that is not subject to privatization cannot be alienated, removed, transferred to the statutory capital of economic organizations and cannot be acted upon as a result of their alienation. This standard is valid from 8.04. In 2012 In connection with this ban, business liquidators cannot take steps to sell real estate. The adoption of the bill will allow the completion of the liquidation of state-owned enterprises, as well as the decision on the liquidation of the state-owned enterprise Dniprovichprom, which is not doing financial and economic activity to date. I propose to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. In short, businesses have been in liquidation and wages have been paid for decades. Is there anything I can do? Set up the property, sell, fill the state budget and make the financial spending less direct to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Please, National Deputy Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I propose that we adopt this bill. We met a list of enterprises that are not privatized, and there's a very large list. There have already been suggestions in previous sessions regarding the removal of reports from the country, and fortunately, we have blocked these initiatives. But in this list of enterprises that don't belong to privatization, but there's actually a huge number of ghost businesses that don't do business that are actually ballast and loss to the state. The only thing I'd like to notice is that it's better to measure 10 times and cut 1 times. Therefore, the adoption of such laws as a basis and in general is risky because, secondly, there will be an enterprise that is important, strategic or has some property that needs to be privatized. So I'd like to suggest that we take it, work again on the committee, check it out and then accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u5	Thank you. I remind you that we are now asking the reporter a question. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Natala Novak, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u6	Dear Minister, please tell me, is there any documentation on the book value of enterprises that are proposed to be excluded from the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u7	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u8	Of course I do, I can call them all. For example, "Science Research and Project Institute "Skidnapping." On the business balance sheet, a fixed property is published at the address. This, by the way, could be said by the MPs who are from Zaporozhye. Zaporozhye, street Trigubenko,18: an administrative building of 2010 square meters, a warehouse building (first floor) of 416 square meters, an EMU building (second floor) of 401 square meters. As of 01.03.2016, 979 thousand dollars are owed. If other businesses are interested, I'm willing to give them a full sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u9	Thank you, Minister. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know this list, maybe it should really be discussed in detail. But we know that today the government is carrying, like the previous government, like a written bag, with the idea of total privatization today of everything in Ukraine. You know a lot about this subject of manipulation when you talk about business damage. Of course, no one needs to hold state property for damages or some kind of paper business. But very often, perhaps not in this particular case, but very often it's strategic enterprises, businesses are profitable. And especially during the war, talking about this privatization is just criminal, it's just a country robbery -- no more, no less. So we really need to study in very detail what kind of enterprises we're talking about. Is it really businesses that don't need, that are corrupt and so on and so forth. But in general, the idea of conducting privatization in Ukraine today is just a criminal idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u11	Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u12	If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u13	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u14	Andrey Yuriovich, I have to tell you about these companies. They've been in bankruptcy for a long time. And in addition to increasing wages, absolutely no functions are performed, and today it's just a branch of the ministry. So it's proposed to remove them, to put them on a direct auction, to implement the premises directly to be run by the State Property Fund. Pay people off their earnings. Absolutely not. They don't work for 10 years, and they don't work for the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Alexander Dehtirczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u16	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, U.S.A. 154th constituency. Mr. Igoru, in my own time, I have been addressing you as a national deputy, not allowing the company to be privatized. And thank you for that support, then it was not excluded from the list of objects to be privatized. I would also like to hear a program of further action from you as a minister, in fact, in the peat field. In this business, I'll give you an example, it was also shown as a loss, but after a change in the management of the enterprise, it showed the profits of over 8 million dollars in eight months. And this business is very strategic for the region. Of course, we would like to support the privatization of those businesses that are truly corrupt but are bound to be cautious and considerate of such things. Because even in this enterprise, we can see that the fastest attempt was to get it to that state and privatize it. So in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u17	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u18	Of course. I have to say that we have had more than once discussions on the development of the peat industry in Ukraine. Right now, we're looking at the replacement of the head of Ukrthorfu, who led the industry that should be profitable to 249 million losses. I think it's not just the release of this leader, but this leader has to be criminally responsible for what he did in his management of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u19	Thank you. One last question, we have time. National MP Yuri Lewchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u20	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to say that it's very good that we have a full procedure to deal with these issues, because despite what was proposed by the Ministry and the Head of the Supreme Council, and there by the committee, such issues need to be dealt with exclusively in full procedure. Unfortunately, even though we are considering the full procedure, we do not see all the information. There are, indeed, only 3 businesses in this business. But I took a conscientious approach to this question, and my associates and I looked for any information about these businesses in open sources. There's no information in the open source on these businesses, except for a few bankruptcy lawsuits. It would be logical, then, that in the course of the full procedure, the reporters would show us the full financial reporting of enterprises over the past five years, the listing of their assets, the list of their assets, the list of decisions that were taken to improve their activities, if they were allegedly corrupt, because they were talking about bankruptcy, before privatizing so-called loss-making enterprises. (Please give me 10 more seconds.) Before privatizing so-called corrupt businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u21	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u22	You have to first understand if they're really corrupt, if they're artificially bankrupt. Sadly, we have not seen such information. So you can't make any meaningful decisions without seeing any information about these enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u23	Thank you. Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u24	Mr. Jury, I have to say that they're not what's harmful, they've been going through the liquidation process for more than a year. In addition, if it is necessary to communicate with other businesses, I am ready. And I think it's in that bill that you're hearing. If I'm interested, I can sound any of the objects that are in this law today. Well, let's say there's a Dniprovrom. The business balance, well to understand, is published by means of means of transport that have a significant degree of wear, i.e. since 1997, in particular VAZ-21213 (1997), CAMAZ 5320 (1999), ZIL 431410 (2003), MAZ 533603-221 (2005), VAZ 2109 (2006). That's it. A flat on 01.03. In 2016, the debt of wages amounts to 328,000 dollars. So the process of liquidation is going, the payroll is going, the company is no longer operating, starting in October 2012, in the liquidation process. Yes, of course, we can draw and continue to pay for the costs incomprehensiblely. Or this one, anyway. This metal is still sold out of auction as stipulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u25	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Ivanchuk Andry. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u26	Good afternoon! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee of May 11th, at its meeting, considered the bill and unanimously decided to recommend to the Ukrainian Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis. The bill contains a comprehensive list of enterprises that are part of the Department of Fuel and Energy, and we believe that these enterprises can be completely objectively excluded from the list of enterprises that are not privatized. Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee is asking for the support of Bill 4525. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u27	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Marchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u29	Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u30	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. My question is about the coconspirator as well as, in fact, the first reporter. In fact, I would like to repeat again what was just said to me, but unfortunately I did not hear the answer. If really the question, for example, in Dniprovochprom, is exclusively about the business where 5 CAMAZes, of course, this business needs to be privatized, if that's the case. But at the same time, in the answer to the previous person who asked the MP a question, I heard that it was also about wanting to sell some assets that could somehow fill the state budget. I mean, I mean, in other businesses, it's not just about old Camas, but there's some kind of building, or something else. Yeah? So once again, the question is, especially now, to the committee: why wasn't a properly prepared presentation where it would be clearly displayed and specifically what are the assets in k in each enterprise, which financial reporting was, for example, in 2012, in 2011 and so on. Why we only have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u31	Head of the committee, please answer the question of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u32	Dear Mr. Levchenko, on the first reading, if we accept this bill, before the second reading, I invite you to the committee and we will go through every enterprise in detail and analyze it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u34	If you don't mind, do you have a refill?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u35	You'll have the opportunity to make your final move, Mr. Minister. Thank you. Please make an entry to discuss the factions. Please, from factions to participate in the discussion. I'd like to invite you to the statement of the People's Deputies Valery Pisarenko, the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I think this question is clear enough for us to go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that a representative of a parliamentary group was enrolled in the faction discussion. Does this indicate that the deputies are ready to make a decision? I would like to invite you again in the closing statement of the rapporteur, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u38	Thank you for being able to communicate. And in particular, I was approached by an Zaporozhye MP who knows this object very well, directly, "Cortproofing," who says that as a science, he's not interested in anything at all, but only the premises seem to be leased and the money gets paid. But after continuing to talk to Mr. Levchenk, he has to announce that, for example, the "Krenenergonmeasurement survey", which is in the city of Kiev, which is concerned, in particular, with the balance sheet of the enterprise, the property at the address of Kiev, the street of Petluri, Comintern, 27, which includes the non-movable property: the garage of the combined steel concrete block in 1993, the iron concrete block in 2002. Transport: GAZ-3102 1995, "Skoda Felicia", 1995, "Nisan-Almera" in 2003 and, in addition, the status on 01.03. In 2016, the debt of wages amounts to 133 thousand dollars. So the situation is clear: one concrete garage and four cars, that's all the science that's going on. And the Ministry pays the salary and everything else in that warehouse. So I'm asking you to support this bill both in the first reading, and in general, to take it as a basis, and in general, there's no way to look at it all. On your face as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u39	Thank you, Minister. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear National Deputies! Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. To your consideration, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" to exclude companies from the list of objects. Fuel and energy companies from the list of property rights that are not privatised but can be corporateized. Bill (registration number 4525). Ladies and gentlemen, please vote! Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 4525 on the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, on the Exclusion of Fuel Energy Enterprises from Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, but Can Be Corporateized. Please vote. [[16:33:07]] For 177 The decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to factions: "Clock of Peter Poshenko" – 76, "National Front" – 57, "Occupy Block" – zero, "self-help" – 20, Radical Party – zero, "Fatherhood" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 3, "Will of the People" – 7. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, we must now decide what we are doing with a bill that was not supported in the first reading. In accordance with the Rules, we can bring this bill back to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading for work. Now we put and ask that we support this important bill not to. First, we return it, according to the Rules, as Mrs. Siroid's vice-speaker, subject correctly notes. the subject of processing, that is, we are returning it to the author of the government. And I'm voting now on the proposal to get the author back to work. Please support this standard. Dear colleagues, please support, we vote. [[16:34:57]] For 196 Nor does this nor does this nor does this norm pass. Then we'll try to get the first reading back to the profile committee, please. Let's do it again. Please, Your Honor, we ask all the factions present in Parliament that are members of the coalition that are in opposition to return this bill for re-reading to the profiling committee. Let's put it to a vote. [[16:35:37]] For a hundred and Thank you. Unfortunately, the bill is considered to have failed the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, we've been through the whole procedure. I would ask that we exchange our thoughts on how to move forward. Mr. Igor, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u42	Dear friends, I think that every penny that's from the state budget, every penny -- I want to stress -- is important. And if I've read what's on the balance sheet of enterprises, scientific enterprises, that there's a garage and five cars since 1996-1999, and the state budget pays for maintenance, state and everything, I'd ask you to support this bill anyway -- and reduce the budget spending on what's been in liquidation for more than five to seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to at least return to the committee. Colleagues, though, would return to the committee for work on the first reading. I'm asking you to support this proposal, I'm going to be able to unify the hall and be compromised. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to my fellow MPs again. I'm going to the minister and I'm going to the faction of Peter Dusty. Mr. Igor! Can we unify the hall so that we can at least go back to it? to the committee for the first reading, re-reading the first reading. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. These are laws that are very important to show. It's a sign of cooperation with the IMF. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. I very much ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, I ask the factions to invite deputies into the hall, prepare for the vote. There is a compromise proposal that has been made by a number of deputies to return to the committee for work. Minister, is that a good offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u44	I'm good! It's good, it's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u45	It's working. Dear colleagues! Maxim, call the deputies. Dear colleagues, once again I address all the deputies. This is a compromise proposal that should unite all deputies to return to the committee for readjustment. I think this proposal should be accepted by all, regardless of the political views of their factions, which may not allow this bill to be lost. So I'm asking everyone, I'm asking everyone to get ready for the vote, and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Can we vote? So I'm going to put the vote back to bill 4525. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this compromise proposal and I ask you to vote. So, I'm making a compromise proposal to go back to voting for bill 4525 and ask the honourable colleagues of the national MPs to identify themselves. Returning 4525, who supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote back to 4525. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:41:24]] For 214 I see my colleagues have not arrived. But I don't understand why I should be outside the hall while I'm working. Please, colleagues. The MPs go into the room as the vote goes. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take all the jobs. Fellows, I'll put you back on the line. And once again, this is a compromise proposal that provides for a re-examination of the committee, and on the committee, all the amendments can be adjusted and accepted. I'm asking the MPs to maximize their mobility. Please come into the hall. And, colleagues, I'm once again proposing to go back to voting for Bill 4525. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Return. [[16:43:17]] For 213 The decision is not made. Colleagues, there were five people in the hall just now. I just don't understand why I just did. Dear colleagues! I ask you very much, returning to the vote is not a violation of the Rules, and there is no need to appeal here. I have learned this story perfectly: A return to the vote is not a violation of the rules. Infringement of the Rules is when the deputies do not go to work, this is a violation of the rights, their obligations to the Ukrainian people. And before you ask me to break the Rules, go to your faction colleagues and ask them why they are not in the workplace when the whole country is going to work. Where are your colleagues? Where are they? Where are they at? Please contact not me, but your fellow MPs. [[Noise in the hall, applause]] The whole country goes to work, and we have MPs who aren't at work for some reason, and they appeal to me under the Rules. Dear colleagues! I ask you to prepare for the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote, come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on a return to the vote to draft Law 4525. Whoever supports this proposal is to return to the vote for Bill 4525, please vote and please support. Dear colleagues, we vote! [[16:45:44]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, ready to vote on the basis? Dear colleagues, please concentrate. I'm asking you to focus, get into the hall who didn't make it. Colleagues, please prepare to enter the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (4525), based on. Based on the base. Whoever supports this proposal, please. Well, take a shortcut, push it, yeah. Who supports the proposal based on 4525. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, 4525. Please vote. [[16:47:01]] For 222 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of order of the day 4294. This question is not complicated and I think it will unite the Hall, the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (4294). And there's an offer to have him consider a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:48:08]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Najem Mustafa. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Your opinion is proposed by a bill that amends the National Police Act on the section on operational and search activities. The point is that the Operational Investigation Act can be done by the National Police and the operational bodies of the National Police. But unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office does not accept this norm, it requires that this rule be reflected also in the National Police Act. We ask you to bring these. One line in the law that proposes and obliges all authorities to recognize that the National Police can also carry out operational-search activities. It's a very important law, because today we have all the guys who do their jobs in their places, they're threatened because the evidence they're collecting, they can be questioned in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I invite the Vice-President of the European Integration Committee, Ionov Maria Mikolayevna, to the report. Please. Who will answer from the committee? What about yours? Oh, sorry, sorry, colleagues, sorry, please. I'm just talking to the MPs at the same time. Palamarczuk, please, from the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u48	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 23 of the National Police Act (for clarification of certain provisions) (registration No. 4294). The draft law aims to ensure that operational units of the National Police can be operationally normalized by the Ukrainian Operational Investigation Act. To this end, the bill proposes to amend article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act by supplementing it with a new paragraph to provide the police with the right to carry out operational and search activities in accordance with the law. After reviewing the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies noted that the adoption of the bill corrects the existing shortcomings of the National Police's mandate and aligns the Ukrainian National Police Act with the provisions of the Operational Investigation Act concerning the right to carry out operational search activities with the basic powers of the police. The committee thus decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (for the clarification of certain provisions) (registration number 4294) to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's a complete understanding of this bill and it's common. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please two for, two for against, please record. Please, Igor Lucenko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear friends! Once again we see that the so-called police reform, the reform of the internal affairs bodies that we now have, has been carried out by extremely low quality legislative mechanisms. In fact, Parliament has been removed from the drafting of legislation in this area, removed by a violation of the Rules. In particular, alternative laws have been taken in violation of the Rules on how the National Police will appear. So what did we get? The police had virtually zero powers, as soon as it was created, and the police had no opportunity to investigate. Now, after a few months of this activity, we've found out that with operational and search activity, another very important police function, we also have huge problems. What, then, is going on? Who are the authors of these legislative novels? But, of course, we need to help the National Police, we need Parliament right now to correct these mistakes, unfortunately, late, but we certainly need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u51	Thank you. Ishtenko Valérie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u52	Please give the word to Palamarczuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this bill must be adopted, because we do not allow the National Police to carry out their functions, we are obliged to adopt the bill. This bill is not a political bill and is not one to think about whether to vote for it or not. There is a clear need to vote, support and enable the police to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u54	Thank you. Vojtic Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u55	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u56	Olena Sotnik, Self-help. Colleagues, look, we're actually unreservedly supporting this bill. I'm sure he needs to be accepted and Self-Help will vote for it. But we're pointing out that this is the second time in two plenary weeks that we've adopted amendments to the bill, more specifically to the National Police Act, which we're making changes to one line. I have a huge request, particularly to the National Police, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but we understand that they are the initiators of these actual changes, please let's stop this legislative spam, sit down, systematically analyze what are the shortcomings in this law, which is what we need to do to make the police function properly. And we're going to introduce not one norm, but we're going to introduce systemic bills and we're going to review them once. Self-help, for the time being, has its own work on the amendments to the National Police Act. But we have been working on these changes for three months to bring them in systematically, and we will present all the relevant articles and consider them once. We ask you very much, very many bills that need to be considered right now, but we're spending so much time changing into one standard. Please, the National Police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is more responsible for its policy-making function in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Olena, I agree with you completely, and we need to approach reforms systematically so that they can be systemic. Sometimes, though, there are situations that are simply fireful when there is a need. Again? But sometimes there are situations that need an immediate solution, and actually, at Mustafa's request, this was made today. In fact, I was hoping that this would unite the hall. Is there any support for you? There's support. I'll give Mustafa another minute with your permission and we'll go to the vote. The discussion is over, Your Honor, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues! Please invite the deputies to the hall, please prepare for the vote and turn on Mustafa Najem's microphone for the performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! I'd like there to be no speculation, let's put it bluntly -- this bill is only called for by one condition: The Attorney General's office at the time of Mr. Shockin's request that there be changes to the ODS law. But the ODS law provides for police activity and for operational and search activities. It's nonsense to introduce this into the National Police Act right now. But we only do it for one reason, because then the Attorney General's office will fight the police. As far as the system bill is concerned, we agree, that's really necessary, and Helen Sergiyevna, you know that a bill is currently being drafted by the National Police, and you've been talked about it, including House Revazovna Decanoidze, who told you that there is such a law that is being prepared, and you've been preparing it too. Let's reconcile positions and go along with this system law, which you don't want to do, but it's normal. But you don't have to say that such a law is not being prepared, and we also understand that it's not a question of whether we want it or not? Boys work, they have to work under the law, it really does.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. I'd like to rephrase whether there's general support in the hall, support for this bill? There's general support. Here's just one sentence that adds power and influence to the National Police. And I think if Parliament supports the National Police, it'll be a good sign and a good decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (for the clarification of certain provisions) (number 4294). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4294. Please vote, please vote. [[16:58:36]] For 245 Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is the committee’s decision to vote on it immediately and in general. I'm putting the committee to a vote. Who supports the adoption of the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (4294) as a whole, please vote. Please vote 4294 in general. [[16:59:13]] For 254 Decision taken. Congratulations to the author, welcome to the committee for the quality of the fruitful work, the law is passed. The following is the bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility for driving in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drinking or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed of reaction) (number 4373). There's a suggestion from the author that we look at it in a simplified procedure. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:00:13]] For-182 182 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u60	Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! For your consideration, a bill is proposed to increase the responsibility of those who are driving motor vehicles in a state of alcohol or drug abuse or under medical treatment. It is very important to understand that we lose people on our Ukrainian roads in peacetime because the drivers do not understand their responsibility and are driving, losing control of the vehicle. It is suggested that the responsibility be increased in such a way that for the first time a driver will pay a fine of 10,000,200 dollars, which is 600 untaxed minimums, and will be deprived of the right to drive for one year. If he's in the same situation again for two years, he'll be deprived of control for three years and will pay a fine of 1 thousand 200 untaxed minimums of 20,000 400 dollars. If he is again driving drunk for five years, he will be deprived of his right to drive for 10 years and will pay $40,000,800. But it's just a rule of law. I turn to every concerned Ukrainian who sees that the driver is driving a five - wheel drive or in a state of drug abuse: refrain from doing so — and save our Ukrainians. Our children, our parents, are suffering from such negative behavior, and Ukrainians are killed on Ukrainian roads every day. We lose the most important thing to be proud of, to appreciate, the life of a Ukrainian. That's why I'm asking all the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u61	Please give me one more minute. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u62	I ask all MPs to be careful about this bill, to vote for it and to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u63	Thank you. From the Committee on Law Enforcement, I ask Palamarczuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u64	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility for the management of vehicles in the state of alcohol, narcotics and other drinking or under the influence of medicines that reduce their attention and speed of reaction). The vehicle is a source of increased safety, and the driver is therefore responsible not only for his life but also for the lives of pedestrians and the value of other citizens’ possessions. Sadly, drivers today take very lightly their duties, ignoring the rules of traffic and the rules of law. In this connection, the author proposes to amend article 130 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for responsibility for managing vehicles in the state of alcohol, drugs, or other drunkenness or under the influence of medicines that reduce their attention and speed of reaction, increasing fines. Yes, according to the bill, a fine can grow from 200 untaxed minimum citizens' income, which is only 3,000 400 dollars to 600, which is already 10,000 200 dollars for the first violation. It is also envisaged that a fine in the case of driving an unsuspecting driver is applied along with a one - year driving ban. In addition, the offence committed within two years of the date of the previous one will be repeated. For the time being, it is one year. The driver, who will be arrested again for driving in a reckless way for two years, will already pay a fine of 1,000, 200, untaxed minimum. Now it's almost 20,000 400 dollars. And he's going to be deprived of transportation control for three years. If a driver is arrested for a similar offence for five years and a third time, he will have to pay a fine of 2,000 to 400.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u65	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u66	I'm finishing up, let me finish a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u67	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u68	It will also be deprived of the right to manage the device for up to 10 years. In doing so, the driver’s relapses can also punish the sufferer. By removing the means of transport. The bill was passed by committee members who decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading and on the basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I ask you to record two for two for one, two against one, please. Podobraznik Vadim Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, at last we must increase the responsibility of drivers who are irresponsible to our citizens who do not understand at all that the lives of others should not be lost. Hence, each of these people should at least once command others to be incorruptible. Therefore, I ask everyone to support this bill so that the maximum majority of Ukrainian citizens feel safe on Ukraine's roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u71	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u72	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Musia Oleg Stepanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to clearly support this good initiative of our colleagues to increase the responsibility for driving in an unsuspecting state of cars. We know that this is also a medical problem, except that the administrative problem needs to be increased the responsibility of drivers for allowing themselves to kill normal, peaceful children, citizens on our streets. But given that this is also a medical problem, you know that every time they get a driver's license, they get medical help, and here's the medical reference to get it, you need a drug addict's conclusion whether you're in or out of the drug situation. So it turns out today that, after that, the DAISHINI or the patrol police, a drunk driver is required to send the driver in an emergency drug exam. That is why I propose to the second reading and editing that I have prepared, to introduce another paragraph and a mandatory rule, stating that the mandatory extracurricular drug examination should be mandatory for all drivers who are held intoxicated. This is where we will be able to solve the medical problem of not allowing drug abusers to abuse alcohol and thereby reduce the killings that are taking place on our roads. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u74	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u75	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Dear colleagues! The Constitution states that human life is just higher, what man has. But it's a good thing that on the roads, it's a bad thing that people die on the roads. But we have forgotten that there is also water transport, as well as transport, air transport, and it would be desirable for all of these modes of transport to be combined into one bill, so that we can do less work, unite everything in the same and second readings, in order to increase the responsibility of all modes of transport. Thank you. The People's Will Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u76	Thank you. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u77	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, you will now witness how this bill can unite all political forces and unite around us to bring about the horrors that are being created in our transportation. Today we are considering a law that is a social problem. We understand very well that a drunk driver is a tragedy not only for him, but first of all a tragedy for people who don't expect to be involved in self-inflicted road accidents. Now think carefully about all the information we have seen on television. People are standing on stops, people are standing on sidewalks, not necessarily on the driving side, and we keep our attention focused on the fact that drivers are very often at fault, and officials are making raids. Today, this law is likely to be very loyal, so it cannot be accepted as a whole but merely as a basis. We give the opportunity three times to get drunk, to go on a transport vehicle, and to create risks to the health and life of people. We don't forget that those kids, those adults, those older people who get into traffic accidents, don't have any relation to alcohol. They are hostages of the situation, they become chronically sick people, they become disabled. The quality of their lives cannot be called human. Under these circumstances, the faction of the Opposition Block will clearly support this bill on the basis. And on the second reading, when we look at it, I think we're going to introduce adjustments to make punishment more severe and to make it impossible to get three times drunk by drivers. Today, a severe punishment must be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u78	Thank you. Self-help, please, Didenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we're only looking at one component of road safety. To date, we do not have a strategy of the State for road safety. That is why I would like to urge the government to address this issue and to develop a strategy for the 2020 State in which it calls for everyone to reduce road accidents and deaths by 30 per cent, as recommended by parliamentary hearings. The other one. It must be important to appoint a vice - prime minister responsible for road safety. And the third. Like all countries, Europeans create a coordinating body that will work for the safety of road traffic every day. And he's going to suggest what needs to be done, what kind of bill to make. As for medical records. Statistics show that 3 million, 500,000, were issued to manage the car, and only a million and a half million medical supplies were issued. That's a very important question, who issues them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u80	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u81	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. 3 Dear colleagues, a very proper initiative, although of course imperfect, because there are many gaps in this law, especially the fact that a person intoxicatingly gets a fine will pay more than the one who made the invasion and caused bodily harm. This is wrong. On the contrary, the law is fairly liberal and unfortunately it needs to be amended and made much more brutal because a person in a drunken form who is driving is a killer. So we have to be quite demanding. But I would still like to say that the problem is not only that drunks drive, but that there is a problem at the root of it, it is the availability of alcohol. And unfortunately, today, mass propaganda has led to the fact that Ukraine is the nation that consumes the most alcohol per capita and we sing in a mass way. Road traffic accounts for about 8,000 traffic accidents per year, resulting in the death of 3,000 people. This is because alcohol is simple and affordable. Unfortunately, it's simple. Could you give me a few seconds, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u82	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u83	The bill, which foresees 2971-d (by the way, Thursday will be considered) is that beer should be re-matched to a compote, which is a regular drink. And if a person who's had a bottle or two sits behind a wheel, he'll be in a state of drinking alcohol and he can make an intrusion, and make a dumpster, but a beer, at the same time, won't be considered an alcoholic drink anymore. Thus, such things, which are still the lobbyists of the alcoholic mafia and who promote them, promote alcoholics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We've almost finished the discussion, and we're about to make a decision. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Now, one minute, Fish. Turn on the microphone while the deputies enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u85	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues! Clearly, this bill must be supported, because safety on our roads is first and foremost. But let's be honest, in front of ourselves, in front of the entire Ukrainian society, let's say that the problem isn't just alcohol. And the problem is who's behind the wheel: people who don't even know the rules of traffic that they didn't give up, or who passed the driving license exams for money -- they're also really potential road killers. So, honourable colleagues, let's start with this bill and support it in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u86	Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on to the decision-making process and ask all deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote, please. So, dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility of driving in the state of alcohol, drugs or other drunkenness or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed of reaction) (No. 4373). Committee proposal: to vote the bill as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4373 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:17:03]] For 254 Decision taken. Congratulations to the author, welcome to the committee, on your fruitful work. Do you need a shorter procedure for second reading? You have to, right? No, no, colleagues, a reduced procedure for second reading. Who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading, please vote, please vote, shortened to second reading. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:17:46]] For 177 We're going to have to follow full procedure. I wish you a fruitful discussion and committee work. I think Parliament will support the second reading. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you right now, and I'd like to give you a message. During the Conciliation Council, both the chairman of the committee and a number of factions' heads demanded that the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices should be put to the vote without delay to simplify the state registration of medical devices. Mr. Oleg, dear colleagues, and we put him behind the stars to await the committee's decision. We literally got the committee's decision during the break and it was our joint arrangement to put it right on the agenda. Dear colleagues! Now, I'm going to propose that we put draft Law 4484 on medical devices, which is a revolutionary anti-corruption law. It was a requirement of our Health Committee, it was a requirement of many factions, and I'm asking this question, and, most importantly, it's a big request from the government, from Groysman Volodymyr, who was preparing the working group, and this project was actually working on this working group. So I ask all my colleagues, regardless of the factions, to support the proposal that we now go to the consideration of Bill 4484 as we did on the Conciliation Council. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? Mrs. Ola, are you ready? Are you guys ready? This is the position of both the government and the committee and the factions of Parliament, and I ask you to support it. So, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we now begin our consideration of 4484, the draft Act amending article 9 on medical devices. Dear colleagues! Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:20:17]] For 233 233-yes. Thank you for your support. Now I am voting on the proposal to review Bill 4484 for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. [[17:20:45.]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report. I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, I thank you for actually being able to consider a completely unique Law 4484, which we were not able to think about three years ago, or even talk about. This law, which destroys the monopoly of Ukraine’s pharmaceutical market, allows the European Community to introduce to Ukraine the drugs that Ukrainians today drive and buy in Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, that are much cheaper than those presented today in Ukraine’s market. In order not to go to Ukraine's market for non-quality products, this law gives us the possibility of entering the Ukrainian market and simplifying the registration of only those medicines that are registered under centralised procedures in countries with severe regulatory rules, these are the United States, Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Canada, as well as those medical devices that are registered in the European Union under centralised procedure. What distinguishes a centralized procedure from a decentralized one? A centralized registration procedure, it registers a drug in this country and allows it to be used in this country. Decentralized – it only registers the company, but the drug is not used in countries with strict regulatory regime. The simplified registration procedure will allow you to destroy the monopoly of pharmaceutical markets, pharmaceutical companies that are in Ukraine today, and will allow you to register for a new medical condition within 10 days and to be approved within 7 working days. At its meeting today, the Health Committee considered the bill and decided to recommend its adoption on the first reading and on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ola. Committee proposal: just on a basis? Thank you. Dear colleagues. Is there anyone from the Ministry? I'm asking you to give Mrs. Ollie a chance to complete her decision so she can give us a more comprehensive solution. Turn on the Mantis for one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u89	There can't be a bill in this bill, it's not a decision, it's a committee, it's our opinion, it's an expert opinion: it can be taken in general as well. If you apply technical law to the text of the bill, it can be accepted both as a basis and as a whole. And these are actually technical remedies we're ready to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u90	I'm asking them to finish our discussion, Mrs. Ola, to sound them for the transcript, to prepare themselves. And now I'm asking you to sign up: two for, two against. I'll give you a word to finish. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u91	Please give Oleg Berezuku my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u92	Mr. Oleg!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very important law. But here I am reading this law and again I am given a miracle. When we worked on this law, and more faithfully, amendments, it was not about the state registration of the active substance, but about the medical device that was registered and used in the protocols of the countries of the European Union, the United States, Japan and Australia. And we're putting the active substance back here. It's a substitution of values. So the record should be: a medical device that is registered for use in countries of the European Union, the United States, Japan, and Australia. And the rest is mimicry, the exchange of values, the hand is delusional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u94	Thank you. He's handing over his property. Please, Mrs. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u95	I'm fully supportive of a self-help colleague, and I want to say so. What I would like by this editorial, which Mrs. Mantis has just offered, is that I would like her to be fully politically and socially responsible for the fact that they're going to take vaccines to the Ukraine market, as they are now carrying vaccines that only went through 400 people's trials. And now the test is going to be 40 million. So all I'm asking is that the drugs, the medical devices that are included in the country's treatment protocols, are used no less than a year. Then we'll have drugs with you that are being treated by foreigners, not garbage that will take us to Ukraine, like an African country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u96	Thank you. As far as I knew, this position was actually a principle in preparation. And I'm surprised she's not here, and I think the minister who's already come to us will be able to give us an explanation for that. Now I give the word Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u97	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, stop being an opposition to the opposition, I'm addressing the previous two speakers. Please read the law, you haven't read the new law. Because this legislation allows the simplified procedure in Ukraine to register those medical devices, I emphasize the medical devices that are registered there and used there. This, Mr. Andrew, is my address to you. The key laws, the more they are initiated by the government and the very good initiative, cannot be considered by a reduced procedure, they need to be discussed, here on the issue of the health of our people, of the lives of our people. We have to understand one thing that this bill, it opens up the market, it opens up the possibility for our patients to buy a wide range of drugs, high-quality drugs. This bill doesn't really ask questions about the cost of drugs today, it has to tell the truth, but it's only the first step. We must say today that we must also protect a domestic producer who is surviving economic hardship today. As a whole, therefore, this bill cannot be voted on in any way. And I'm addressing the committee head -- don't change your mind. Today, on the committee, we voted unanimously on the basis and no "in general," and the tactical rights there can be no language. It's not about a monopoly today, it's about a Ukrainian citizen who lives in Ukraine and who needs and has the right to choose and use quality drugs. So for this bill in the first reading of "The Opposition Block" as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u98	Thank you. Now Kirichenko's from the Radical Party. Then I'll give it to you, Mrs. Irina. And the Front. Please, Kirichenko. I'm sorry. Excuse me, please. Kishkar's on tape now. He passes the word to Hanni Hopko. And then I'll give it to Kirichenko. I'm sorry. Please, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u99	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I propose that today, on our first reading, we vote on this important bill. Because, in fact, the volunteers of Ukraine who provide heavy children, especially cancers, drugs that are tired of taking these drugs in suitcases from all over the world, because we have an extremely high level of corruption to register drugs here. Thus, the bill has already undergone several attempts to falsify, to soften through the phildists. Finally, on May 26, there was a group, together with Prime Minister Groisman, with Ukrainian patients, where we agreed on a version of the bill. And this version, as of May 26th, it was now agreed by the committee for the first reading. I want to remind you that in 2015 there were also huge debates in this room about the purchase of drugs through international organizations. As a result of this positive step, we have already seen the economy especially in the purchase of drugs such as tuberculosis, hepatitis, and other government programs. So I would like to say that in order to overcome corruption in the Ministry of Health, it is very important for us to adopt this law in order to simplify it. Therefore, a great request to the Hall to vote now in the first reading and then, together with the public, the medical associations, the Ministry of Health to rework, but preferably for a simplified procedure for second reading, is an extremely important law. And of course we expect the government, the health minister with the team, to come and finally start the decisive reforms that we have been waiting for. For two years, health reform has not taken place at all, with the exception of drugs that we have been forced to purchase through international organizations because of high levels of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u100	Thank you. So now. I've already announced Kirichenko, I'll give him my first word, then I'll give you, then I'll give you Burbaku, and then I'll give you Barresuk. Kirichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u101	Thank you for your attention. I'm talking about the Radical Party asking for support for this bill. It's really an unprecedented factor in the market and it's really going to make market saturation more accessible to doctors. But I point out that we allow simplified registration not only for medical devices that are allowed to be used in countries with strict regulatory policies, but also for medicines that are subject to purchase by the procurement process of special organizations. And we already have experience using these organizations. And from my point of view, this experience is not positive enough. We have different opinions, we have UN structures that have their own qualifications. And there are others, like Crown Agents, which is based on UN.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u102	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u103	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I wouldn't want to be essentially a project, but I want to be able to go through this project through a profile committee. We were informed that the government bill, when sent to the committee and the outcome of the review, and when they compared the previous draft and what came after the committee were surprised. A government review was initiated on the facts of the violation of the government bill in the committee walls. So I ask you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, to instruct the regulatory committee to investigate situations concerning the passage of a government bill through a profiling committee and which officials or national deputies have brought their rights there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u104	Thank you. To take the situation down, I'm going to give Oleg Berezuku a word, he's read the previous text, and now he's on the subject, and I think he'll clear it up. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I have indeed read the previous version, not the version given by the Cabinet in exchange. So this version is adequate and can be accepted. And we don't mind if it's accepted as a basis and in general, at large.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u106	Thus, Bérezük provided an explanation. Now from Oxana Prodan's Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I now ask everyone who is in the room to support this bill, because, in fact, all those who want to spend their medicine in Ukraine, all those who want to make medicine available are fighting for this bill after the Orange Revolution. Then, in 2005, there was talk of a mob working on the registration. And since 2005, we've been fighting for this bill to come in this state with such a text to the Supreme Council. So I'm asking him to support it right now because it actually only applies to drugs that are not just registered in those countries that are listed, but are registered for use in the United States and Japan and the European Union and Canada. So again, please support this bill. Personally, I will vote both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u108	So, dear colleagues, now Lehchenka – 1 minute, then Olga Bogholec, then – the minister and we move on to the decision-making process. I ask you to work quickly and efficiently. Please turn on the microphone, Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u109	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, of course, you have to do everything you can to develop your own manufacturer, you have to do everything you can to protect your own manufacturer. And in fact, "Freedom" always insists and insists on importing. But when it comes to choosing between two options to protect your own manufacturer and to protect people from death, when this self-producer, unfortunately, rather than to engage in fair competition, the vast majority, the largest, say, self-production companies, are in the Ministry of Health and are in separate parliamentary groups, and are engaged in outright, basically lobbying, and at the same time thousands of people die each month. Thus, when choosing between these two options, it is certainly necessary to choose, not to protect such a manufacturer, but to choose the health of fellow citizens. So I would like to urge the people's deputies to vote in favour of this right law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u110	Thank you. So now Olga the Mantis and tell us what adjustments you can offer. Turn on Olga the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I would just like to put the risk under all the misunderstandings, the insinuation. There is no word in the law about the active substance. The law contains a "medical remedy registered by the competent authority of the United States of America, Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Canada, a medical device registered by the competent authority of the European Union for use in these countries or Member States of the European Union." All the comments about the active substance, about the non-application, are all included in this bill. To our colleagues in the People's Front, I want to say that the Ministry of Health has already created a commission of inquiry to study how the previous version of the bill was forged. And I'm asking you to support Bill 4484, and we're handing over technical remedies to the legal department.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u112	Please turn on the microphone, it will end for 30 seconds. Please turn on Oli the Mantis microphone. Mrs. Ola, to vote on the basis and in general, did I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u113	Given the technical legal rights, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u114	Thank you. So I give the floor to the interim duty of Health Minister Saffran Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u115	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (registration number 4484) was developed and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on May 26 in replacement. The bill proposes to simplify the state registration of medicines from countries with an effective regulatory system: the United States, Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Canada, and the European Union. It is proposed that the time limit for the registration decision be reduced to 10 working days. It is proposed that free of charge be posted on the website of an organization that is responsible for registering information about the device in place and adopting the bill will simplify the mechanism for the state registration of medicines from the countries that I have listed. And I'm absolutely convinced that he's going to allow the market to be filled with effective medical devices that come from countries with a rigid regulatory system, allowing this to expand the patient's right to be treated with effective medical treatment and reduce the cost of medical treatment for patients. I am very much asking for the support of the bill introduced by the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, is the first step in the way of systematic drug costing for our patients. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention. In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! Our discussion is over, but I will say a few more words. With regard to this bill, there was a whole detective story about how it appeared and disappeared. And I therefore, at the request of the head of the People's Front faction, have been instructed by the Regulatory Committee to clarify how difficult the bill has come to the walls of Parliament. But he did reach the walls of Parliament and, above all, this bill is an anti-corruption, honourable colleagues who are making revolutionary changes in this area. So I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs because we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, there is great opposition to this bill being put to the vote. But I would like to point out that our Parliament has failed no anti-corruption decision. And I'm sure, and we're going to be the only ones on this issue, and we're going to be uniform and we're going to be disciplined. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your place. We were able to remove all the questions that were involved in the bill. And I now put to the vote the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices to simplify the state registration of medical devices (4484) with technical and legal remedies, at the suggestion of the Committee, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote 4,484 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues, let's hit corruption! [[17:41:47]] For 239. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to the drafters. Special thanks to the government and the Ministry for Development. And thanks to all the national MPs who have been able to support this truly revolutionary, extremely important bill. Colleagues, pay attention! One day they got very suspicious. Do not leave the hall, we have two important decisions, I very much ask my colleagues not to leave the hall. There are two decisions. This is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Senate of the French Republic and the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, parliaments and the leadership of the EU Member States on the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for citizens of Ukraine. These decrees were supported and signed by almost all the heads of factions. The only question is that we will be able to vote on them so that we can unite in that regard. And so, dear colleagues, I'm bringing to the attention the draft Decrees 4730, 4731: the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Senate of the French Republic. And I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:43:24]] For 190 190 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on June 8th, there will be a debate in the Senate of the French Republic on the resolution on the possibility of mitigating sanctions against the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. You know, unfortunately, a similar resolution came up with a positive result on April 28 in the National Assembly. And today we have to go with you to the Senate of the French Republic. And it's very important that this call-and-order project was signed by all the leaders of the parliamentary factions, except for the Opposition Block, and parliamentary groups from the request of our French colleagues, that there can be no weakening of sanctions against the Russian Federation until we have such an exacerbation on the front. And you know what today is, unfortunately. We've got critical numbers after the ceasefire, by the number of people killed and injured. We have 113 of our Ukrainian citizens hostage in occupied areas with you. We have a failure to implement the humanitarian, security and economic blocks of the Minsk Accords. And we are actually asking the Senate of the French Republic to support Ukraine in the same way and to support the position of the European Union that sanctions against the Russian Federation should last until the Minsk Accords are fully implemented. I don't think there's anything to discuss here. I would like to thank our co-author for this same determination to our esteemed Head, Andria Parubi, and it is very important that we address our French colleagues with a large number of votes. June 8th, this question is being considered. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u118	For the co-report, I'm simply asking briefly, the deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Maria, the nominee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u119	Dear fellow MPs! In keeping with Irina Heratschenko's statement, I would like to say that, indeed, there is a need to call on representatives of the Supreme Chamber of the French Parliament not to allow such a decision to be adopted because it can be accepted and interpreted by the Russian Federation as a weakening of the unity of the position of the European Union on the unacceptable and condemnation of violations by the Russian Federation of fundamental norms and principles of international law. In this regard, the Committee on Euro-Inclusion at its meeting reviewed the draft decree and decided to recommend it as a whole. The regulation takes into account the observations and proposals made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u120	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, fully reconciled with all factions and government, and tell us if there is a need to speak on this issue. There is no common position and support. And so I'm asking you to prepare for the decision, and I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Dear colleagues, an important decision, the day before the hearing in the French Parliament, it is very important to demonstrate the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. And I'm voting on the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Senate of the French Republic (number 4731) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4,731 as a basis and as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:47:36]] For 227 Decision taken. It's been decided. I'm asking for more attention and discipline, because these are laws that have great weight both for our Western partners and for Ukraine. And I request that during the consideration of those laws be disciplined during the vote. Thank you for your support. Thank Irina Heratschenko for taking the initiative. And thank you to the MPs for supporting this bill. Next, this is the draft Decree (4730) on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, parliaments and the leadership of EU Member States on the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. Me, too. There's a suggestion from the authors that we look at it in a simplified way. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Short-term 4730. Please. [[17:48:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u121	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that, thanks to the great role played by today's membership of the Ukrainian Parliament, we are on the final line for Ukraine's visa-free regime. On 20 April this year, the European Commission presented to the European Parliament and the EU Council a legislative initiative to amend Council Regulation No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 on the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. The European Commission has, to date, appreciated Ukraine’s compliance with the first and second stages of the Lee Plan on visa liberalisation by the European Union of Visas. And on May 23, 16th, the Committee of the European Parliament on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs commissioned Mrs. Gabriel, Vice-Chairman of the Committee, to prepare an appropriate report for further consideration in the European Parliament. As you know, the position that the EU Council will address the issue of the deadline for granting Ukraine a visa-free regime depends on when this issue will be addressed in the European Parliament. And so we propose, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, that we ask our colleagues in the European Parliament to make this a day-to-day issue of this session, even in the summer, without waiting for the Ukrainian citizens to get a visa-free regime as soon as possible. In fact, this same appeal to the European Parliament was signed by leaders of all parliamentary factions, except for the Opposition Block, the leadership of Parliament, for which we are very grateful. And it seems to me that there is the full unity of the session room that we need to mobilize our efforts today in the dialogue with the European Parliament to have these discussions on granting Ukraine a visa-free regime as soon as possible. And after such a decision by the European Parliament, the EU Council also made a positive decision that there should be no temptation on the part of the European side to bind Ukraine's visa-free regime to the procedures that are being discussed today, a special protocol, the possibility of suspending the visa-free regime if it is disturbed by migration crises. These are absolutely two different questions. Therefore, I ask you to support such a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. And I am putting to the vote the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission on the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for citizens of Ukraine (number 4730). The committee also offers a foundation. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. 4730. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:52:27]] For 247 Decision taken. It's been decided. Welcome to the drafters of the bill and the government. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to remain seated, and I ask for a moment of attention, if possible, from the company. Maybe? Thank you. Look, we have a few debts left today. First of all, I have Palamarchuk, representative of the committee, the fact that we lacked a few votes when we put the daily draft of Law 4451 into order -- there was a general position on. votes. There's a petition from Fatherland, Kugel that we didn't put the bill in order, its number is 4078. And I have a request, an association, an organization, and that we vote on a few more decisions to put into the agenda. Society, let's concentrate, let's build up, and we're still able to make decisions right now, there's a lot of deputies in the room. And I'm asking you very much to make these decisions that we just didn't make so that we could make a decision. So 4,451 is about the State Bureau of Investigations to improve some of its provisions. Colleagues, the position of the committee is that it is necessary to include it in the order of the day session, just to include it, colleagues. I very much ask you to unite and vote. Let's support each other, colleagues, Fatherland, WFP, to support each other. So 4,451 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please vote. I'm asking you to vote in the agenda for the day session, please. [[17:54:34]] For 193 The decision is not made. Now it won't change the situation if you do. Well, give me one minute, Palamarczuk, please. And I'm asking you to stay in places, colleagues, for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, this bill is a technical bill that needs to be adopted. The bill takes into account, inter alia, the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine as part of the granting of orders and instructions to the investigating authority of the investigation. Special features related to the introduction of a single register are standardized. The procedure for accessing automatic information systems, which is mainly defined by the structure of the State Bureau of Investigation and, in particular, the Bureau system consists of the central apparatus, the territorial units, the special departments and the scientific research institutions. Qualifying requirements are laid down for the directors of the regional offices, the heads of the central DBR unit. The bill is extremely relevant to him long awaited by a competition commission that has been involved in the selection of candidates for the post of Director of the DBR and its deputies, territorial directors and directors of the central apparatus unit. The commission can't work without this, distinguished national MPs, please, please, for the start of the D.B.I.'s work, to select candidates for the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m1.u124	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put it again, because there's a really urgent committee requirement, it's not going to work, it's just getting into the agenda. 4451 – who supports the inclusion of the day-to-day session, please vote, please 4451. [[17:56:30.]] For 201 201, there's nothing I can do. Next: 4660 and 4661-1. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. Colleagues, on the road transport that supports the inclusion of a day-to-day session of deprivation, 4660, please vote. Please vote. [[17:57:04]] For 184 No votes. Next, colleagues! Bill 4262 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. There is a clarification with which the National Anticorruption Bureau has addressed us. And I ask my fellow deputies to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4262 session. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the agenda of the 4262 session, please vote. Please, Fatherland, please support. The next one will be, and you support this one, support this one. [[17:57:57]] For 204 204 votes. Colleagues, I'll put it back up and I'll go to Fatherland. The next is your bill, and we'll reach it in 30 seconds, and I'm addressing you to support the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau and to support it just to get into the agenda of the day session. If. Now I'm going to put 4262 again, and then I'm going to put 4078 in 30 seconds. Colleagues, I propose once again to include in the agenda the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, 4262. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:59:01]] For-200 200 for. The decision is not made. And Bill 4078 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the specialities of the exercise of property in a multi-family building, 4078. Please provide support for its inclusion in the agenda of the day session. 4078 is a day-to-day session. Nadia Savchenko made this request. And I ask my fellow MPs to support this proposal: 4078 is the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[5:59:49]] For a hundred and 159 – "for" The decision is not made. We don't have a discussion right now, we've got decisions to make. Honorable Fellows, 6 p.m. So we finished the questions that we had on the agenda. We have adopted a series of simply revolutionary important laws as a decision of the Law on Medicine. It's been a rough day, and at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. And I'm asking, dear colleagues, tomorrow at 10 a.m., and that we start at 10 a.m. with our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
