ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u1	Good evening, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Prepare to register for the evening session. Please, Your Honor, we are taking our seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, dear fellows. Please, Your Honor, we are taking our seats and preparing for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[16:15:36.]] 363 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council open. You and I have stopped to vote on the inclusion of two draft laws in the agenda. In particular, a law that provides for the confiscation of one and a half billion who are in Ukraine, who are arrested, from the previous regime. Unfortunately, several votes did not get the required number of votes, and we were unable to continue our work. Once again, I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Winnick. Three minutes of information on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I have already made the point of the law. Given that it wasn't voted on, I'd like to remind you once again, what are the major novels that will allow us to return the stolen assets to the Yanukovich regime and convert them into the general government budget fund, which is not much, not much, but 50 billion dollars. First. Who will be the subject of the legal regulation of this law? The subject will be persons suspected of committing corrupt crimes that have led to personal wealth, this article 191 possession of funds, this article 209 legalizing the proceeds of crime, and some other articles that today are similar to corruption in a series of legislative acts. What will be the object of legal regulation? Only the money. It's not about property or corporate rights in any way. No stock. It's not about fuel, it's about other material assets. Only the money that's kept in the bank accounts. How can we ensure that this legal standard is applied? We have a two-stage level of prosecution, that is, the decision will be made in favour of the national budget by the court of the first instance, which any person can charge. How can a person who is hiding from an investigation actually protect himself from this standard? The fact that it is hidden allows law enforcement authorities to apply this rule. If a person comes into the process and declares that the funds that have been arrested by the Financial Monitoring Service in the respective accounts belong to him, the only thing he will have to prove is that these funds have been legally received and declared. And then this rate of confiscation during the pretrial investigation for the benefit of the state budget cannot and will not be applied. All fuses are accounted for. This is a European practice. This is in line with the standards that are now approved, including the United Nations, the European institutions that are now observing and stressing that corruption is the greatest threat to modern life. And most of all, I want to remind everyone that by adopting the 2016 budget, we've foreseen almost 7.5 billion dollars of expenditure, funded by the army, funded by the purchase of arms, military technology. It was at the expense of this source that Janukovič returned the stolen funds to the budget of Ukraine. If we don't do it today, we're consciously saying that we don't want to support the army. Anyone who doesn't vote doesn't support the army. We agree that such complex laws should be adopted on several readings. That's why we're only talking about adopting as a basis and sending it to the Committee on Law Enforcement for further processing. To make all the remarks that were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u3	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u4	The language was spoken, taken into account, and developed into the second reading. The Supreme Council must take responsibility for what we promised. We promised to return the stolen Yanukovich? Let's do this. You don't have to say it's impossible to do that. A person who wants to do so does not want to do so. Let us work together and vote in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that this law needs our decisions. Please, write down from factions and groups, three minutes to express your position. We need to find a way out of this situation. Please log in from factions and groups for 3 minutes. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm not going to address my fellow national MPs. I see it's a waste of time and it's like throwing pearls in front of pigs. I want to speak to Ukrainian citizens. Dear Ukrainians, the bill that the Supreme Council is currently not voting on is $2 billion confiscated from Yanukovich, which he stole from each of you. When they say "state budget costs," the state budget costs come from taxpayers' costs. The corrupt authorities of Yanukovich, the kleptocrats used their power to rob the people, each of you for your own gain. For two years, you have been arrested, stolen from you, a respected Ukrainian, two billion dollars by a Yanukovic gang. Today's composition of parliament, which calls itself democratic, pro-European, modern, and anti-corruption fighters, is unable to make a decision to return the stolen people to you, people good, $2 billion to return to the state budget. In order to be able to finance science, education, medicine, defense, pensions, and wages. I think the position of the people's deputies who block the decision to return the Janukovitch gang to Ukrainian citizens who have stolen two billion dollars, those who block the decision take an irresponsible stand. The law needs to be worked out, and everyone will have the opportunity to work on it for a second reading. But on the subject of further processing, blocking the decision-making process and not returning two billion dollars stolen from the Ukrainians is a criminal and irresponsible policy. It's a sign to all the corrupts that they can steal, they can rob, and then the Ukrainians will never be able to return that money. We're not a rich country enough to let us rob billions of people and not make decisions to pay that money back. I'm talking to the Ukrainians, and I want you to take a look at it and figure it out. I call on my fellow national deputies, vote and return the funds they have stolen from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u7	Please, Auntie Blackwall, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u8	When we were in the elections, we all told the citizens of Ukraine that we were going to parliament to protect the state's interests, that we would work exclusively for the state of Ukraine, unlike the past. Now we can demonstrate it, demonstrate it in a very specific way. Now, whether we vote for this bill depends on whether more than 50 billion dollars will go into the state budget. Isn't that what we can show all the Ukrainians that we work for this state? Now this bill, voting for this bill really shows on whose side everyone in this session hall is on: whether he really came here to protect the state of Ukraine, or whether he's just cynical, he's talking on the air, and he's actually here as a lawyer of the Mafia, he's counting on some commission after the mafia can unlock and lift arrests from these funds in the future. We can't let that happen. Our direct task, our responsibility to the Ukrainians, is now to show and make sure that 50 billion goes into the state budget. You know, in this country in recent years, thousands of people have given their lives for this country, given their lives. This means that their children have lost their parents. You see, the children who died on Maidan, the children who died on the front, will never have a father again?Oh, my God! Do you understand what the victim is?Oh, my God! And what, this hall can't do a little, compared to this, a very small thing, but very much needed by Ukraine: 50 billion dollars in the state budget? And I want to tell you, to all those who say that this is not a European path, who says that this is not constitutional, I want to say that Ukraine ratified article 54 of the UN Convention against Corruption, which explicitly states that the right of States to create a legislative possibility of confiscating property acquired as a result of a crime without sentencing in criminal proceedings. This convention was ratified as early as 2006. What do you mean, ratified? This means that she has agreed on constitutionality in this country, that is, Ukraine. It's an absolute Ukrainian norm. And again, we've greatly reduced the application of this law. So that there's no charge of raiding businesses, property, all of this is limited to bank accounts, to the costs of the most dirty corruption schemes that have been captured. And that's a lot: $2 billion that this country needs very much. I'm asking everyone to be patriots in this country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u9	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u10	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues. The Law 4057 is currently under discussion. Some political forces have benefited greatly from the adoption of this law. And at the time of the adoption of certain things, unfortunately, these political forces appeal to the love of the Family, compassion for Heavenly Satan, for the conquests of revolutionary conquests that have been acquired in the past. But what's the bill about? The bill is based on evidence that there is no law enforcement system in place in Ukraine, that there is no prosecutor's office, that courts can prove the relevant guilt of some officials in high positions in the State and that their involvement in accession activities is that the income received and the money in the current accounts is obtained by way of approach. They chose the easiest way. Why should we prove in a legitimate way, and why should we draw attention to the presumption of innocence provided for in article 62? This is why no one appeals to the Constitution, but appeals to ratified conventions, international agreements and pan-European practices. And that we have a presumption of innocence, no one's saying. Let us rob those without proof of guilt, pending the conviction of the court. Why does he need it? It's too long a lengthy procedure. A criminal case could simply be initiated, a number of fabricated evidence gathered and everything confiscated into the State's income until the conviction was obtained. It's very convenient, and the main thing is very democratic. Therefore, respected colleagues, when you call on non-vote deputies to be aided by those who have left Ukraine, that is not the truth. Those MPs who have a piece of conscience who understand what the price of our society is now and what values our society holds, and that our society can also destroy our state system completely, they are still based on these considerations and do not vote in favour of these unconstitutional laws. Because they understand that violating the basic conceptual principles of our constitutional order will result in the inevitable collapse of society and the country. If we finally want to destroy this country, and those deputies who want to finally destroy the country, to put Ukraine on a mockery, they will naturally vote. But they vote under the slogans that they care that these assets will be seized, Yanukovich. You have all the tools in your existing legislation that allow you to confiscate these funds. Condemned on the basis of evidence if people are truly guilty. You've passed some of the laws you call dictatorial, too. Special criminal proceedings if.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u11	Please, Mikola Palamarczuk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by the committee. The committee took a negative conclusion, turning it back to work. This bill violates human rights, violates the Constitution, the principles of law. I call on everyone not to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Someone said something, but I stressed it before we finished the morning session. It is about adopting this law, putting it in the order of the day, and considering it only as a basis. Next, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the rules of law that can be prepared for second reading. This will enable all Ukrainian national deputies and all factions to make their proposals accordingly. Otherwise we're not going to go to that question, his solution, more specifically. Ready to vote? Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that a vote will take place. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u15	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am betting on the vote to include in the agenda for the adoption of draft laws registration Nos. 4057 and 3196. Integrating only in the agenda, please support everyone as an important bill, colleagues. Entry into the agenda for decision 4057 and 3196. Ready to vote? Come on, let's vote. The magical sound and immediately the deputies return to their seats. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. Vote, please support everyone, colleagues. [[16:36:46]] For-182 Let's do it again. Colleagues, take your seats. Take your seats. Come on, guys, focus. Well, please, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of bill decisions 4057 and 3196. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda and decision-making on the proposal that I have announced. Vote? Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:39:16]] For-188. The decision is not taken. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 76, "National Front" – 75, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 7, Radical Party – 17, "Batakščina" – 0, "Rebirth Party" – 0, "will of the people" – 0, "non-factional" – 13 deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear fellow national MPs, come to the rostrum, there will be a group photo now. Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm with you, look. Please, two factions have received a written statement on the break announcement of the People's Front and the Radical Party. A three-minute performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Today, we see that what is currently happening in the hall is the merger of two factions around the fight against corruption, the fight for the return of assets stolen from Yanukovic and his gang, into the state budget. You know, they couldn't steal it, and now we can't take it back? They've been in the bank for over a year, and no one can return them. And who, unlike the Supreme Council, who was the last bastion of democracy after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, should do so now. It is our duty to return this money to the state budget. This money is going to increase the security, to start our military enterprises, military-industrial enterprises, to preserve social standards. And you can't tell here how you love the people, go to the rallies, and then not vote for the money that's stolen by the criminal regime of Yanukovic, to the budget of the country that needs it. You're saying here that you don't have to take IMF loans, so here's the money, let's put it in the budget! You're still forcing us to take credit, your irresponsible policy. So, I'm sure that the blockade of the rostrum will continue until we make a decision that the inclusion of the bill into the agenda, and then please discuss it with the committees. The right norm is wrong – please, but let's start this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u17	Oleg Lazko. Vladimir Borisovich! Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. The Radical Party faction has made a responsible decision to block the parliamentary rostrum until the Ukrainian Parliament decides to return to the state budget of the $2 billion Janukovic gang to Ukrainian citizens. We will not leave this rostrum, we will not allow any lobbying law to be extended until the funds stolen from the Ukrainians return to the Ukrainian budget. We're standing here like screams.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I think everyone will join in the need for a solution. And we have to think about how we have to adopt this decision. In order to get as many factions as possible to vote, you're the pinnacles of factions. There are not enough votes, and some factions do not take part in the vote. So we need to hold a meeting with faction leaders to reconcile positions, all of us agree on the issue in order to adopt this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please, for two minutes, let all factions speak, say something. The People's Front we heard, the Radical Party we heard. Please, who didn't come out of the factions? The envelope was coming up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yurya Lucenko spoke on this point. From Fatherland, who will speak, colleagues? Make your position or offer. Then Rebirth, The Will of the People, and Self-Help. Who's from Fatherland, colleagues? Let's get out of here. Who's from Homeland? Two minutes. What? Well, you need to express your position: You will be supportive, you will not be why you will not be. No one wants to speak on this matter from Fatherland, colleagues. Well, make your point. Well, you don't support, you don't vote, you make your point: why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, two minutes, please, this was your profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u19	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, the point is that with respect to colleagues who are now standing near the rostrum, I have also stood there many times in my own time. I want to say that today there's all the weapons and all the mechanisms in the law enforcement agencies to ensure that two more years ago any asset is returned, but they didn't do it. What's more, we've had a month with you, dear fellows. two weeks ago, two laws: 4054 and 4055. And who among the national deputies read it carefully, not just looking at it, saw that even the European Union agreed on it. and demanding us to introduce a so-called special confiscation and to introduce this institution today, he proposes and requires us: only according to the court's decision. This bill violates two articles of the Constitution, article 41 of the Constitution, and article 62 of the Constitution. Thus, the presumption of innocence is completely overemphasized. Because at any time, any person, not Yanukovich, is prescribed in this law, but any of the 40 million people who live in Ukraine today can have confiscated property, and then deal with these corrupt investigators and law enforcement officials, who today are sorry, well, respect for society and people who are still suffering from what is happening in the country are unfortunately unprotected and have no expectations of law enforcement. So our faction supports the committee's decision, by the way, which it voted for. voted by all members of the committee from all factions to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, let's go now without debate, no debate. Let them take the stand, say "Rebirth." Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the Rebirth faction. We analyzed, our lawyers, this bill. There's a lot of objections that it actually has a very extended circle of action, and it's not just about the former criminals and those who fled with money from Ukraine, but it's about the hundreds, thousands of people who are now simple businessmen who have a problem with that bill too. And then what they're going to do is they're going to go after those who work well today, they're doing business, they're going to have assets. They're going to start taking property, selling property, and then they're going to have five years in court to prove that they're not guilty, they didn't have anything to do with this situation. So we suggest that we read the document legally, and then we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u22	Thank you. Please, "The will of the people." Who's in charge?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u23	There's no faction leadership? The envelope was coming up. They're all here. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to find the wording of the law that will be passed in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's have a reconciliation meeting again. Please, the author of the law is Ivan Vinnik, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u24	I would like to refer to colleagues who appeal against the rights of a citizen as enshrined in the Constitution. If you read this bill carefully, it's about money where you don't see a citizen during a pretrial investigation, it's off-shore companies. And a person suspected of having committed a crime cannot even be questioned as a witness, that is, a citizen has not yet been present, is an offshore company where two years of the funds have been arrested, and the investigation cannot question a person suspected even as a witness to determine whether they are his or not. And most importantly, if such a person shows up when the appropriate submission by the prosecutor is sent to the court for the benefit of the state budget, it will not automatically be possible to make such a withdrawal, because the person comes and declares: "this is my money." And the only thing she's going to have to prove is that this money was obtained in a legitimate way, that the corresponding declaration was given. Hence, no citizen’s rights are violated. As long as they're on offshore accounts, there's no citizen. As soon as a citizen appears, his rights will be immediately realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one clarification, please, Yegor Sobolev, from the place. Yegor Sobolev, Self-help. And I'm going to make a proposal on how we're going to address this issue. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u26	Colleagues, I'm asking you to pay attention, this is very important. We voted today in favour of the President's proposal to open declarations. Unfortunately, the last paragraph of these proposals uses the term "officers." This means that the law will not apply to us, to the President himself, to the Attorney-General, to all the important officials of the country, because we are officials. So I want to inform Parliament, and we've discussed this with the President's Administration and with the Speaker of the Supreme Council, that in formulating the final text, we're going to use the term "declaration subject" to which all officials and officials will enter. Because you and I voted to keep all the officials' declarations open. Once again, instead of the term "servicing persons" in the law, the term "declaration subject" is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-15-m1.u27	Thank you. And to take this proposal into account, but that's what it meant. Thank you, Your Honor. As far as I'm concerned, my colleagues are concerned about the issue of confiscation. I suggest you do it this way. At 12 o'clock tomorrow, at 12 o'clock, we'll have a consultation now, but tomorrow at 12 o'clock, we'll have a consonant meeting with Thursday for a joint agreed vote under this law. I invite tomorrow, for 12 hours, all the leaders of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, the leadership of the profile committee to reconcile all proposals and to vote on Thursday on this bill to confiscate these funds, these resources. In connection with that. Shall we continue our work today? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, good fellows. In view of the fact that there is no possibility of continuing the work of the Supreme Council, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place tomorrow. And I welcome you all to the adoption of the last visa-free law. Thank you.
