ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, recess is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u2	Dear fellow national deputies, we are opening an evening meeting. We've just finished our consultations. Everyone, please take your seats. We're starting a discussion of government report issues, and we can also consider today if 150 signatures are given, trust issues. Distrust in government. In this regard, you will need your decision, your honourable colleagues, to continue our meetings and to consider these two questions. The first, which is included in the agenda and as a result of its consideration, if 150 signatures of the Ukrainian National Deputies are given in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, consider the issue of expressing distrust of the Ukrainian government. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Attention, we're taking our seats, colleagues. We're taking our seats. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[16:18:18]] Please, Your Honor, 354 national deputies present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're starting our session. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of the evening, the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, the announcement of the suspension of the powers of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of state funds for the provision of services for the collection of hazardous wastes of hexachlorobenzene in the Kalu district of Johno-Frankiv district in 11-14 years. In accordance with Ukraine’s laws, I announced this at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so, honourable colleagues, there's a proposal to immediately support the vote by 226 votes, the attention being given to the government's report. If 150 deputies are asked about expressing mistrust by the government, we will also consider this issue today. Why am I talking about this? Because now we have two hours of plenary sitting, if we need to continue this meeting, I would like to vote now, because this is a procedural question. Everybody understand what this is about? I would like to point out that today we have a review in order of the government's day report. If the signatures of 150 deputies on the issue of mistrust have been signed in the meantime, this question will also be considered today. My colleagues, once again, we're looking at a government report with you. If 150 deputies are to be submitted now for consideration of mistrust, resolutions of mistrust of the government, we need to extend the meeting of the Evening Supreme Council to the consideration of the matter. This is exactly the proposal I want to put to the vote that I have the right to continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address the mistrust of the government if the appropriate submission is made. Is such an offer accepted? On continuing to conclude our meeting tonight with these two questions. Please support this proposal. Please vote. Take your seats, please. 226 votes, please. [[16:21:49]] For 238. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, I propose to return to the question that we have discussed and considered before lunch: 3,700 to vote on the basis and in general, and bring order not only to the government, but to the political order and order in political parties. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u4	Dear fellow national MPs, your attention. I received a letter from the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine signed by the heads of the five factions: Lásko Oleg, Oleg Berezuk, Maxim Burbak, Sobolev Sergy ("Fatherskina"), Yuri Lucenko - demanding to return to the 3700th draft. This is the principled position of these five factions. So now, your honorary colleagues, at the request of five factions, I've read this letter to you, which is the original, and I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. On his return to consideration of 3,700. Appoint by vote. Vote. [[16:23:29]] For 217 Attention, colleagues, it's about coming back. I see. Look, I can hear you very well, colleagues. The point is that five factions approached the Head of the Supreme Council. I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take your seats and calm down, after all! Take your seats, please. Take your seats. The offer of five factions. And a half-ton below, please. The offer of five factions to return to the question of 3,700, for this letter, five signatures, was original, and let’s do it. 3,700 for the return. Please vote. It's not a signed law. We're voting for the return of 3,700. [[16:24:39]] For 230 We're back. And the proposal to vote on the basis and in general with the proposals of John Krulk and Oleg Lášk. This is distributed to the deputies of this call, only on the lists of this call, on the basis and in general, we vote, according to the proposals that have been made. Vote. [[16:25:07]] For 222 [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, colleagues! Attention, colleagues! There's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellows, once again, with the insistence of five factions, I put the vote back to 3,700. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't tear down the government report, please! Don't look. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take your seats! Take your seats! 3700 for the return. Vote! [[16:26:21]] For 238. On the basis and in general, they returned. In accordance with the previous decision, we vote! – and the transcript that John Krulko and Oleg Lazko announced with technical law. Vote. [[16:26:44]] For 236 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Find out and conduct discussions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have discussions with yourself on factions. It's on its own factions. Let's move on. Let's move on. Let's move on. 236, law approved. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, take all your seats, please, and don't tear down the government report! Take your seats, after all!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u5	Register the decree, and we will consider it. All right, let's go. Dear colleagues, we have a draft ruling with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have introduced a draft law, namely, a draft decree: a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the move and results of the implementation of the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In order for us to start looking at the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we need to take our seats and start now. Dear colleagues, please report to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please don't tear up the report. Calm down, take their seats. Please have a seat. Look, there are five factions of Parliament, they signed a petition. I put him to the vote. On factions, find out who's voting for what. Please take your seats and lower your degree, because there will be important questions now. Please. Everyone, please sit down, take your seats. We've got a day's work to do. Look, you. So, I'm warning you, if you don't keep your voice down right now, I'm closing the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? All of it! Then calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down, please! You're welcome. So you and I have the Rules: the Prime Minister's report - in 30 minutes, the committee's report - 5 minutes, up to 5 minutes; other committees - if I wish to register, - in writing 11 committees registered for co-reports; discussion of the report - in 55 minutes, 5 minutes from the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Next, dear colleagues. Presentations by Ukrainian national deputies are three minutes for the performance. And we're going to continue to consider the draft itself of the Labour Assessment Order, the evaluation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to concentrate. We're starting a government report. Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you to the report of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u6	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, for the opportunity to address the members of the Ukrainian Parliament and to report for a year on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to start by saying that, in principle, throughout the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the first annual report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the procedure, we submitted the report to the profile committees 15 days before the issue began. And I am grateful to the members of Parliament for actively studying this report. Our ministers, our joint ministers, attended the meetings of the committees of profile. And so it can be noted that the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is fully in line with the regulatory and constitutional procedure. Our government was formed a year ago. Our government was formed a year ago by a parliamentary coalition. At that time, there were five factions in the parliamentary coalition, now the parliamentary coalition actually included four factions, but ministers from all factions except the faction that left the parliamentary coalition represented in this joint coalition government. The government was based on a coalition agreement signed by parliamentary elections and aimed at forming, indeed, the pro-European coalition, the pro-European majority and the pro-European Cabinet of Ministers. As a result of the signing of the Coalition Agreement, the Program of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers was approved. That is why I would like to report on every item approved by the Parliament of Ukraine and supported by the Parliamentary Coalition on the Government's Action Programme. I will allow myself not to take advantage of political rhetoric, but in today’s report, to keep the language exclusively with numbers and facts. Let me start by saying that the government is well aware that much has been done, but much more needs to be done. And we're ready for this work, and at the end of this report, I'm going to inform the members of Parliament. What key tasks has the government undertaken over the past 12 months? The first, the main problem, was financial and economic stability. The country was in debt, there was no money in the treasury account, there was nothing to pay wages and pensions, and the budget was completely balanced. So the first and the main problem is socio-economic stability. The other one. It's a matter of national security and defense. We started to form the Ukrainian army from scratch, and so it was necessary both to reform national security and defence, and to fight on the eastern front against Russian military aggression. And the third block is a block of progressive complex but correct reforms in all sectors of the economy: social, security, economic, deregulation, governance, the formation of new institutions to fight corruption. I'll start with security questions. The government, along with the parliamentary coalition, announced a new security policy. Parliament decided to reject the so-called non-block status, which was nothing more than a bribe to the Russian Federation for Ukraine to give up its prospect of becoming a NATO member. Therefore, our course, the course of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for full membership in the Alliance, was provided with appropriate reforms and adequate funding. Short on funding figures. If last year the total funding amounted to nearly 96 billion, we have increased this funding to 113 billion in the current year. 100,000 new helmets and armored vests, 34,000 new weapons to arm the Ukrainian Armed Forces, a series of new modernized Ukrainian and imported weapons are being adopted, a broad reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being carried out, beginning with logistics, providing for the Ukrainian Army, and ending with the financing of the Armed Forces. In particular, last year we took the path of raising social standards and salaries for Ukrainian military personnel serving in the anti-terrorist zone. In the current year, and thank you for supporting Parliament, Government and Parliament have managed to find funds to double the amount of money available to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As part of the reform of the Ukrainian army. The army was one of the first to go to electronic purchases. And that's the only reason that about 200 million dollars last year has already been saved from the fact that the acquisition of property and the material and technical security of the country's Armed Forces has been conducted in a transparent manner. In particular, I would like to point out that the government is carrying out its social function with regard to Ukrainian military personnel who served in the ATO zone and demobilized themselves. Some 160,000 Ukrainian military personnel have already become part of the antiterrorist operation. Together with our NATO partners, we have created six trust funds that carry out reforms in each individual sector of national security and defence, starting with the training and coordination of Ukrainian military personnel and completing new modern logistics. The task of the government and the country is to actually become NATO members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This means that all standards introduced in the Ukrainian Armed Forces must meet the standards of the North Atlantic Alliance. Within the framework of security policy, the government launched the European Wal. Ukraine finally started building a border with the Russian Federation. In total, more than 200 kilometers of anti-tank trenches have been built, more than 70 kilometers of fences, 32 towers, and several power stations have been installed over the state border. So far, we've only done about 20 percent of the work that needs to be done on the state border. The total amount that needs to be built is 2,000 kilometers, 400 kilometers from which we do not control today the power of Russian aggression. As part of our security policy, Ukraine has taken a very active position in attracting the Russian Federation to international and legal responsibility for illegal annexation of Crimea, Russian invasion of Donetsk and Lugansk territory and illegal occupation of part of Ukraine. A number of complaints against the Russian Federation have been filed before the European Court of Human Rights. The Ukrainian government is also working to bring Russia to justice before the international court of the United Nations for violating the International Convention on the Fight against Terrorism. We, as the Ukrainian State, have received broad support from the international community for the imposition of sanctions against the aggressor State. The United States, the European Union, the Great Seven countries have imposed financial, economic, personal and sectoral sanctions against Russia. Individually, the government has been invited by Parliament to adopt the Sanctions Act, and for the first time in the history of the country, we have an international legal mechanism for attracting any State that is an aggressor state, and today this aggressor state is the Russian Federation, to be responsible and impose appropriate sanctions. The decisions of the Ukrainian Security and Defence Council have also introduced personal and sectoral sanctions against Russian companies and Russian citizens, such as those introduced recently, when Ukraine, including banning Russian airlines from using Ukrainian space, air space. Our new security policy has also introduced a new information policy. We are grateful to Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Innovation. Ukrainian information policy is now struggling with Russian propaganda, which is actually obstinate. Hebbelsian propaganda only in Russian interpretation. The second cluster of issues directly related to the socio-economic situation of the country and the financing of the Ukrainian army is the Ukrainian economy. We were and are in extremely difficult economic conditions. The country lost a fifth of the state’s economic potential as a result of the Crimea’s invasion of Donetsk and Luhansk. The war brings billions of dollars out of Ukraine. War scares investors away. In the current situation, therefore, they were obliged to take very active action to stabilize the Ukrainian economy. Yes, the situation remains difficult, but there are the first signs of economic stability. For the first time in the last two years, the third and fourth quarters of last year showed a positive trend in the growth of gross domestic product. In the third quarter of the increase was 0.5 percent. Yesterday our statistical agency released the latest results on the fourth quarter of last year. Economic growth in the fourth quarter was 1.5 percent. I'm going to talk about the economic prospects for 2016. We've projected an economic growth rate of 2 percent in the current year. However, a number of new challenges that have arisen in the world can bend our predictions. I would also like to stop at a fiscal deficit, a deficit in public finances. If in 2014 the total deficit of public finances was more than 10 percent according to the International Monetary Fund methodology, in 2015 we were able to reduce the deficit of public finances by 5 times. And today this number is 2.1 percent. Thanks to our joint work with Parliament, the government's joint work has managed to improve the business environment in the country in some way. The best indicator is usually foreign investment. There was a flow of foreign investment here last year, usually exclusively in the banking sector. But so far we can't say that a foreign investor came to Ukraine last year to continue developing the economy, too many challenges and too many unresolved problems. However, the regulations that we have carried out with you -- the deregulation of the Ukrainian economy, the improvement of the business centre -- have enabled Ukraine to rise 29 points in the Doing Business in Ukraine world rating. As for our joint tax reform with you and the measures that need to be taken to improve the business environment. You and I have had too complex negotiations on the need for tax reform, but it's very good when we can find compromises. Ukraine has cut taxes twice. Let me remind you that we had 22 different taxes, and today there are 11 of them left. Part of these taxes were cancelled, some of these taxes were merged into one single tax. However, one of the key tax changes that took place last year is a double reduction in the only social contribution. It's about what's been said for 20 years, but no one's actually tried to solve it. We understood all the risks involved in deciding to double the wage tax. The first risk and the main risk is the country's pension fund. In view of the fact that the pension deficit is quite high, the government needs to find 100 billion dollars to finance the pension deficit. However, the government has halved its only social contribution with Parliament. It's a real step towards detening wages, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's a real step towards raising wages and social standards. I would like to inform Parliament of the first assessments of how the budget for a single social contribution is now being filled. If we count arithmetically, we should expect that we will have a drop in the income of the single social contribution twice as we have halved the EU. But the latest figures show that the only social contribution compared to the previous year is 86 percent. So there's a process of detinction and there's a process where people are starting to pay public and honest wages, not pay in envelopes. I'm going to focus on the issue of deregulation. We've gone through a phase where we've cut down a bunch of control and verification bodies. We cut them twice. However, a number of control organs still remain on paper, because the system has a serious resistance. We've doubled our licenses and licenses. There were 56 licenses and licenses, now there are 30. In the reform of the State Fiscal Service, where I stand alone, we have taken significant steps, first of all, to reduce the number of financial inspections on the ground. Now this number of inspections is 161 when there were 311 of them and we're still in the process of optimizing the structure of the State Fiscal Service. We thank Parliament for adopting a new legislation on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which ensures greater transparency and independence of antitrust bodies, as monopolies are a major problem in the way of creating a competitive and efficient economy. VAT. There have been many discussions about whether or not to introduce a tax administration system for added value. We had different visions here in Parliament. But you and I have introduced a new VAT administration system together. Thanks to this system, we have been able to raise about 2 billion VAT every month at least, without allowing fraud and financial apherists, using an imperfect VAT administration scheme, to recover funds from the state budget. Thanks to our joint efforts in adopting budget legislation, we went on with you when new VAT compensation registers were introduced that allow exporters and honest businessmen to automatically compensate for the added value tax. I'm going to go to government policy. I would also like to point out that, together with Parliament, a decision has been taken on the approval of Ukraine's new State Service Act. This is a revolutionary law that introduces a new system of government. In such a system of government, government secretaries are introduced into the respective ministries, as well as government officials will be chosen on transparent and competitive terms. The key element to be needed in public service reform is the wages paid to a civil servant. Two days ago, I signed a letter to our European partners asking that, during this transitional period, when the difficult economic situation in Ukraine, the European Union help and set up a fund directly for government officials to increase the level of salaries in the public service. This is another element of how to fight corruption in the public sector of the economy. Individually in government policy, it's decentralization. The process of decentralization began in the government when the current Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine assumed the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the country. Then we started real change and real decentralization. We started with financial decentralization. There were skeptics who said that the new Budget Code would not work, who said that it was just the income on paper, but not the real income that the local community would get. All you have to do is say the numbers and the facts. The fact is that local budget revenues increased by 42.5 percent last year. The fact is, in a monetary statement, it's plus 24 billion dollars that have gone to local self-government, sent to hospitals, schools, roads, infrastructure, and local self-government. We've done a very serious, joint work with you on deregulation of registers and on transfer, in fact, of business deregulation in places. Such a regulatory function implies that in Ukraine administrative services continue to be established. I want to mark separately the position of the Ministry of Justice that the Ministry of Justice has passed on its functions, which were previously held exclusively in the center for decades to control everything and collect money from everything. It passed these functions on to the registration of businesses, businesses, various forms of help and certificates directly in place. And from this rostrum, I urge the local self-government authorities to take advantage of this, because according to the legislation, 7,000 notaries have taken advantage of it, and this allows people not to go to the area, not to go to Kiev, but to go where they live, to get services and services from the state. We have funded 159 unified communities in the current year, and this process will go on. Last year, we took a joint decision with you to form a State Regional Development Fund to grant social and economic development subsidies to the regions concerned. The total amount of money that went into these programs is 3.3 billion dollars. 844 sites in various cities and villages have been built, including through the position of political parties and Marjorie deputies, as it was a public, transparent process of identifying projects that are necessary for a particular territorial community. But this process needs to go on. For example, it's a very good example of our cooperation in changing the public administration system, when we're here in Parliament, deciding how to finance roads. The road of Lviv-Johno-Frankivsk finally appeared, and it was a joint decision of all members of Parliament, and the government did it. And we will continue to build roads and invest money in specific infrastructure. New energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to welcome you to the fact that you are this Parliament, and we are this political class and this coalition that for the first time in the history of Ukrainian independence has not bought in the Russian Federation during the winter no cubic meter of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u7	Now, we have over 10 billion cubic meters of gas in our reserves. If you compare it to last year's rate, it's 2 billion cubic meters more gas than it was last year. Thanks to our energy efficiency program, we have managed to reduce natural gas consumption by 20 percent. That's 20 percent less money that went into Russia's Gazprom account, for which Russian Gazprom buys tanks, planes and finances its army along with the Kremlin regime, and that's our achievement. In the energy sector, we've also finally been able to give up brokers, gas oligarchs and a variety of shadow schemes that existed in the Ukrainian gas and energy sector. Now, the Ukrainian company NAC Naftogaz buys natural gas exclusively by means of transparent and public contracts in member countries of the European Union and in the leading six largest European companies. The price we buy in Europe is lower than the price offered by Russia's Gazprom. In particular, I would like to point out that Ukraine started a lawsuit last year against Russia's Gazprom on two contracts. The first is a sales contract. Ukraine demands $14 and a half billion from the Russian Federation. The second is a transit contract under which Ukraine demands $8.2 billion from Russia's Gazprom. The lawsuits are brought before the Stockholm Arbitration Court. I don't want to run ahead, but I hope that by the end of this year, the Stockholm Arbitration Court will have made the appropriate decisions in our favor because we have the right position. In our energy policy, you and I have changed rent rates to natural gas. There are two promising plans. If we're actively moving along the path of reform, if we're actively implementing energy efficiency measures, we've been able to become an energy independent state for five years now and rely solely on our own natural gas resources. We managed to keep a high stake for the so-called "Shared Activity" because it's dark and it's a fake scheme. And we call on those who stole the licenses to realize once again that there will be no other way. 70 percent is, is and will remain. Strictly transparent contracts and strictly transparent distribution agreements. On an energy issue, the government was most critical. The government is always critical, and that's normal, we're used to it, and we thank you very much for that. But the government was critical of our tariff policy. Yes, we changed tariffs, and we went along the way to place market rates throughout the country. In the first phase, we were able to provide a so-called tax standard for Ukrainian citizens, which is 200 cubic meters during the heating season. We realized that many millions of Ukrainians would not be able to pay such high tariffs. That's why the subsidy institute was introduced, and in Social Policy, I'm going to stop there. But those who need help from the state have received subsidies, and those who earn a lot of money have large houses and have to save and should not extract money from a poor person's pocket should get used to the fact that it is a market tariff, less gas consumption and more energy efficiency measures. In energy policy alone, I will stand at one of the greatest risks to Ukraine. This risk is the construction of the North Stream, and more specifically the second line of the North Stream. And I've made public contact with our European partners so that the North Stream is blocked. What does the construction of the North Stream mean for Ukraine and for Europe as a whole? This means that the Russian goal is to metallize the Ukrainian gas transport system, bypass Ukraine, rob Ukraine, Slovakia and Poland of billions of revenues from gas transit and actually create another monopoly on the energy market of the European Union. The low EU member states have already come under strict criticism of the Northern Stream. The European Commission began its consideration of the relevance of North Stream construction. "North Stream" has to be blocked. This is a threat to Ukraine's national and energy security and to a number of member states of the European Union. The Ukrainian gas transport system is modernized, it can get investors from our Western partners, it's the shortest and cheapest way to transport gas to the member countries of the European Union. And we have proven in recent years that Ukraine is a reliable transitor, and we will remain a reliable transitor. And we are sure that our European partners are ready to support Ukraine and, in fact, the European principles of energy independence. I would like to put an end to the issue of public property management and to thank Parliament for the recent adoption of the Ukrainian law, which allows for a transparent privatisation procedure. Last year we blocked the process of privatizing the Odessa Portion Plant because it was clear that no private investor would come, and the local oligarch would buy 5 percent, thus dissuading real foreign investors from privatizing state property. The second block, which deals with the management of those objects that cannot now be privatized, but where there is a need for a change in the management and management system of such companies. Last year, for the first time, with the help of USAID and our Western partners, there was a report of the 100 largest Ukrainian state companies. So the public financial statements of the 100 largest state companies were published. We started a so-called nomination committee last year. A nominee committee appointed by the heads of state companies. 277 heads of state companies were appointed through a nomination committee. What was the purpose and purpose of this nomination committee? I believe that no government, no ministers, no prime minister, no politicians, no administration, and no one else should have a bearing on the appointment of government leaders and direct administration of public property. The task is to create an independent nomination committee where 5 people are independent. A transparent competition, such as a competition in a series of state companies, and the appointment of such managers with specific KPIs for such a manager. I could say here, for example, a good example, one of the best examples, is the reform of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. The Institute of Independent Members of the Observation Board, the Institute of Actual Independent Directors and full depoliticization. And the absence of any political influence on one of the largest state companies. We've managed to regain control of the company Ukranafta with you. And after the stockholders' meetings, there's a new head of the company Skrnafta. And last year's government finally received dividends from the company Skrnaft for the first time in five years, amounting to 1 billion 780 million dollars. But the financial stability of Ukrnafta is far from perfect. And we're going to have to take joint action to keep the company, where 51 percent of the population, effective, regardless of the price of oil, 30 dollars, which is very difficult for any energy and oil company. The government started testing 20 state companies. And the State Financial Inspectorate, and more specifically, the new State Audit Service is doing the job right now. New food policy. I would like to brief you on what was achieved last year. Last year, Ukraine demonstrated a record export volume of 35 million tons of grains. The total amount of money received from exports of Ukrainian agrarian products amounts to $11 billion. It's a currency to the country and it's a financial stability of the country, including. What have we been able to do? The Russian Federation, as expected, for making its European choice, for having signed a free trade agreement with the European Union, introduced a trade embargo against Ukrainian goods. Ukraine responded by countermeasures, but we need to look for new markets. I would like to welcome members of Parliament with the fact that after you ratified the Agreement on Political Association and Economic Integration with the European Union, 10 Ukrainian agrarian companies have already entered the European market, which is very competitive and very complex. Because usually, competition in the agricultural sector is the strongest, but it's already done. Then we search and diversify markets. We have significantly reduced, in fact, four times, the dependence of the Ukrainian economy on Russia. The share of exports to the Russian Federation in the agricultural sector is actually 2 percent. Now nine countries are new markets for Ukrainian products – the EU, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and I'm going to separate China. Similarly, record exports to China in the current year. The New World, which is a Ukrainian brand, we've won, and now the Ukrainian champagne "New World", which is in Crimea, because Crimea is Ukraine, it's spilling in Ukraine, and it's our trademark. Agrarian support. This year, the agrarian support system has changed. Last year, all VAT went directly to agriculture. This year, we have made a compromise with you because of a difficult dialogue on how to support agrarians, but the 300 million dollars that were to compensate for the interest rate on Ukrainian agrarians have enabled the agrarian sector to attract about 8 billion dollars of credit, including small farms. About 2 billion dollars -- these were the costs of our European partners, our Western partners as donor funds for small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector. Ukraine takes first place among all countries of the world in oil, Ukraine takes first place in honey, Ukraine takes third place in grain. Social policy. Even though the situation was extremely difficult, the government managed to pay all wages and pensions in the last two years in a timely manner. Last year, the government and parliament managed to raise social standards by 13 percent and 19 percent respectively. We've cancelled special pensions with you. We have established a subsidy institution that covers 5.5 million Ukrainian families who need State assistance and receive such assistance from the State. ATO participants, starting with 7 thousand ATO participants receiving assistance from a special department on land development and ending with a broad rehabilitation program, treatment of anti-terrorists. The biggest challenge for us in the social sphere was temporary displacement. Officially registered temporary displaced persons are 1.7 million citizens, who are making payments that need to be integrated, who need to be employed, who need to be helped. In education, cooperation with our European partners has been ratified by Parliament and the government's Horizon 2020 Treaty, which enables Ukrainian scientists to access the financial and scientific resources of the European Union. The law on higher education has been voted on, it is now being implemented. It's a day's work. Thanks to this law, 80 so - called higher education institutions have been abolished, which have only produced diplomas and crippled children, not given knowledge. But in education, we have to keep moving, primarily preschool, science and technology and secondary education. The health department has finally taken a step on international procurement. And you know that the last international purchase of appropriate drugs has given us an opportunity to save about 60 percent of the amount that went to the appropriate state purchase. In culture, we ratified the Creative Europe Agreement. This access to 1.5 billion euros of European Union member countries for Ukrainian culture, it is a European culture that has been well developed in a large European family. At the Ukrainian movie this year, we also found 264 million dollars. And so it's important that the Ukrainian film develop. This is the best response to any Russian aggression and any Russian propaganda. Dear Members of Parliament, right now I would like to talk about 2016 and I would like your attention to hear what lies ahead of us regardless of what government is going to be here and who will be Prime Minister. A task for the country. The biggest challenge for the country is to fight poverty and create jobs. To do this, the country needs to invest. An honest and transparent privatization is needed to attract investment. I urge members of parliament to shorten the list of objects of privatization that are not subject to sale, leave exclusively strategic objects, put everything into public auctions and make it possible to create jobs, and invest here. The other one. These are new markets. The free trade agreement with the European Union is a major step forward. But this progress needs to be mastered, just as we still need to continue negotiations and sign the final Free Trade Agreement with Canada, which is already initialled, the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey (Yesterday we agreed with the Prime Minister of Turkey to renew negotiations that were suspended in 2013), with Israel and with other countries. State Fiscal Service. Wide and extensive reform of the DFS. I ask you to support the government's position that four customs officers be given international advisers to introduce new customs administration standards. This means that these customs are introduced by Twinning, a new information product and a new IT system are being introduced, and a new attitude towards the entrepreneur is actually being introduced with the help of Western firms, who know what the standards should be, and who will help in the experiment on these four customs to bring the order in. Po. I'm five more minutes, maybe this is the last performance, listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u8	Why so pessimistic, Arseny Petrovich. Please add five more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u9	Now I'm in the IRS. I.D.'s gonna have to be canceled. I ask you to support the decision to set up a European Model Financial Investigation Service. Demilitarized, not driven, not raided, but taken to the responsibility of the real taxpayers of tax legislation -- those who steal from the budget. Deregulation. We have a lot in common. We continue on the path of deregulation, by reducing permits and by reducing the influence of the central government, local governments directly on business. Socio-economic stability. Whoever the Prime Minister is and whatever the government is, there is no alternative but to continue to cooperate with international financial organizations and, above all, with the International Monetary Fund. If someone has another recipe, go out and show them where to take billions of dollars to balance the government's balance of payments, to stabilize the country's banking and economic sectors. I also publicly state that last year, all Ukrainian authorities, according to the Government’s Programme of Action, which is approved by the Parliamentary Coalition, are obliged to continue to reform energy tariffs. The next step is to change energy tariffs and actually increase them, which is April 1. So I also publicly state that this is the responsibility of the entire political class. The one who needs the grant receives it and the tariffs should be marketed. Third, these are state banks. The strategy of state banks is approved. Similarly, the depoliticization of state banks is complete. The government recapitalized them for 15 billion dollars. But for the banking sector to be stable, we need to continue the program with our Western partners, the IMF and the World Bank. And for business to develop, you have to give cheap and long loans to the Ukrainian economy. And that's possible when we do the inflation target of 12 percent. The lower inflation, the lower the rates in the real economy. This is only possible when we remain on the path of reform that we have been through the past 24 months. Corporate government of state companies. 150 state companies will receive new leaders, politically unattractive, independent, with appropriate professional qualifications. Our job is to continue the "State for People" policy. Services from the state are the National Police, it's deregulation, it's the transfer of registration functions down to places, it's a simplification of business, it's a simplification of registration. And we finally got what business registers in 24 hours. Our next task is real, not in the words of the fight against corruption. Dozens of anti-corruption bodies have been created. We have funded all anti-corruption bodies, starting with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, ending with the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Today, Parliament has decided to renew the electronic declaration for officials. As part of our fight against corruption, the government is doing its job: it's creating a system of government companies, it's transparency, it's depoliticization, it's a lack of political intervention, the law enforcement system, the prosecution and the anti-corruption prosecutor's office are doing their job -- it's an attraction to criminal responsibility. But this can only be done if the country has an honest and independent judicial system. Parliament has taken the first step towards changes to the Constitution. You accepted them in the first reading. However, I ask members of Parliament not to make such changes cosmetic. For the second reading, a new Law on the Status of Judges and Courtships must be adopted, not simply by renouncing judges but by renouncing each judge. And one who has committed a crime or has made an unjust decision must leave the court’s robe, preferably in handcuffs. And the one who continues to serve faithfully continues to serve and make decisions in the name of Ukraine. And for the positions of those who have been dismissed, there are new Ukrainian judges. Dear Members of Parliament, you have a decision to make today. This government has made the most of what it can do. We did this in a very complex political, economic and social environment. Much has been done by working together with Parliament. We are well aware that there is dissatisfaction: government dissatisfaction, parliamentary dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction with all institutions of Ukrainian power. But I urge you, no matter what your decision, we have no right to stop, we have made the foundation of a new country. Let's build a new Ukrainian house together, the new European Ukraine that this nation deserves. We will take any decision of this House. Regardless of this decision, I ask the Parliament, the President and the responsible political class to move on through reforms, this is the only right recipe for our country and for our future! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of order. the order of the discussion. Please give a presentation by the committee's chief, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. The report's up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u11	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished Arseni Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies! In accordance with constitutional requirements and article 228 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the government reports once a year on the implementation of its programme. For the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, this government, which we have formed, our coalition government has submitted a timely report. For two weeks, all the national MPs, all the profile committees had the opportunity to get to know the report. But I would like to say, especially to those critics who say that the report isn't so, it's wrong, it doesn't exactly fit all of our realities. This report is the result of our joint work: coalitions, the entire parliament and our coalition government. We were 11 on the Committee of Economic Policy listening to all the ministers of our coalition government. The meeting lasted more than four hours, and there was a very professional discussion, during which we found that we had started in all sectors of the economy, in all spheres of the state, irreversible reforms. And we came to a conclusion and voted almost unanimously that this movement cannot be stopped. If we stop, we will not continue to move this way of reforming our country, Ukraine will turn back, we will lose our historic chance. We heard the report, discussed it in detail, and a decision was made almost unanimously. At the request of article 228 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Economic Policy Committee proposes that the Supreme Council take note of a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on the progress and results of the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Programme of Action. The Economic Policy Committee introduced a corresponding draft decision (Registration No. 4050, February 11, 2016) for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the procedure, we have 16 committees to report on. We agreed that there would be a three-minute performance from the committee. Please, this is the first performance. They made all their suggestions in writing, so there's no point in writing them electronically. Angular Taras Viktorovich, agrarian committee. Do we have Taras Kutov? None. Please. Taras Kutov, please. Please, Ivan Krulko, Budget Committee. Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u13	Dear colleagues! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee of Budgets on the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. As we examine within the budget committee's competence the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in the past year, there is no doubt that we need to indicate how the Cabinet of Ministers adheres to budgetary discipline. And in this context, we believe that a violation of budgetary discipline, a break in the terms of the review of the State budget of Ukraine is absolutely unacceptable. Unfortunately, the shameful budgetary process at the end of 2014 and the constant adjustment of the State budget in 2015 have not been a good lesson for the government to do systematic work on the quality preparation of the 2016 State Budget. As we know, the Government Budget Bill for the 16th year was passed on December 11th last year, although it was due to be done under the Budget Code by September 15th. And the amended bill is only late on December 24th. Please tell me, under such conditions, did Parliament have the opportunity, or did the budget committee have the opportunity to properly consider the document? As a result, we are forced to correct deficits year after year because the budget process is falling apart. Already this year, we have made changes to the State Budget Act 2016, in particular with regard to the financial provision of vocational and technical education and compensation for the tax passage of individual categories of citizens. Everyone understands, of course, that the country is in difficult circumstances, but the procedure for adopting any document, especially the most important draft of the State Budget Act, is as important as what is written in this law. On this basis, therefore, the budget committee must indicate that the government’s work is unsatisfactory. And we ask that the government that comes to replace this government adhere to the Budget Code, not only to the deadlines for submitting the State Budget document, but to its consideration in the budget committee, to its consideration in Parliament, to prepare a report on the State Budget for the past year, and to prepare the main directions of budgetary policy. Then we can say that the government is implementing the Budget Code, and thus its work can be satisfying. So far, the score's not good enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, let's probably match the committee heads, they didn't give a record before. Let's now make a record from the committees, except for those who have already spoken. So let's define this turn of events, because heads fit. From the committees, just a minute, just focus, please, so that I don't pay any attention, it's fundamentally important. Recordings. Who wants committees, three minutes. What a committee would like to speak, please, but the committee's chairman determines this. Please sign up for the committee statement. Heads of committees. Yeah, fuel-energy. Dombrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u15	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies! Fuel and Energy Committee, first deputy or acting head of the Dombrovsky Committee, Alexander Georgievic. For there to be no questions about why or who is speaking. Dear colleagues, I am referring to that small group of national deputies who are in this room who voted twice for the Ukrainian government led by Arsenius Yatsenuk. It was a year ago, and it was a long time ago. Because we were clearly aware of the complex situation in which our country was facing -- war, the political crisis and many other challenges that the Ukrainian government had to face. But at the same time, on behalf of the committee today, I would like to highlight a few, in my view, principled positions. The first is unfortunately that we have failed and, in the first place, the government to establish a constructive, systemic dialogue between the government and between the Supreme Council. I don't mean a dialogue between the speaker and the Prime Minister, I mean a serious constructive dialogue about the implementation of the program that is based on the coalition. I am deeply sad today that the government has a very long decision - making procedure. Unfortunately, thanks to such a conservative decision-making process, which sometimes raises very pressing questions literally over a month, we have not been able to get to Parliament today, for example, a bill on the electricity market, which is so necessary for Ukrainian energy, which is much talked about here, about the need for its reform. Unfortunately, we have not received critical drafts, from the point of view of energy efficiency, which the Prime Minister spoke of from this rostrum today. It is therefore necessary to change the decision-making procedure of the Ukrainian government, and there is a fundamental need to change the system of coordination, the consolidation of work between the government and between the Ukrainian Parliament. And another fundamental moment. Sadly, I have not heard a word from this rostrum today about the need to combat poverty in our country. I am deeply convinced that the fight against poverty is taking place today. There are many things you can talk about, but this is a number one task not only to the Ukrainian Parliament but also to the Ukrainian government. And to the end. I have not heard a single word about the Ukrainian industry. I haven't heard a word about the innovative industrialization of Ukraine's economy. I didn't hear a word I said today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u16	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u17	I have not heard a word, unfortunately, about the breakthroughs in the Ukrainian economy, such as aviation, such as space, such as high technology. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u18	Finish up, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u19	We still have a lot to do with the Ukrainian government. But unfortunately, the negatives are much more that need to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u20	Please, Dubnevich Jaroslav, transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u21	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. At a meeting of the Transport Committee yesterday, the Minister of Infrastructure, Andrew Pivovarsky, was heard about the Ministry’s activities and government programs. In the field of railway reform, the Ministry announced the completion of the first phase of the reform of the rail transport system and the creation of the Pat "Ukrainian Railway". However, the government’s programme of activities and the Ministry’s declaration of implementation of vertically integrated management by types of business, the transparency of financial flows remained a declaration. There are no grounds to claim structural reforms that would ensure transparent tariffs, cancel cross-subsidisation, and make PAT profitable. There is no programme for the technical development of general rail transport for 16-25 years. As a result, it is not possible to establish an adequate financial plan, plan, and justify the need for an increase in freight tariffs. With regard to maritime and river transport reforms, there is an inefficient management by the Ministry of Strategic and State-owned Port Infrastructure and the failure to implement plans to deepen the state-owned Maritime Port Administration company, whose activities have not improved the efficiency of the use of state-owned seaports. Weaknesses have been detected in the use of port congregations and their lack of port development in the form of capital investments. The government's programme of activities was to implement road sector reforms that would improve road traffic performance, ensure effective State control over road load standards and avoid their destruction. However, according to the Ministry's activities in the 15th year, we did not see the results of the actions announced. The state-guaranteed loans from international financial organizations were not fully selected by the Ukrautodora, and the sample accounted for between 0 and 20 percent of the planned, which led to the failure of projects and the increase in IFF loans. The restructuring of the Ukrainian State Shareholder Company, which was to be completed by the end of 2015, has not been completed and is going in a different way than was foreseen by the Government's Programme of Action. In the area of motor and urban electric transport, the Government’s Programme of Action and the Mini Infrastructure Plan for Deregulation and Liberalization of the passenger transport market, the automotive services market, the settlement of the problems of illegal carriers, the deregulation of the authority of control and regulation of motor vehicles have not taken place. In summary, the Transport Committee's decision of 15 February 2016 was a majority decision to recognise the Ministry of Infrastructure's implementation activities in 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u22	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u23	With regard to the implementation of the Government's Programme of Action, the legislative plan for reform is unsatisfactory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u24	Please, Your Honor, Victor Halasyuk. Prepare Jehora Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u25	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! It's a very sad picture. I would like to inform you that a week ago, I went to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Mr. Abromavichus, and I informed Mr. Yatsenuk, Prime Minister, that a third hour yesterday, a committee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship was appointed to consider the economic component of the government's programme. So I asked absolutely specific and simple questions to the Minister of Economic Development and the Prime Minister not only to tell about what was being done, but to answer what are the results of government policy for the following directions: overcoming unemployment and creating new jobs; reducing the country's import dependency and developing domestic production; increasing exports of Ukrainian producers; investing in the real economy; developing small and medium-sized businesses; increasing the purchasing power of citizens. What do you think was the result? The result was that neither the minister nor any deputy minister came to the profile committee to report on the results of their long activities. So for now, there's no need to comment. In such a situation it is absolutely impossible to modernize the country, to change the economic course. We need a fundamental change in the workforce, a fundamental change in the economic course. What's more, the real picture of the country's economic and financial development. Having not received appropriate figures on these issues from the Ministry and from the Cabinet, our committee prepared such indicators, and you can get to know them, including in the watchtowers. Practically all of them have negative dynamics: job losses, loss of production, decline in catastrophic exports. As a result, each citizen feels in his own pocket. I have a question: what did the government have in mind all this time when it failed to implement a coalition agreement, including a chapter on accelerated economic development, which was essentially left at either the level of declarations, or was implemented by the forces of our committee and friendly deputies of all factions in practically guerrilla ways. What was the government thinking when it essentially ignored the industrial policy model that was prepared, approved by our committees as a road map for the development of the Ukrainian industry? Why were you doing deregulation, preparing privatization, raising IMF loans, not developing small and medium-sized businesses, developing industry, radical tax reform, childishing the economy, creating new importance? Tell me why you're saying one thing today, and you're doing something completely different. So I think that the answer to the government's work today is going to be the Ukrainian Parliament, every faction, and this has to be a completely direct and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u26	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u27	On the experience and conclusions of working with the government of our Committee against Corruption of the Supreme Council. First of all, I mean, we had good results. In particular, I would like to appoint the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. Along with him, we carried out important legislation on the opening of all property registers and took a very important step, helping the ministry and the government, allowing notaries and local self-government authorities to break the corrupt monopoly of state registrars on the registration of business and real estate agreements. This system has already been in operation for more than two places. And judging from the fact that there are no complaints from citizens, compared to the gross that was on the job of civil registration, that's a good decision. However, in 14 months of work, these may be the only good examples of our committee’s interaction with the government. We had dozens of important meetings when the obvious implementation of the laws of the Ukrainian Parliament had been blocked, sabotaged, or delayed. There were parliamentarians here who were helping to implement a very important anti-corruption law on the transfer of drugs to international organizations. Listen to what we didn't do on the committee to get this law done: twice gatherings, twice going to the minister of Kwiatschvili, taking care of the government, I, frankly, with President Alexander Daniluk's representative was forced to look for a government meeting that was in a secret place to say that the law was sabotaged and it kept the drug purchases through "pillars," which meant losing 40 percent of taxpayers' money and a health blow. Thank God, this law was enacted in the last days before the end of the year, and we have a chance to save that money. Well, finally, the worst part is that it was about managing state-owned enterprises and adopting budgets. These are two major sources of corruption: state enterprises, like actual cows, and taxpayers' money, how they can be stolen. As the budget has been approved, you and I all know, the more shameful approval we can't imagine. And all of our recommendations for a transparent management of state-owned enterprises from Ukrispirt to any other large company remained.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u28	Thank you. Please, Ludmila Denisov, social policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished Arseni Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed the results of the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers Programme in 2015 at its meeting on February 15, this year. I said the following. Of course, we need to support a government that, despite the country's high economic pressure to ensure the security of our country, provided social benefits to our citizens in 2015 in a timely and comprehensive manner. But we do realize that the rise in social standards that has taken place since September 1st is not yet a guarantee of a proper standard of living in the conditions in which the country is now living. So the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine needs to complete the social reform agenda so that citizens can feel the new social policy, feel the support of the state, feel the increase in their income. First of all, a pension reform is not just an end to the appointment of special pensions to individuals who, unfortunately, have not been brought to an end by the government. We need to eliminate the legislative gap and make changes to each of the social laws in order to ensure that these individuals are provided with the conditions of retirement. And this is not just the introduction of the cumulative level of the pension insurance system provided for in Government Bill 2767. According to the Committee on Social Policy’s consideration, it noted the significant risks of this adoption and the need for further development. You also need to change the solidarity pension system, and you need to review the pension formula. This is supported by both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Another way to do this is to provide targeted social benefits. We should not be proud today that 5.6 million citizens receive a grant. This was a big step in 2015 to provide citizens with tariff rises. Now you have to look at that in order to provide other social standards. The government needs to pay attention to the need to develop a plan of action for job creation and a new employment programme for the population. We know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u30	Ten seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u31	And that's why we're trying to do this with the government. But we have never, unfortunately, heard the opinion of the minister of social policy on the committee. He didn't come to the report either.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u32	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u33	And we will continue to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u34	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina. Modigal Olga Vadimovna, please. Modigal Olga Vadimovna, Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u35	Fellow dignitaries, the Health Committee three times during its meetings last year and once during this year recognized the work of the Ministry of Health as unsatisfactory. I thank all the deputies who joined the work of the State Commission in May, who also acknowledged the work of the Ministry of Health in May-months as unsatisfactory and put the Prime Minister on the table with a report that said the Minister would have decided to publish it within 10 days. The recommendations of this State Commission were to release the minister of health and his first deputy on the basis of an irresponsible attitude toward work, the ongoing work of reforming the health sector. I want to say that what the Ministry of Health is proud of today, in fact, 60 percent of the savings in international procurement, unfortunately only half of the 4 billion were transferred to international organizations, the rest of the 1.9 billion were distributed to the Ministry of Health according to the old schemes, and that was also able to save 60 percent. The Ministry of Health and the Prime Minister did not analyse the purchases last year and the question is: where did the 60 percent that could be saved last year and who was responsible for the absolutely irresponsible treatment of state funds? Little has been signed by the Prime Minister, who has cancelled reference or comparative prices, and today the law enforcement authorities are unable to compare the prices of international purchases with those at which the Ministry of Health operates. In addition, the Prime Minister signed an order that allowed the allowance to be increased in the retail network in pharmacies, thus raising prices for medicines of value. In addition to these observations, neither the concept nor the strategy has been approved as an official document for health reform to take place in the only right direction. Meanwhile, the only law in the year that the Minister of Health passed — the Act on the Autonomization of Hospitals — planned the bankruptcy of all health - care systems. Therefore, we consider the work of the minister of health, his first deputy to be just as unsatisfactory as the entire ministry. Once again, we urge and point out that without economic development, without the development and promotion of small and medium-sized businesses, without fulfilling budgets, all promises to raise social standards and health standards are political populism. So we're stressing the need to change the labor vector in order to make people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u36	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u37	So that people can finally get a decent salary, and so that the budget can be filled, so that health - care and access standards can be provided accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u38	Nina Petrovna Jujanina, Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As part of the government's report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers programme, the committee twice commissioned a review of the reports of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Fiscal Service on customs and tax policy improvement during 2015. Unfortunately, there was no meeting with the minister of finance in both cases. First, in response to the minister’s request to move to a different time, secondly, in connection with the holding of an extraordinary meeting of the government. The result was a hearing of the head of the State Fiscal Service on the implementation of tax and customs policy and a general discussion on government tax and customs policy. It should be noted that during 2015, 397 bills were submitted to the committee, 44 of which are only government bills, 3 of which have been revoked, are 10 percent of the general bills on our issue. As a result of the review, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has concluded 111 bills, 28 of them government bills, and others are in the work of the committee. 36 bills adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of which 13 are government bills. It has to be noted that according to the National Deputies of the Committee, a large number of bills have been prepared at a very low professional level. On this point, the committee repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine, but there were no significant changes in the drafting of the bills afterwards. The following facts testify to this. Of the 13 bills adopted by the Supreme Council, 10 bills have been extensively elaborated on the committee. Essentially, that means 50 percent or 90 percent of the amended text of the bill. For example, a law such as 344 on simplifying business conditions was introduced in a new edition. Law 643 on improving the electronic administration of VAT. A huge number of changes were made to ensure that the system truly worked and benefited the State and did not harm business subjects. This situation is due to the fact that the government did not work with the committee when drafting the bills, thereby ignoring our opinion, business communities and experts with whom the committee worked very productively. At the same time, it seems that there was a time when there was no systematic approach and a systematic understanding of tax and customs policy changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u40	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u41	Sadly, we can only solve temporary and tactical problems. This is evidenced by the government’s work on the changes made to the Tax Code that were necessary by the end of 2015. We've been working for almost six months, discussing the need to make changes with business associations and experts. And they weren't included in the government bill. That's why the new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u43	The draft law, the Tax Code in the new edition, was unfortunately not accepted by society and committee members either. I would like to conclude by saying that the sum totals of the government's work in this area are the delay and actual failure of tax reform, and that's obvious. It's just a declaration of reforming the government's fiscal service in return. It's a failed personnel policy, both in the State Fiscal Service and unfortunately in the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. So when we talked about how to determine how to evaluate the work of a profile committee. the department of profile, MPs, committee members, have proposed to assess the work in the form and implementation of tax and customs policies as unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u44	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u45	Good evening, dear friends. You know, a sad smile is caused by some sleep from this rostrum. You know, it's very right to say that you need investment. Yeah, maybe someone forgot: we've got a war coming. Tell me from history examples of when investments come and take place during the war. It's very nice to tell you that we need markets. You may have forgotten, but before the aggression, Russia was 35 percent of our contacts, and we lost this market. Someone forgot, maybe like in the early '90s, we paid our pensions and wages with flour and pots of night. I'm not going to sing to the government, I'm just going to point out that in two years for our defense and security we've done more than the last 25 combined. All applications, all defence and security programs are fully executed. [[Congrats]] That's what we've been up to this year, on average, 2.5-3 times. As a result, billions and billions of dollars go to sustain the viability of our nation and our future. I just want to say thank you, including the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense, and to all the members of our committee, that we, as a team, have done the same things and decided them. I just want to turn to everyone: every criticism exercise, every exercise demanding resignation. But let's think about what happens after that, is it going to be better or worse? And let's think about the motives of our concessions and our cries. On behalf of the committee and myself, I personally want to thank the Secretary of Defense, Prime Minister, for the fact that all our initiatives have been supported, implemented. And despite all this demagogism and populism, we're going to continue this course. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u46	Please, Hanna Hopko, Foreign Affairs Committee. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u47	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to say that the committee at its meeting heard the report of Paul Anatolyovich Klimkin, a professional minister, and we appreciated our cooperation with the Committee of Foreign Affairs with the Ministry quite positively. Why was it important for us to work as a national assembly in foreign policy? Because the threats facing the state are extremely dangerous, and it was important that Putin's leg not be in Kiev, that we care that fewer people die in the East. And that's why we worked very hard. At the same time, if we evaluate a year of work as a committee, except for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we also worked with the whole government, because we've been looking at a number of issues. One of the things that we've achieved is that finally our Ukraine stopped judging Australia because it wanted to place a stereotyped package. It was a huge disgrace that the previous government had done, and we stopped it. The government and the Prime Minister listened, and we resumed our relationship with Australia, which is very active and supports Ukraine in the Great Twenties. We've seen a lot of things like the economics of foreign policy. We have very few, and we do not want to be happy that since January 1st, the free trade zone with the EU has been working, because this does not automatically mean that our goods have entered the markets of the countries of the European Union. So we need to conquer the new markets of the world of Africa, the Middle East, China and so on. And very little has been done for that. We have repeatedly and together with the Committee on Industrial Policy to conduct and demand from the government: where the strategy for the promotion of Ukrainian exports, where the economy of foreign policy We have also done a lot to make Ukraine sound, not just as a victim of aggression, through cultural diplomacy in the world. And one of the important tasks for us in cultural diplomacy is that we understand that war in the East is a war against the identity of Ukraine. We are well aware that without Volodymyr, without Jaroslav, Russia’s wise history begins with the Golden Horde. And so this year it is very important for us to continue to promote Ukraine in the world. Why is this important? On the 25th anniversary of independence, we have the world to say that Ukraine is a country with over a thousand years of history, and we will win this war in the East. That's what I'm saying. 2016 will be one of the defining issues not only whether we will regain control of the Ukrainian-Russian border. Why is this important? Because in Munich, at a safe conference, where I was able to communicate for four days from the offices of Byden, Kerry, the councillors of Merkel, and so on. Ukraine’s questions no longer sound in the order of the day’s global order, and we will have to fight hard for transatlantic unity to help us win. And so I would like to say that 2016 is the year of the National Assembly, the year of the National Assembly Parliament, the government, the President's Administration. And that's why I really want to say that the historic chance, like 100 years ago, we didn't lose it with you. Glory to Ukraine! But to the M.E.S., the last claim. The committee will no longer tolerate it. And no.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u48	Finish up, Ghana Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u49	Ten seconds. The fact that there are no Ukrainian ambassadors in 16 countries around the world. These are important countries: Georgia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Hungary. We don't have an ambassador to NATO in Brussels, and he's in Russia. So let's think and work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u50	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, Committee on Environmental Policy Then Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, we have such a parliamentary tradition that the Prime Minister should start to respect Parliament, we need signatures for resignation. And I think it's a good thing that we're very late today, because I think it's worth listening to before the 2016 budget, there's been enough decisions by three committees or one faction manager, and not allowing such a disgrace as the budget that was approved for this year, and now we're going to correct it for a year. But I have the impression that we still have a new Byzantine political tradition, and I'm going to say with restraint pessimism that we don't know that since our vote today, we're going to end. But I'm talking about environmental positions. We have the most catastrophic problem in ecology, because different financial and political groups so wanted to steal our nadars, geology, water and everything in the world that they couldn't agree on a minister. And we don't have a minister, which means we don't have an environmental policy strategy. We don't have territorial bodies in the environmental field today, because there's no minister, there's no one to agree with. We today have no understanding of what to do in ecology, and when we decide to accept unsatisfying work from the Ministry, many people work there normally, but the work of a government that does not understand what needs to be invested in ecology rather than investing in health care. I heard about the war, I heard about the gas, I heard about the oil. Never heard of a Ukrainian person, never heard of a Ukrainian environment, not heard of a Ukrainian language, not heard of a Ukrainian interest. That's what the government has to do. You don't fight on the front. If they took the guns and fought, I'd warn you why you're hiding from this war. So I am absolutely convinced that under any circumstances environmental policy should become one of the priorities. Take 30 years of Chernobyl. The president issued a decree to honor the Chernobylites, all social programs this year are eliminated. It's kind of special. We're going to have parliamentary hearings here, and I'm going to have to ask you this question: what the Chernobyls are going to say for this year's 30th anniversary of Chernobyl, everything they can take is taken away. So don't give orders and decrees that you love 30-year-old Chernobyl, but take these social benefits. Same story with amber. We wrote the law. So two financial and political groups are fighting, and who's going to split and sell abroad. Well, let's take it to the second reading, vote it out, and then you'll share it. As long as we don't share anything, it's all out of here. In fact, on no environmental issue today do we have an understanding of government as to how to deal with it. And I'll say it in the end. I don't know if the games will win the money in this session room in the vote, but I believe that the pro-Russian and pro-American government will eventually be replaced by the pro-Ukrainian government. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u52	Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, on February 15, 2016, at its meeting, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government reviewed the report of the Cabinet of Ministers, and with a friendly visit, for the first time in the history of this cabinet, our committee was held by a professional minister, why we were so pleased. We had different opinions on government activities on the committee. We also noted the positive achievements that the Prime Minister mentioned today, particularly the State Service Act. It's a completely revolutionary law, it's a positive achievement. The only thing I want to point out is that in our committee and in this Parliament, this law was passed, well, it was 80 percent different from the government. [[Applause]] And despite the fact that at the time of drafting this bill, in fact, government officials took part in the committee's work, but once again, it was our committee and it was this Parliament that changed this law by 80 percent and made it really revolutionary by removing all the culinary fuses that tried to push it. Secondly, the Prime Minister, as a great achievement today from the rostrum, pointed out that he was very much asking our Western partners to raise their salaries to government officials. And I have a simple question to ask the government: and what, when the State Service Act was passed, the Ministry of Finance said with a scream that you can't raise the wages of government officials, that you can't do that, that they, as the Ministry of Finance, won't give money, they won't put it into the budget. Are these the double standards of this government? I answer for myself: yes, these are the double standards of this government, because on the committee one is one and on the rostrum is another. With regard to the question of decentralization, which our committee profiles. Indeed, there is progress in this direction. Indeed, this Parliament, this Parliament, has also approved the Decentralization Act, the voluntary unification of communities, and the Law on Community Cooperation. This Parliament did it, not this government, but this Parliament did it. As a committee in monitoring the implementation of this law, we did not point out once again that the work for the implementation of these laws by the government is not done in its entirety. Unfortunately, the government did not inform the population of the advantages of the Decentralization Act. Regrettably, the government’s lashes often violated the principle of volunteering. We were told that there was a huge increase in budgets, local budgets, by 42 percent. Of course, if inflation is 50 percent and income has increased by 42, is that a huge achievement, or is that, say, a small manipulation of the Prime Minister? I tend to the second answer, not the first. Unfortunately, on many occasions we noted on the committee that it was really mathematical.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u54	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u55	There is mathematical progress in increasing the budget’s revenues due to massive inflation, but this is largely true of district cities, cities of regional importance, and large cities. Unfortunately, base-level communities are small-town communities, villages and villages still have budget problems today, have completely distorted budget funding, have completely invalid things to talk about, and that's what we've been talking about on the committee. Regrettably, the committee lacked one vote to find the work of this government unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u56	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u57	Dear members of the government, honourable colleagues, on February 15, at the Euro Integration Committee, we reviewed the report of the government and in the presence of representatives of the Foreign Ministry, and we thank you for your cooperation with our Ministry of Profiles. Unfortunately, there was no representative of the Ministry of Economics that was as sensitive to us as any European and reformist practice. We want to thank the government, which has really started some reforms under such uneasy economic conditions and conditions of the world. We took the government's report to the public. But at the same time, I would like to take a few points of principle that we think we should pay attention to. First. It's worth paying attention to the government's inappropriate level of dialogue between the professional ministries, including the deputy ministers on Euro-integration issues, and even the government's Euro-Integration Office with the profile committee. We've prepared statistics that we've invited representatives of the government 36 times in the course of the debate on drafts -- and we're a specific committee where we need to take an expertise to match or inadequacy of any other bill to European standards -- so, of these 36 invitations, only 17 times we've been visited by government officials that are not normal. It is also strange that, despite the ratification of the Association Agreement and the important fact that Euro-integration has become part of the internal policy, the government has not been able to create a vice-premier on the issue of Euro-integration, but it should be created, and it should not be a ritual function, and this person should be given control and coordination functions between all ministries. It is also very important to set up a structure that will carry out a comprehensive analysis of legislation and draft legislation to comply with European Union law and Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement. It is very important, fellow officials, to establish a translation and terminology centre in the government, which is to provide for the official translation of national acts and acts of European Union legislation and to make proposals on issues related to the development of terminology and standardization. Today, much has been said about the work of the Ministry of Economics. And, unfortunately, when the Free Trade Zone was launched, the Ministry of Economics did not become the engine for the Ukrainian business to find new markets for our exporters who are now losing because of the embargo by the Russian Federation. We really need to develop a Ukrainian export strategy and export our external relations, help our partners today beat out additional preferences for certain kinds of products that are the most lost today. And also have additional security negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u59	Additional negotiations on transport in Ukrainian motor vehicles within the territory of EU member states. These are the absolute goals that the government must set for itself, and there must be a very active promoter of the free trade area that will help the Ukrainian business. That's why we're asking you to accept. We decided on the committee to take into account the government's report. But we're focusing our colleagues on the things that are probing about the integration and implementation of the Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, Mikola Knieżicki. Please, Your Honor, Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Our committee. Oh, yes, thank you. Our committee heard a report from the government. Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko was on our committee. We listened as required by the Rules, not the Ministry's report, but the government's report in the field of humanitarian policy took him to the fore. They said that, unfortunately. The government has failed to deliver on certain promises, especially this concept of humanitarian policy has not developed, but has achieved many successes, including signing and ratifying with us, and thanks to us the Creative Europe Programme has increased the financing of Derkino from 33 million dollars to 271 million dollars, increased. have preserved the tax on land by the tax of religious organizations. According to government decisions and the Code of Budget, public utilities can place the costs paid for their services in their current accounts, preserve the social security of cultural workers, finance the Institute of National Memory, determine its budget manager and implementation of state programmes, the decommunization programme implemented by the government, such as the National Memory Institute and the Ministry of Culture. Each of you knows, that's why they've taken a report from the government, understanding what the unforgivable conditions of the government are now. That is why we have pointed out to the government what we should achieve next year. That is why we expressed the hope that the pro-Ukrainian government would continue to work. In particular, I want to point out that, literally today, in one of the software, in large Ukrainian Internet videos, a software article was published, why this government should go. What gave me a personal warning? What it says at the end of this article is that we can give up money, the International Monetary Fund, and get this money out of big privatization, which is why this article was written. What does it mean to refuse the money of the International Monetary Fund? This means that not all Western companies will come into great privatization, which isn't just to be dragged here, what the government is working on, it means that Ukrainian oligarchs and companies from the former Soviet Union will come here. This means that all the power that we have done with the government in humanitarian politics by dismantling Lenin’s monument, changing the names, supporting the Ukrainian cinema, banning the Russian cinematographer, will be wasted, for we will again find ourselves, thanks to such institutions, with the Russian smog on our necks. So I urge you to support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u62	Thank you. Please, Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, today we have considered the report of the government in the Queen of Education and Science. There was a very sharp discussion, and this year we can celebrate the real achievements of education and science and the real problems and challenges of the same. In science, we've adopted a very important strategic Law on Science and Technology. So we've become an associate member of Horizon 2020. And this is a remarkable achievement that has opened up the possibility for our scientists to participate in funded European programmes. However, a fairly serious reduction in funding for science has now caused great confusion among the scientific community. We realize that we work with you at a very difficult time. And the government has to prioritize its spending. But we would like to call again and again both the government and all of us to bear in mind that education and science are part of the national security of the country. And that's why we need to look at the mechanisms for redistributing money into science in the future, not in the way of reducing it. In the field of education, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science have developed a large normative base in the higher education sector. There was an implementation of the Higher Education Act. Yeah, we think maybe there's more to be done in this area. But the implementation of the Higher Education Act is responsible for efforts not only by the government, but also by academic communities, and you and I. Secondary education is usually marked by a large number of problems. And now we need to translate the approach of secondary education from the scope of the conversation about optimisation to the level of conversation until the quality rises. So a review of the standards in secondary education has already begun, and the Education Act has also begun to be revised, and it has to be reformed. Dear colleagues, today the situation with vocational and technical education also tells us that the following year should be marked by the creation of regional plans, maps, educational maps of vocational secondary education in Ukraine. I'd like to do it now, considering what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u64	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u65	The last of the committee heads, to call upon every national MP present in this room and will vote. Ask, please, everyone -- I am asking myself this question -- at this point, as you will vote: and what have you personally done to enable the government to implement reforms, as we have done in these reforms. Please support the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u66	Please, Arthur the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u67	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! In preparation for the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the committee at its meeting reviewed the report of Social Policy Minister Paul Rosenck and Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Igor Zhdanov, and acknowledged their work as satisfactory. However, the committee wants to draw the attention of Ukrainian national deputies to some problems in the area of family politics, sports, and tourism. As part of decentralization, children's school funding, health and recreation are now being transferred to the local level. However, in a large part of the region, these programs are financed in accordance with the residual principle. Thus, children depend on the spirit of local leadership. I want to remind you that the Constitution recognizes that family, childhood, motherhood, and parenthood are protected by the State. That's why a state-wide policy on child development should be put in place, particularly in support of child-to-child sports, to ensure the recovery of children. To this end, subsidies from the State budget must be allocated: one subsidy to support child-to-child sport, another subsidy to ensure the recovery of children. However, this will solve only one problem, and that will be partly the case. Therefore, with a view to developing a strategy for the state of its future, the Committee proposes to consider, at the next government meeting, the issue of ensuring the rights of children in Ukraine, the issue of State investment in its future. Another strategic mistake is the efforts of the head of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to make physical education activities in higher education institutions optional. Of course, some students support such reform, some of which can be useful for themselves behind a beer bottle or a computer. Yet, a few years later, young people begin to regret the lack of attention given to sports, but the time lost cannot be restored. And most importantly, this reform will strike our country's defenses, because even now, a large number of applicants are not fit for military service. The question arises to the minister of education and science: Does Mr. Flower care about the health of the students and their future? Probably not. I also want to draw attention to the problems of the country’s tourism industry. Regrettably, the management of the Mineconomy does not give much attention to this issue, which relates to its competence. And it did not even appear at our committee meeting to consider Mr. Abromavichus ’ report on tourism issues. The Minister of Economics has been able to create a structural unit of up to 5 people in charge of tourism in a year. However, we believe that the tourism sector can and should become a locomotive for the development of the Ukrainian economy, a source of public and local budgets. Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u68	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u69	Ukraine should set an example from countries such as Georgia, Croatia, Montenegro, and Europe. Dear colleagues, we hope that the next government will work much harder. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's statements have been completed. We're moving on to the report. And I'm asking groups and factions to sign up. It'll be five minutes. Five minutes from factions and groups. Please log in. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u71	We agreed, five minutes. Dear Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u72	Order, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u73	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank the government of Arsen Yatsenuk for the much useful he has done for Ukraine. And yet neither Parliament nor society are satisfied with the work of this government. Unfortunately, the government does not want to admit it. Having celebrated in Parliament a fast-tracked report, in fact, in two, about three blocks at present. Last year, he didn't want to have a professional discussion on the committees, having actually had one committee, but on a full-time talk show, he's talking about his next grand plans. In doing so, he says that everything would have been fine if the Parliament had not pressured him, hindered him, and celebrated the text. Of course, you can move the arrows to parliament, it's really not the best. But the thing is, this is the Parliament that hired you, gentlemen of the government, to work to combat corruption and reform. And it wasn't yesterday, it wasn't yesterday, it was a year ago. Of course, let's take the simple stuff, the APK. The government is constantly struggling with the security guard in the agribusiness complex. I understand that's in principle understandable, because it's an agreement with the IMF, that's all clear. Or we could just do farming. And you can make sure that they don't pay $400 per hectare of land at each graduation in Derzkomzem A, you can make the Agrarian Fund buy grain from farmers, not 70 per cent from one of the largest monopolists. What should we do about it? You've had a year. Let's take another thing. Why do you have to tell me how many state-owned enterprises? At the APC, 400 state-owned enterprises. The minister has four meatcombs, four artificial insemination sites. Is this the minister's job? So he can finally sell this whole party corruption nursery and run effective farming in the countryside. We're talking a lot today thanks to the action of Economic Minister Ivaras Abromavichus, for which I am personally grateful to him for the corruption of assigning a leader to a state-owned enterprise. The director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau reported a figure of 110 billion dollars a year in damages to state enterprises. Question is, what did you do for a year, gentlemen? Why did you send here last week a bill to break contracts with all the executives to finally bring in responsible managers? Tell me, who prevented you from taking out party leaders in Energoatom, Easter, Crushing East, in other state-owned enterprises to make people understand what this is all about? The electrician sells 70 percent of its production through two British pads, with 20 to 50 percent off at a circulation of 2 billion dollars. It's hundreds of millions that don't get the government pocket, but the golden eggs get someone sent by the parties. And don't tell me that's where everyone went. You're looking at Lucenko. I've been to two Mayans. I was in prison. My son was at war. And I don't care what political power he steals! Go after them all! That was your job! You had a year! [[Applause]] And if the government didn't do it in a year, and by the way, it was the function of the Minister of Economics of Abromavichus, it was as much sabotage as possible, and as much as possible, it was complicit in the looting of a warring country. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on: Customs. Who hasn't heard from her this year? I have official documents in my hands, the difference between the tariffs of Kiev's customs and Kiev's district customs: in Kiev's district customs due to the undercutting of tariffs from the state level goes through the flow of goods, the state did not get just one billion dollars in December, slightly more specifically – 956 million dollars. In a month! Tell me, can I accept the government's activity as satisfactory? One billion a month loses the country in just one district customs. Kaletnik's people came back, Taras Kozak's people came back, he remembers all of Western Ukraine, but the government says he's fighting corruption effectively, so he doesn't have to go to Parliament. That, gentlemen of the government, is why a teacher gets 2,000, 200 dollars a month at the age of 40. Two thousand 200 bucks! Because you've got a billion under your nose in Kiev stealing a month's worth of customs! You're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u74	Finish it, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u75	You're saying that Parliament prevents you from fighting corruption, you're saying that the prosecutor's office, the NABU, the SBU doesn't work. The U.S. has caught a "hot" with colossal costs of leadership that you didn't want to take away from positions afterwards. Here's a letter from the President asking you to remove it, but you'd better remove the Employment Service and the Export Control Service. You think you got it? There's no time, because we're writing the principles of interaction between branches of power, the authorities that are already sitting on captured "hot" corrupts! Respectable as a government. I want to say very calmly: the foundation of any non-popular government should be not only the fight against corruption, but the work on the economy. Dear friends, we must remember now. We're all ashamed to walk the streets. I'll tell you about myself. I'm always ashamed of myself. I saw people with a minimum pension in elections, and I live next door to them. A thousand 74 bracelets a month. Tell you why? Because the government has forgotten the simple thing: in this country, 43 million people, 14 million pensioners, 11 million workers, 7 million of whom do not pay taxes, because they have three minimum wages, another million at a simplified tax, and only 3 million pay taxes, 3 million keep a 43 million-dollar country. Citizens of the government, where are the new jobs? Where are the new markets? Where is the incentive for export? Where is the fight for European economic integration? I'll tell you where. This year, out of 15,000 standards, only 2.5 thousand have succeeded in bringing European standards into line. What new markets are we talking about? What kind of market promotion and job creation are we talking about? Where are the export credit offices? Where are the other institutions that Parliament has long enacted? I'm sorry, I'm done. Dear friends, I see today that many government officials feel insulted by the question of disgruntled government work, are our colleagues, many of them are just our friends and friends. But let me tell you why 70 percent of people demand your resignation. Because these people see you stop. About last September, the October government stopped and just protected its posts, and nothing changes in the country. People see that you haven't sewed up your pockets or moved anything in this country's reforms. They are poor living, suffering, willing to suffer, but do, move this country forward. Instead, we hear about new grand plans, but not about what we've done, about what we want, but not what we're doing. Dear friends, people in despair of what the Prime Minister and the government have said so well, but so little of this has been felt in our lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you more clearly: we've all forgotten the smell of burning tires on Maidan. We just started forgetting what we were swearing! This country cannot continue to tolerate government inactivity! We just have to move forward! I'm not going against Arsenius Yatsenyuk or any particular minister. I'm going against what we've stopped, which means we're going to lose. In a war situation, it's worse than Alice: to stand, Alice had to run. To move, we have to run all together, and fight, punch our heads, if you want, this wall. Dear Arseny Petrovich, I know how much you've done for the country. I say that without any irony. Arsenija Yatsenyuk was able to do what none of the previous prime ministers could do. We made a number of very important decisions. I know that every manager -- and I've been a leader -- thinks he's a little short on making it work. But it's time, we're all temporary. And don't tell me about the war, because if you're talking about the war, you have to use the kamikaze as an assignment! Think of the people! Today, the President has stated that mistrust means 70 percent that the Attorney General has to leave, and mistrust 70 percent means that the government has to exercise its authority. On behalf of the faction of Peter Prashenko and colleagues from Fatherland, Self-Help, the Radical Party and other deputies, we have filed 150 signatures for the vote for the resolution of mistrust, registered the Order under number 4080. And we ask that we vote today to change the situation in the government. Ukraine has to move. We are fighting not for the government, but for the changes in this country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I didn't want to stop Yuri Vitaliovich, but he lasted 10 minutes. So it will be absolutely fair when each faction leader can speak within 10 minutes. But I would ask everyone to be as concise as possible. Oleg marshmallows. And we don't double the rules anymore. Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u77	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Ukraine! I want to start by saying thank you. For any work we have to thank and thank the ministers for having worked for more than a year in their difficult jobs. [[Applause]] But it is sad to hear today that we are proud to say that for the first time in Ukraine’s recent history, a full report of the government took place. What does that mean? For the first time in Ukraine’s recent history, weights and opposition have emerged in Parliament. A parliament has come into existence that has made the government subordination, its derivative, and that means that it has a future. Because only the weights and the opposites of governance, public administration, are effective. Dear colleagues, the government is a team that is elected by Parliament, a team that aims to unite, motivate and manage state processes in the country. And we hoped it would be such a team. And it's part of the team, and there are people who are very high-quality managers. But was it a public administration team that could lead? Even today’s report illustrates that this did not happen. Because today’s report was a report of statistics, tariffs, and all kinds of mechanical things. I agree with Deputy Tomenko, there was no analysis in today’s report of why or why it did not happen. Today’s report did not contain a person for whom tariffs were being raised or lowered, nor did the government have a motive for working. And that's a sign of a lack of basic public administration. The Prime Minister in our mind is a person, a manager, a public manager, a political manager. A man who, with strategies and principles in his head, guides people. What have we had besides success? We had double standards, we had a path that was uneasy, and sometimes we made quality decisions with you and the government, not for, but against. I'm not a specialist in economics and finance, but I was the world of saga, which I call the EU. Excuse me, the government has convinced us that this is not the case, and the government has convinced us of a huge gap that will form and destroy the Ukrainian financial system. Today, I thank the government for its honesty. The government said it was the right thing to do. But this Parliament insisted on doing these things, and they are for the Ukrainians. Parliament is therefore an organ of government and collective thinking, which is the foundation of public administration in the state. Another saga is decentralization. It was made by the government and this Parliament. But what happened in the budget this year? Financial decentralization was virtually destroyed in the budget this year, and only through the active and harsh position of Parliament and personally of the Supreme Council did Parliament stand firm. It's a double standard, and it's an incomprehensible goal. The budget itself is an apophet, an apophet of misunderstanding, and its form of acceptance is an apophet of contempt for the Ukrainian Parliament and for the Ukrainian human being. It can't be like that. And when the government became the first government to report under the law in Ukraine's new history, it must be the first government to be punished for violating the rules of public administration, working on the most important document of the country and its activities, the budget. Because the next government will take advantage of this fantastic experience and respect the rules of public administration. Otherwise, no government works, including the public. Corruption is in the tongue. I won't talk much about it. I just want to ask the government. We took it so hard in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u78	Please continue for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u79	We've had such a hard time adopting a law in this room called the Scrooge Act. Remember this saga several months ago. And thanks to the obsessiveness of the MPs, we passed a government bill. As a result, we got 1.7 billion dollars of dividends in the budget. But what I want to ask the government is, why did we lose 10 billion dollars to the fact that Skrnaft sold oil for 5 percent of the advance? Today, 50 percent of those in debt no longer exist in nature. Where's 10 billion dollars? Where is the management of the state-owned enterprise? Is this the fight against corruption? No, it's not. It's mimicry and contempt for public administration. We worked very closely as a faction with the government at the customs office. We have another annual budget for the country at the customs office. Today, I welcome the government's call for customs reform. But it had to be done a year ago, because customs are the main source of corruption in this country and disrespect for the person who even lives on corruption on this, on this customs. This is a defamation of human life in Ukraine. And the promises that we hear today in the program for the next 12 months, unfortunately, from the annual experience of cooperation with a public government tool in the state fall under the proverb of Ukrainian: "A promise-winning and stupid is joy." During the 25 years of the development of the Ukrainian institutional state of fools, there has been a decline. So we support the government's position to move on. 'Come on,' wrote Shevchenko,'my little girl! My friend is poor, but he's cunning!" The government has to be an example, it has to agree with Parliament today, retire and together in this coalition build a new government that will have a trust loan, people first, and make those things together that will make the state successful, raise confidence in the state institution. And you and I are going to explain to people why they have to live or exist. So, no doubt, let's move on, because our destiny tells us that there is still only one goal and goal: the glory of this country and the well-being of these people. "Go on, go on, glory, and glory is my commandment." This is our destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u80	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u81	Dear Mr. Head, the honorable government of Ukraine, the national deputies! During a year and a half, this government has already established a pattern. Its essence is simple: the worse things are going to happen in the economy, the more government officials speak up with the Prime Minister, the brighter they beat their political opponents and show plans for the future. What has been the government’s business card for the past year and a half? The first is completely misunderstood and unpredictable tax, especially customs policy, and this is where we have to be honest, and the legislation that's been changing every three months. There is no sector-wide support for the domestic industry, which has led to the dismantling of entire industries. For example, during the last five and a half years, we have completely lost the automotive sector, where we have only two of the nine factories left today. There was no active support for the lobbying part in the healthy sense of the domestic manufacturer in the external markets, and the export agency remained on paper. There were virtually no credits available for negotiable funds for businesses. And it all turned out very well that after a year and a year and a half of government, we came to the loss of a quarter of our industry, and that's not without Donbas and the Crimea. We came with the dismantling of these industries, not just automobile construction, but also coal. We have come to abuse farmers, who today are 100,000 on the verge of stopping their farms. We've lost 20 billion exports and lost two thirds of the population's income. That's what we came up with after work, a year and a half of our government's work. A few words about government's special pride -- energy policy. In energy for people, for Ukrainian consumers, and this is people and industry, there are two indicators. The first is the cost of energy resources, because for people it's a direct road to tariffs, for industry it's the competitiveness of the output, and the output is the jobs and the energy independence of the state. All the other things government officials said were the interior kitchens of ministries, departments, departments, oil and gas stations, all the other offices that do energy. Taking into account what has happened to increase the cost of energy resources and thus tariffs, to increase the cost of energy resources for businesses and to reduce their competitiveness accordingly, we can say that the government has not worked enough in this field. So in summary, the position of our faction is that we are waiting for a decree on the government's unsatisfactory work and will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u83	Dear friends, I am listening carefully to what we are discussing, and I want to tell you what resignation of the government are we talking about? We're the ones who broke up our statement. What kind of resignation? You know, 70 percent don't like this government, 70 percent of the population has been poor, they don't have anything, they cry, I drive around the region. There can only be one evaluation of the Government. Dear friends, you've all come to this hall to protect the people of Ukraine. Here's the government's assessment! There she is! We don't just have to give, listen, not just resign. We must return everything they stole, we must take Ukraine for the first time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Our country's rise will begin when they're planted, dear friends. Shut your mouth! Let me tell you! [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me! Stop it, you're already screwed! You're nuts! You've gone to hell before people have nothing to live for! You've got it all figured out. Look, you come out with me right now, you're standing on Maidan, you come out with me now, to the people who sent you, they'll tell you that you're standing there and what your evaluation is. Dear friends, I ask you once in your life, believe me, for once in your life, forget what they've offered you. Remember that the people of Ukraine are behind you, send them to prison, and we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u84	Victor Bondar, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u85	Take your clothes, you forgot. Pass it, please. Please, Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u86	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't know who likes this circus that the whole country is watching today. I don't know who likes this year that this country has lived. I don't know if 70 percent, or maybe all 100 percent, of the power, of this coalition, of this coalition that's been giving us a whole new circus of everything that they've done with their own hands this year. I'm surprised to hear these hysterias today and the calls of the leaders of the coalition factions who are breaking up the government today, who have created with their own hands, in which they have delegated most of every faction of their ministers. Hasn't the Ministry of Economics, Energy, Infrastructure, Finance still not given the quota to BPT? But you have the same responsibility for government as they do. And People's Front, and Booth and Self-Help. Some ministers have been flying charters for a year, and then something else, some have been successful in agrarian farming, and now they're moving away from it, they don't know how to drive it out of government, they call it off, and he tells them that I don't want to hear you, you're not interested anymore, you've got me there. And then they don't know how to change the government, because the ministers are no longer handmade. Emissary, commission -- you've put the government in a deadlock, along with your coalition. Parliament has lost control of the government. Parliament has simply ruined itself by your behavior, by your leaders, who danced the general game and made the first year of appearance that nothing terrible is happening in Ukraine. Corruption, soiled and so forth. What scenarios are you still preparing for us? Have you had any economic programs in a year? No, it's not. Was it a strategic goal? No, it's not. Did you take a branch to the shield and say that this is a promising sector that you can pick up, and on account of this area, do you make a monetary return, an export orientation, or some perspective? No, it's not. They didn't do anything. Now you're breaking up. Two months looking for the extremes, looking for the ministers of the extremes, didn't go out on the ministers, let's get the whole government to rebel. You're just distracting people from the real events that have taken place in the country with your help for a year: from impoverishment, from disruption, from everything we see today. We go out and ask people, they'll all confirm it. What happens next? And then the scariest thing happens. Then came a month of culinary negotiations, as well as a minister to whom to exchange, who to run state enterprises, who to direct corruption flows. And you yourself, in Parliament, created this situation once again, when the culinary arrangements went out again, you started to spin the "culular film" again, like who, where you're going to be after we call this government down. You don't think about what the new economic policy is going to be, what is going to be in energy, what is going to be in transport, what is going to be social protection, how are we going to raise wages and pensions, how are we going to finally get rid of these utility tariffs that people can't draw today? That's not what you're talking about. You're talking about who's going to be where again. And we've been trying to talk about it all around here: give us voices, support, divorce, we need that, we need that. But you're playing a movie, which in advance was clear on what it would end. And today we see the farce again. Today's main goal: let's "kill" the government. What's next? We'll work it out. Who will be the new government that has human potential? You're going to be out on the street again, catching people or bringing them from abroad, changing passports? What are you planning to do? What will be the economic policy, what is your strategy? You cannot go blind again in one day simply because someone wanted to become prime minister or minister. Give us a clear plan of action of the coalition that you see, professionally what kind of people will be, who know the field that will support them, who have a plan of action for at least six months, give us a glimpse of your policy of economic, political, foreign policy, defence policy and so on, and then we're ready to sit down with you. But it will be a real normal plan of action by then, and the whole country will know what Parliament is signing for, what Parliament is signing for, and what this government and Parliament will continue to do. Unfortunately, we see that you're doing the farce again today, you're doing the circus again, and we don't want any part of this farce and circus. Destroy what you have done. God will let people see in six months: you don't want to, you don't know -- get out of the coalition, you break down, you win the election -- and people will give you an assessment. We will not take part in this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, when we finally found out when the government report was being heard, I used Facebook to ask Ukrainian citizens what questions they would like to hear to the Prime Minister. Less than 2,000 questions from Ukrainian citizens. Ninety percent of them, the respected Arsenius Petrovich, are an uncensored wish. The worst of these wishes is that I quote only one quote. Aunt Ruddick: "Tell him to live his whole life for a thousand bracelets." Now for the questions. I want to ask you a few questions, since there are thousands of questions from people. I want to quote literally from the parliamentary rostrum so that you can hear what people think. Mikola Zaverucha: "Retirement of Excise Assembly for Car Use." "Why cancel payments to normal women who raise normal children themselves?" Olga Scherbina: "I have a small business, the police are demanding money, they're threatening. So where is the end of corruption?" Violet Schmigelska: "Why isn't she completely funded by the medicines of the children's hospital?" Other Petrova's quality of gas: "He's diluted or inconvenient, the counter's spinning like crazy." Olga Shevchenko: "I really want the Prime Minister to tell you how to divide the pension into life and treatment of a thousand 200 dollars." And thousands of questions like that, questions like that. Arseny Petrovich, you are today much, not just today, and yesterday, and the day before yesterday, you have these wonderful ten-minute ratings where the people are looking at where you talk about the success of your government, where you talk about the success of your economic policy. You've forgotten one thing: what is the purpose of reform? One of the famous people said, "When you get to the finish line, it's important not to forget what you went there for." Yes, when you talk about reforms, you forget that the key purpose of all your reforms is to raise the standard of living of people. Your reforms have to be put in each person's pocket, that's where the money is, that's what your reforms are. When there is no money, when millions of beggars, when small and medium - sized businesses are destroyed, and large ones, including the oligarchs, are almost gone, thank God. Thank God! For the oligarchs, yes, thank God. What small and medium-sized businesses don't have, farmers don't have, people who can feed their families don't have, it's not reform, it's genocide. Arsenius Petrovich, I quote you. You said, "There's no alternative but to the International Monetary Fund's loans, there's no other recipe. And who knows, come out and tell me." So let me tell you, Arseny Petrovich, another recipe besides the International Monetary Fund loans. The International Monetary Fund's credits are supposed to be a tool for economic growth, but they can't be an economic growth, because the main thing in economic growth is what your famous reformer, Minister of Economic Development Abromavicus, doesn't know. It's the development of its own industry, it's the support of small and medium-sized businesses, it's the promotion of Ukrainian exports, it's tax reform, it's childishization of wages -- that's what you had to do to raise citizens' income. This is the key objective of your reform: a radical increase in wages and pensions. And when you, Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, talk about the success of the reforms -- this is the International Monetary Fund's loans -- I want to tell you that the real indicator of the success of the reforms is the cessation of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund because of financial independence and economic growth, not the constant increase in dependence on international creditors. Then it'll be a success. And now I want to tell you. Dear friends, and, above all, there are few friends in this room, and all who smile will take advantage of the opportunity to put the knife in the back as soon as you are weak. I want to talk to Ukrainian citizens: this place where the highest cynicism in the country is the concentration of cynicism. When I see statements by coalition factions that will invade that government like a curse, they're doing everything right, because it's popular today. They're just forgetting to say that they're equally responsible for the government, that most of the ministers there, in this government, are the representatives of the BP, they're the President's. And the President has the same responsibility for this cursed government as the parliamentary coalition. And when we talk about the success of reforms, the success of reforms is not just government activity, it's the activity of the Attorney General, who finally resigned a year later, and we and Self-Help didn't vote a year ago and we urged Parliament not to do that. You made a deal with the thief's block. Shockin was voted out, and he discredited the country’s lack of reform. When we talk about the success of reforms, it's a monetary policy. There will be no success in reforms when credits in a commercial bank are below 40 percent of the age. And whatever the government is, but when the head of the National Bank of Monetary Speculation earns in a day so much that the people won't make a living, if I were Prime Minister, I'd have two outcomes: either shoot myself, or shoot the Hontarevo for what she does with the money. Arseny Petrovich, your policy, your government policy, the President's policy, the National Bank's policy -- no real fight against corruption, no reform in the judiciary, no reform in the law enforcement system, and no investor's policy, because no investor will come here when a selling court is opened and closed for money, when a bag of money needs to be brought to public enterprises to get permission from the government. So you're in charge of that. Our proposals, our proposals to the Radical Party. Today’s coalition, today’s power, today’s government have brought the country into the pen. We're standing on the threshold of shock. Anyone who doesn't feel it, smell the air, in the air a thunderstorm. As my colleague Lucenko put it, they forgot the smell of tires. Well, it's not just the smell of tires, it's in the air, it's a storm that's going to take everyone out, especially those who forgot what you came for. Who has forgotten who you owe your chairs to? How many thousands of people have died on Maidan, on the front to sit in these chairs. They did not die for you to sit in your chairs and rob. They didn't die for it. that you may sit in your chairs and turn people into beggars. They didn't die for it. So they can be cynically cheated. You're asking why the crisis? Because the authorities are cursing people because they see that the words of power are inconvenient to the actions of power, which is why the crisis is. Because you've forgotten about Majdan, and it's time to remind you. There'll be no tires here. When people were standing on the Maidan, there were no weapons, now everyone else has weapons. And if you don't realize that you have to make real reforms if you don't realize that you're stealing and lying enough if you don't realize that the country has changed. You haven't changed, you fools have changed, people have changed. They will stop you from stealing, lying, and robbing the country. Because those thousands of victims who were loyal were not loyal to it, so that you could still think that you could only change the political class without changing the rules of the game without fighting corruption without raising the country. What does the Radical Party offer? Obviously, the government is likely to resign. Our faction will vote for the mistrust of the government and for the recognition of his work as unsatisfactory. But what next? Then there are two choices: either a timely election, or the formation of a new coalition, a new program, and a new government. Early elections are the path to destabilization. You see how the members of the burglary block are revived, you see how they run with their handcuffs? You put those cuffs on first. The regions that today’s authorities are sitting in the Supreme Council are sitting in the Supreme Council and are not responding. And it's also a matter of power, to the President, to the government, to the Henprocuror. Why are they sitting in Parliament? Why are they not called to account? Why do you make deals with them? So we're offering the country a plan of action. Radical anti-crisis reforms, radical political reforms, radically increasing the level of responsibility of the political class to its fellow citizens. We offer the country radical, decisive reforms. We don't have time. In the past century, three soldiers, dozens of wounded who had forgotten, were killed. The war will be over by the time you're relaxed here, dear colleagues. We don't have time. We have no historical opportunity or responsibility to lose the country. So I call for decisive action, for radical change in economic policy, for radical change in government. The Radical Party faction is ready to be in the fairway, in the vanguard of all these radical reforms to improve Ukrainian living standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u89	Thank you. Please, Litwin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, "The Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u90	Dear Head, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! No questions asked, the government worked in extreme conditions. And you have to say that this government obviously did the most difficult, blackest and probably the most dirty work. It broke the system that kind of worked and provided a more or less acceptable life for people. He sucked out, drained all the juices in society for what the government calls reform. And it is obvious that people today who observe this issue are angry. Obviously, they're aggressively set up, and they don't take us all in. And I don't think there's any need to try to get away from the government, because everyone's responsible. Both the government and the entire Supreme Council without exception. Because when necessary, they voted and made the necessary decisions. But I was hoping that today would be a serious conversation, a moment of truth. He hoped he would have a normal speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine that he would have a dialogue with society. He was trying to make a beautiful dream, and it turns out that classic says, "The sky's up -- there's nothing." Arsenius Petrovich, not to mention Dostoyevsky's word, one of the heroes of "Idiot" who said, "Leave your tone." Finally, at the last minute, take the human tone to talk! You weren't talking about those conversations, you were trying to convince me that the only way you're suggesting is that you're the truth in the last instance. I've read this Opus. I'll give you the responsibility. I am convinced that members of the government did not read it, except for those scribes in every ministry who wrote a traditional document. What can be found in this document? What is this new policy? For whom is this new policy and why, if there is no one there? There's no man there. Why, then, does this state exist? If it does not think about people, then the state is not needed, someone has to surrender, it will provide better conditions for people’s lives. I'm reading a new policy. What's your news? How much conscience is needed, how much blasphemy to show the novelty, what is it? What Do People Die? And people are dying, poverty is total, and we've already talked about it, total poverty. An epidemic of disease. And we call it "new social policy." What is the policy: how many schools have been closed, how many have finally received district hospitals and FAPs, and how many have we lost during the so - called Reformation? Anybody count how many people we lose? And we're usually "dumb" people. They don't have drugs, they don't talk about it, they don't buy anything. The minister continues to reform the system successfully. Or another moment. What are the delays on their salary when they are eliminated? What kind of unemployment do we have? How many jobs have been created? What has been discovered in recent years? You know, in some areas, if they open up, if you'll excuse me, some small building like this, they come five times to open it. First, the district authorities, then the district authorities, and then they're going to open up from Kiev. They cut the tapes five times. Questions. For government officials, it is proposed that a fund be set up to give them a salary. Tell me, please, who will make sure to create a fund for the poor to help them, these people. For whom will these government officials be needed? Next question. There's a lot of talk here about decentralization that's usually talked about by those, and about local self-governments that don't come out of offices and don't know how it works. I'll tell you. United communities, today they are desperate, they feel that they are being deceived because they do not know where their community members are children, how to adjust them to their clinicians. They were told: “You have, therefore, your health department, your education department, and your work. There are no roads between them, between these settlements. In order to obtain a permit for drugs, you need to obtain a license, equip rooms, and so forth, and at this time people do not receive the necessary drugs. Well, there's no decentralization. Or they would generalize one example and see what needs to be done to ensure that people are interested in increasing communities. To my profound conviction, my esteemed colleagues, the government, by doing this difficult job, I think that the following governments will thank him, because there will be no need to make such unpopular and complex decisions, and the government has reached its level of incompetence. And I think the government has to admit it and the country has to admit it. And we have to say that we're more expensive today, this government, I'm talking to defenders, or more people and more expensive countries. But, dear colleagues, I am personally concerned and evidently by many who claim to be ministers. All lists are entered. And this reminds me of a story in one of the colleges when the dean's post of faculty was dismissed, the jester posted an ad: "In connection with the dean's vacant post, each faculty has to post its own member and with the promoted members appear to the dean." So I'm looking at how with the pushed members from different factions they carry between Banka and Gruszewski. But there are some other worlds where there's no place to put the stamp. So if they're going to be government officials on the quota of certain factions, this government better be. He's actually the Titans of thought, the giants of those people. These political bastards can't be offered positions because they're taking out the folds! Well, there can't be any more. And one more moment, dear colleagues, for the rest. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. I read the President of Ukraine's statement, as you all read. Let's ask the question: there remains this government as it will work with the President of this government. What Will Happen to the Country? So you understand each other, don't put this Supreme Council that they're trying to stretch out into every corner to make a decision, a legal decision that the country is looking for that will push the new state. And there's no need to be afraid that the Supreme Council will be disbanded. I say, the ones who talk the most are most afraid, because in no way will this Supreme Council, government and other positions be seen at all. Because people hate everyone. And to the end. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. We need to make a decision as a result of our consideration. That's our offer. To go consistently, to consider the decisions that are, to evaluate the actions of the government. We, in particular, introduced a draft decree on December 17 that suggests that the government's work be unsatisfactory. And when that decision is made, then we'll see what the potential is and move on. Because otherwise it's a conflict and it's a paralysis of all the executive and legislative branches of power, there's not going to be a result. And I would very much like to see the Rules adhered to in this regard. I remind you, for those who have a historical memory. In 2006, the government resigned Yehanurov, failed to comply with the Rules, and then came into conflict: the government continued its work, and the Supreme Council lived before the 2006 elections. We need to make an irreprehensible clean decision, and I think the first decision should be the government. Because I'm sure he can't continue to function under these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, you see in your material the same sequence: consideration of the government report first, then. There's been a decision, Yuri Lucenko was talking about her. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister! You know, this is the session room that survived, I think, the most tragic events of 2011-2013. I remember the glamour in the eyes and in the officials sitting in this room, and in Arsenija Petrovich herself, when it was literally necessary to fight the Yanukovic regime every day. Even worse, I remember in 2014 when Janukovic fled, calling Putin for aggression against this country. And that's why I'm going to the Opposition Block that was doing all of this together, not telling stories today, not teaching people to live. But at the same time, I understand very well that the country has not gone through the most difficult stage of its trial. Yes, the government and parliament have been tested. And we didn't pass that test with copper pipes. We passed the tests with fire, with water, but we stopped where we could not stop. What does the government define as key parameters for reforming the country? Look at the reports of any government in the European country, see the annual report of the President of the United States of America that the figures are there. The first number is how many jobs are created. Show me in four hundred pages where at least one page is devoted to the most important question that millions of our citizens are concerned about. The second question that concerns citizens most is the fight against crime. You know, you can demand anything from the law enforcement agencies, but if a crime nursery doesn't stop in the center of the country, you're not gonna do anything to fight it. And that's why there's a second point: preventing corruption. Let's take a look at dozens of our legislative initiatives that have been taken by Parliament in exchange for the government's initiatives, where at every turn we've shown a series of "hotels" that have by no means created any climate to combat corruption. The third thing that any government in the report is paying attention to is what happens to the real income of the citizens. You call your policy energy efficient, and you never thought that at the price of a gas that was five years ago and that increased by as much as five dollars, count, compared to the dollar in five years, the population's income has dropped by 2.5 times? And the wealthiest part of the population has won from these changes. Because they used to pay $450 for the gas, and now it's $250. Is that what you call energy efficiency? Is that what you call a fair price? When the government sees a key policy — the policy of the number of citizens receiving subsidies — these are beggars who are born and produced every day in the country, you are destroying the middle class. Because tell me, what's the incentive for a person to save energy, if he doesn't get a penny, everything goes into transit at the expense of an archetype, at the expense of the lies they get? Why save if you can burn the same gas, the same electricity, knowing you'll pay 10 percent of your consumption? As long as wasteful policies continue, nothing will change in our country. The fourth indicator that the government is always reporting is, no doubt, the country's security. Please tell me, how can we follow NATO standards without representation in NATO? What standards do we set? I think today the country stands before the most important shifts. Yes, I agree with those who feel that by sending the government and the Prime Minister away, we are in danger. But I also think our faction is even more of a threat if today's decision is not made. What's going to happen in this split room? What kind of voices will the government gather? Who's got it? Again with Rebirth Group, who doesn't want to vote in favour of resigning the government? Why, you don't know? Tell you what, Mrs. Jarezko, why won't they vote? Because you're not in charge of tax or customs, you're in charge of external administrations, but not of the United States, which are accused of something here, but of our administrations who were sitting in this hall at Yanukovich, who are sitting on what votes you're counting on when you have to accept and approve the budget. This is the scariest thing that's ever been created in this session room. The next, and the key, is the moment: what happens next? Replace the Jaciny for anyone else? You know, the great reformer of China's Dan Xiaopin said, "I don't care what color the cat is, the main thing is to catch a mouse." We are now in a situation where fat, fat rats are sitting everywhere, and nothing is done to stop them. There's another point that's fundamental. To whom does Ukraine live well? We'll see that after today's vote. We'll see how the largest monopolistic clans of oligarchs are now pulling strings because they're all set up: VAT is coming back for them, there's no problem, they're still running state monopolies, regardless of the decision of Parliament and the government. They're all set up in this country. Another indicator. It's freedom of enterprise. Go to any tax department right now. Do you know where the biggest queues are? Don't register the company, shut down the company. Yes, in 24 hours you can register an enterprise. And you know how long it takes to close the business in those conditions so that tax policy does not destroy these entrepreneurs. We're yelling at the agrarian sector. Great. Just tell me why, in this case, the screams of the souls of farmers who have already lobbyed eight bills that have passed by national MPs and no bill from the government, everyone understands that they have no export potential. This will be done, as always, by intermediaries who will return the VAT and set them all up. That's why the principle of forming a new government is the most important. If this is going to be a further principle: we collect votes from anyone under any decision. I think the next government will be doomed to the same report and the same fate. A key principle that should now be laid. If we really want the situation to end in the country when each Prime Minister takes care of the rating of his party at the head of the government at such a critical moment, there must be a person who is the manager of the state. You'll see how it came out of its crisis in Italy, compared to Greece and other countries. The year was ruled by the technocrat government. And after that, when the most important decisions were made, the political system continued to function in what it is. Ukraine is now facing exactly the same choice. I think that's the most important principle of government formation. When it is said and according to what principles we will live by, open a coalition agreement. This is the principle of further coexistence between Parliament and government. This is the only way to keep going. And, I think, the decision today should be taken by one. First. Recognize the government's work in 2015 as unsatisfactory and ask questions about the prime minister's responsibility and the resignation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u93	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, we have heard a detailed and frank report from the coalition government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, from which every honest thinker can conclude. It's quite obvious that the current Cabinet of Ministers has kept the socio-economic situation in a situation of post-revolutionary chaos and Russian aggression, organized the first line of defence in Donbasa, provided energy non-dependence, and then launched the necessary long-awaited, unprecedented, profound reforms. When it became clear that the aggressor was sabotaging the international peace process, in mid-2015 Kabmin began a restrained but systematic economic struggle against Moscow, the despair of the Kremlin from Ukrainian sanctions was so obvious that it was only blind to notice. In the presentation, we also heard about the flaws. The Prime Minister proposed a programme of action for the government in the new reform phase. We are with you, dear fellows, on the right path. And this should be the basis of an addition to the Coalition Agreement with a defined Deadline support for government reform. We also listened carefully to questions and comments from the deputies about the work of Kabmin. At the depth of the variety and significance of the topics raised, I note that the demagogues and the populists unwittingly united to accuse the government of whether we have a war or whether it is that wages do not increase during the war, or whether Ukraine has not yet surrendered to Putin. It irritates the manipulative conversations of colleagues such as: We don't like the jaciny, but Jacinyuk and the government have a low rating. Gentlemen, a low government trust rating is a well-formed anti-government hysteria of populists. Once again, this is not the private office of the Ministers of Yatzenuk. It's a coalition government made up of all the factions of the European Ukraine coalition. I want to upset you, but it's just as low a level of trust for both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. At the same time, the Grand Seven ambassadors called for days to support the government and unite for the reforms that the government is implementing. Today we have to say yes and support the European Ukraine coalition and the coalition government formed by all factions of the coalition. And all factions have the same responsibility as a coalition government. Nevertheless, I believe that this report is also an assessment of the support of the coalition of its coalition government. It's about fighting corruption. I want to remind you that this is also the function of the Henprocurator and the President of Ukraine. Stop translating from one head to another. Isn't that why the whole world demanded Henprocuror's resignation? It's the tip of cynicism to blame only the government for not having enough to fight corruption. This is also the function of the NAB, and the Attorney General's Office, and the Ukrainian Security Service. The government transferred numerous results of official investigations to anticorruption authorities but now there. Look for problems there too, turn to the President, that's also their responsibility. We know for sure that the government is expected to resign in the Kremlin. This is a straight path to a deep political crisis that the aggressor will definitely take advantage of. Ukraine will face the threat of halting IMF funding. The intense coalition process will gradually turn into temporary parliamentary and then into presidential elections. The consequences will be disastrous for the country. I urge you not to push the country into the abyss. This is evidence of the fact that our colleague from the opposition today was talking about some handcuffs that weren't on President Yanukovic, but there is a fact that they didn't report to the "bulostone" for days. Surely they were looking for votes to take down the government. So, colleagues, you know, you're talking about the resignation of the most state-owned and anti-Russian government in all of Ukraine's history. By the way, today we see a decree on the mistrust of the government, votes gathered. Please, no one holds a chair, collect 226 votes, put to the vote, and take full responsibility for what is being done in the country. History will judge us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u95	Dear fellow national MPs, the factions are over. Now there will be three speeches by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Three minutes. Please. Three minutes. Please sign up, Your Honor. Three-by-three. Borislav Bereza, non-fractional, please. Then Mustafa Najem, then the People's Deputy Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u96	Arseny Borisovich. Oh, I'm sorry, you're always together like this, and Arsenius Petrovich, and Arsenius Borisovich, all together, I've put you all together. All right, Arsenius Petrovich, and if you're serious, please tell me. You have an amazing Stan project, you've been so proud of them, you've been telling so much interesting about this project, you've buried 400 million in this project. But according to Mr. Awakov's response, he was not put into service. 400 million are buried in the ground, 400 million pensions, 400 million wages, 400 million unemployment benefits, 400 million paid to many children and families. Arseni Petrovic, 400 million, maybe small money for you, is huge for Ukraine. I have a question: where did the money go? Where's Stan? And this is the invisible wall? And most importantly, Arsenija Petrovich, say the most important thing, you see the mood in the hall, you see the mood in the community, so you might not be pulling the cat by the tail and you say the classic words: thank you, I'm leaving. Thank you. You can leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u97	Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, this is the first speech I've ever heard from this rostrum. And I would like, really, to say honestly, what I feel and feel is a lot of people in this room. Well, first of all, I'm going to say honestly what I'm feeling, really, in terms of Arsenius Petrovich and the whole government. A year ago, when we came to Parliament and even before the year we were. Mydan's finished, and we truly believed, and even now, thank you for what you've done. This is truly sincere. Because we, I remember being a journalist when we were standing on the side of power, we saw what was happening in this room, we saw what was happening in the house in Gruszewski, and we can really say that this government is much better than we have seen before. Let's all admit it. This government is better. We know how it used to be, we know how politics used to be at Yanukovich. We know how the President and the Prime Minister sat and talked about corruption, and no one responded. But it did happen that two years after the government came, I think the situation was closed. Very many people who came to power, including in government, felt that this was a long time. Those people who are now standing on the other side of power, they feel that nothing is happening here. Every time we travel abroad, we are told that corruption is raging in the country. We are told that there are no reforms in the country. We're told there's nothing going on here. And as a young man who's just come to Parliament and into politics, I'd like more done. I really feel this spirit in so many people and in the streets, and not just in Kiev, who really want to change a lot of things. I'm sorry. So it happened that you were taking your steps, because you came a year ago, instead of coming to Parliament and talking to us honestly here, you were running to Bank. Instead of being a subsidiary of Parliament, you have become the vassal of the President. You went there and you made a deal there, you made a deal there with Kolomoysky, you made a deal there with Mr. Ahmetov, you made a deal there with the corrupts, and support was required here. This is also the responsibility of our President, who has led to this. Because in fact, if the next government runs again more often to the Bank than here, if our ministers, starting with the minister of law, ending with the minister of social policy, are more likely to be there than here, they will have no support. Sooner or later, we will feel these arrangements coming along, and there is no honest conversation. So by paying you back for all your work, for all your young generation, we really thank you. You really are another government. You really have the opportunity to get other jobs in the future, to go back to politics. But leave your post today. It will be worth it, and we will be grateful. It will be truly worthy of you to go, and your faction, very many people I respect, can join us, and we will vote for the next government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u99	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u100	What's important is what I want to say about this government. You know a lot of people know that I've worked with this government, including Mr. Zubk, with Mr. Avakov, a lot of things have been done in there, it's been progressive. And I'd like these people to stay in government. I would like them to continue the reforms you started. Perhaps not so, perhaps in another way. But it must also be a guarantee that the People's Front will vote for this government. A future new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, last performance. You didn't come from the group, did you? Three minutes from the group, I'll give you three minutes from the group, you just didn't speak, I understand. The factions were all there except for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u102	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to share, honourable officials, with you what I've heard in Ukrainian factories from groups, from trade unions, from production management. They say that the government's activity is like a chronicle of purposeful destruction of the Ukrainian industry. You see, the so-called "tax anti-reform" of the government, 3630, that's where you take the specials into the agrarians, limit the simplifieds to small and medium-sized businesses, and try to enter a tax on industrial real estate. Thank God, more than half of it was bounced off. Next, they tried to raise tariffs this year for 30 percent of freight rail transport. Overruled, failed, now you're trying to raise 15 percent. And how it hits jobs, how it hits production, export, transportation -- you don't count it, because you're thinking about a government monopoly, how to attach funds there to make it easier to distribute. Next, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is trying to reduce the export duty on unprocessed skin from 50 percent to 5. What does that mean? This means a blow to the domestic light industry. Who's pulling by that minister's hand today? It's anti-government politics. Next, metal scrape. They tried to cancel the quota for the removal of metal from Ukraine, so that it would go abroad for no price, and there were no restrictions at all. Today, together with our fellow thinkers, we are choosing to increase the export duty on scrap metal for three years to protect Ukrainian metallurgy in order to prevent jobs from being stolen in a mining and metallurgical complex that today forms a left-hand section of Ukrainian GDP and exports. And then, in Parliament, you and I, honourable national deputies, have banned the export of roundwood for 10 years -- this is a chance to re-establish Ukrainian woodworking, Ukrainian furniture industry, and create paper production. What does the government do? Is it possible that the government is trying to put this into practice as effectively as possible? No, the government is trying to reverse, abolish this law, and is essentially not taking a harsh pro-Ukrainian position in international negotiations. We're taking the creation of an export credit agency, we're writing it down in a coalition agreement -- recorded. What did the government do in this direction? And, excuse me, the head of the National Bank of Honduras has openly opposed the establishment of an expert credit agency. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you what you're doing is not reformers, it's not technocrats, it's what copycats do, it's what compadres do, it's not for the benefit of the Ukrainian industry, it's not for the benefit of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, three speeches by the members of the Supreme Council have been completed. I invite you to take the floor, the closing statement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we're going to consider the decree, three decrees, actually. I think we're going to take one as a basis, and then we're going to take three different choices. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u104	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! I appreciate any political criticism and political rhetoric that has been heard in this room. But I would like to address you with the following. Hatred and anger are not the feelings that should unite the conscious political class. Now it's not just about resigning. This is about differences in values, goals, and politics. I say from this rostrum that what this government has done, myself and every member of this cabinet, we are confident that this is the only right way. It's our policy, it's our values, it's our beliefs! We received a looted country with Russian army and Russian boots in Ukrainian territory. Without an army, without money, without a system of government. We've kept this country, and I'm asking you to respect it! Ladies and gentlemen, we leave the country with full execution, armed with Ukrainian troops, written debts, paid wages and pensions. I ask Parliament today to decide on the country's future destiny, and to put a resolution of the government's mistrust in the vote. With honor and dignity, we will hand over the government to the new Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u105	Dear National Deputies! Three decrees have been made for your consideration. You know, before people go into the hall and get ready to vote, I want to say a few simple things. I think everybody's in a tough mood today. In fact, today is some difficult, unforgivable decision in principle. I listened to the committee heads, I listened to the national deputies. A lot of what you said, I could do it again. I think there's something that the government could say today as positive and as positive as possible. This is obvious if we do not want to close our own eyes. But there are many shortcomings that have been allowed by ministers in one area or another. And you talked about it today. But there is an obvious question that we cannot avoid with you. It's the basic trust that people have in what we do with you. The lack of this trust because of the ineffective, perhaps the solution is the cause of this crisis of trust that all Ukrainian authorities have. That's too bad. But I would love for all of us not to be together in an unexplained relationship, but to be able to unite in order to finally break the country out of that divide, which is just a beautiful, beautiful country. This cannot be done separately by Parliament. This cannot be done separately by the government. This cannot be done separately by the President. That's what we have to realize for ourselves and do. So has the Lord God and the people that we are in our positions today. And I don't understand it I think it's the highest crime that can be done in terms of people. But whatever the vote is today, it is in your hands that the fate of this government and the fate of tomorrow. Whatever happens, we need to draw conclusions, we need to learn that ignoring people's thoughts, not turning our attention to them for months, or perhaps years, is simply incompatible with life. Therefore, I believe that we have the wisdom to restore proper trust through our actions. And one more thing, I suppose, that I would like to say in terms of ministers. Dear colleagues, national deputies, they represent different territories, different electorates, different political views, but they are here to make decisions. And it must be admitted that no responsible decision has failed this Parliament, perhaps for the first time. When it comes to corruption and combating it, when it comes to suppressing or stamping out the interests of the oligarchs when it comes to police reform or decentralization, many other reforms and changes that had to be adopted, we did and will do, I am deeply convinced of that. But it's very important that you believe what you're doing. But that depends on the views of each minister. And I want to make it absolutely, absolutely clear today, I guarantee you that in the near future we will be restoring real parliamentary control over the actions of the government and all other authorities. But I will need your help and your support. We won't do it without you. And now, dear fellows, I propose that we consider with you the draft of Decree 4050d. 4050 based. It's based on that. Well, we have, look, we have three determinations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, come on, buddy. I'm not going to be by your name right now, I'm looking at you. Can we have a little less character? I'm fine with character too, believe me. But we have to respect each other at least. Thank you for your understanding. Colleagues, we have 4050 decrees to take a report. We have Decree 4063 of the People's Deputy of the Pigeon, which the Committee has not considered, but it can make itself an alternative, it is to admit to unsatisfactory work. And the people's deputy Novak is pleased. So we actually have three choices. That's why I'm consulting you today. I think you can take one as a base, then as a basis, and as a whole, as a committee, if you don't. And in order of coming, these 2-3 proposals. Is that logical? Is that logical? [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean, no? Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not a resolution of mistrust, and now we have to appreciate the government's work. After we assess, we move on to the resolution. All of it. I guess so. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't control it, okay? Please. Please, Vladimir Litwin, one minute. Well, listen, come on. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u106	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a decision as a result of its consideration. She can take the government’s report, she can recognize the job as positive, she can find the job unsatisfactory. The next point: If the Supreme Council recognizes work as unsatisfactory, it is a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to pay attention, there's a proper procedure. But, Mr. Golovo, on December 17, 2015, a whole group of national deputies registered draft decree 3658, which states that assessing the government's work for 2015 is unsatisfactory. At the same time, I don't think there's any point here, but in order of order of order, we have to vote on the government's first decision to work poorly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u107	We're looking at 4050 right now, so please, I'm putting it on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. 4050, listen, but don't make any noise. You want three separate orders? Three different separate ones? Three different separate ones? Okay, well, it's the same thing. So, 4050. 4050 is a decree to take the government's report to the public. This is a committee decision. The committee. Let's get to the bottom of this, 4050. I put it on the ground as a whole. Please, I will put three proposals: on the whole, the basis of knowledge, on the whole, is unsatisfactory and on the basis of overall satisfaction, if each of these decisions does not come together. Please. The first decree, 4050, prepared by the committee, states: Take a report from the government to the public. We vote on the basis as a whole. [[19:49:27]] Z-77 [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, colleagues, but calm down. Who will be given another word? Do you want to give your word to anyone again? Thank you, Your Honor. The second in line was the proposal to approve the decree (National Dove MP) 4063, where to recognize the discontent of government work. On the basis and in general on the recognition of government work is unsatisfactory. Understand? We're voting on the basis of a total of 4063. [[19:50:20]] For 247 Parliament acknowledged that it had decided to accept the government's unsatisfactory work in 2015. Colleagues, in this regard, we have 150 national deputies. — Registration No. 4080. Attention! It's about a resolution of mistrust. The project is submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Lucenko and 150 by national deputies, 153 by national deputies. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4080) on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (adopted by a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). Next. Attention! You listen, and then you'll ask 50 times. Attention! After considering the question of conformity. on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at the invitation of 159 deputies. Ukraine's national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 87 of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to adopt a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to determine that this decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. The respective signatures are 159 national MPs. We have this decree as a normal procedure to consider. So I'm going to make an offer to consider this order in a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. It's a simple decision. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[19:52:43]] For 185 Decision taken. Please report to Yuri Lucenko. 4080. Well, definitely, two words and so on: two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u108	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished members of the government, we are now coming to a vote on the Resolution on the Distrust of the Government. On behalf of the 158 people's deputies of the various factions who signed up for this decision, I want to assure you once again, it's not about the personal insult or contempt of any of those who actually worked for Ukraine all the time, it's about the crisis of trust and the crisis of results that we now have in Ukraine. How can a person with great revolutionary experience be assured that when a society with 70 percent of its composition does not trust any one official, it will inevitably go, it will inevitably change its position. In this case, we know that the Ukrainian government doesn't trust more than 70 percent. And that means that people didn't work. I really admit that this government has done a great deal, for which I am truly grateful. But we can't pretend that Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk, that this government all in this composition is constantly working brilliantly, it can't be. We have spoken, and once again we insist, that this government must be profoundly reshaped to produce a result. The President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian society are calling for the resignation of this composition of Kabmin in order to obtain a more effective, more efficient and accountable government before Parliament. I invite you now, not to debate, not to find compromises, but to the outcome. It's a parliamentary area of responsibility to resign the government and form a new responsible government. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u109	Please, colleagues, two for, two for against, sign up. And let's go to the vote. Two for, two for, one for, one for. Please, colleagues, two for, two against. The sound, the people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u110	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u111	Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, you know, we've talked so much today about a crisis of trust! She obviously is. But after today's discussion here, in the hall, it's going to be a lot more. And that's unfortunate. Because we're a coalition, we really shared a responsibility. And when the heads of committees come out of the same political power today and curse the ministers appointed by the same political force, that means that we failed, we failed with you to set up a normal job and justify the trust that millions of people have placed on us. It's got to be admitted. Because we're with you. These are democratic traditions that are beautiful, but we here today have beaten up a friend like an un-officer's widow, no more and no less, and people's hopes will not come true. And for that, it's embarrassing. What do we do now? Clearly, decisions must be made now. If the Ukrainian Parliament is willing to express its mistrust, it is likely necessary to vote, but it must be understood that those who vote so take full responsibility for the economic situation in the country. Because today the situation is such that it is unlikely that this will lead to a drop in the course. to raise the rate of the bracelets, to invest, to stop military action and other things. This responsibility must be recognized today by every national MP. We don't have to put the situation up today. Today, a period of trust or mistrust is needed for the Ukrainian government. If there are votes for mistrust, the People's Front asks to put and immediately vote on this issue, not to hang. But be ready for anyone who pushes the button to take responsibility for the country. Because this is where we do the show. In fact, politics is not always a show. The show is enough for people today, they're short of bread. Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u113	Oleg Kuprienko. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u114	I told you everything. The Radical Party faction votes in favour of resigning the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u115	National Deputy Zholobecki. Peter Dustock's Block, who's speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u116	Yeah. Please pass on the word to Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u117	Moses, Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u118	Honourable Ukrainian Parliament, Honourable Ukrainian Government! Until last we had the hope that you, Mr. Prime Minister, would not be a coward, but in fact, unfortunately, we have witnessed that you have a cowardly advantage over understanding the fate of the Ukrainian people. Where is your courage to say, even though you have zero percent trust among the Ukrainian people, even though you have zero percent trust, besides the People's Front in the Ukrainian Parliament, to say to yourself, "I'm resigning?" Where are those words? Where is your courage? The Ukrainian people of cowards will not tolerate the government. Don't you get it? Don’t provoke a situation that may explode in Ukrainian society. Have courage at the very end of your office with honor and dignity to leave this office. Don't hold on to this rostrum. Do not hold on to those chairs that you hug. They are not holy. Look into the eyes of the Ukrainian people and voluntarily declare your resignation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u119	Dear fellow national MPs! Please make your last speech. Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, the government report isn't in the papers we've been handed out. The government report is in the hearts and pockets of Ukrainians. The government's effective work is shown by the high level of feeling of simple reformers. Instead, the word "reform" over the past two years under the leadership of this Prime Minister has become a symbol of people's lost hopes, lost opportunities. Unfortunately, Ukraine is today regulated, a state with a regulated economy, a country of leaders who have won. And let's be honest about what this government has done to change this situation. The government did not minimize the State's involvement in the economy, did not ensure the lack of a control dictatorship, did not create a healthy liberal fiscal system in 2015, did not reduce the percentage of GDP redistribution. Let's take a look at the priorities that the Prime Minister here has been giving us for the 16th year is what this government didn't do in the 15th year. And what prevented this government from reforming the DFS in the 15th year? What prevented this government from clearing the tax pit when we had Kharkiv today become the capital of the tax pits in Ukraine? And what prevented this government from getting the minimizers out of customs, all sorts of mythical thugs of the "orestes" who, under the nose of the minister of finance, are sitting on Kiev's district customs, and millions, hundreds of millions of dollars are not coming into the state budget? And what prevented this government from making a transparent and fair refund on VAT this year, on the 15th without a refund? The answer is simple: Retreat, corruption, and so forth. And all those who don't vote in favour of resigning the government today, all those who leave the hall today are taking responsibility for all the corruption and for its coverage that is now in control of this government. The Self-Help faction in its entirety signed for the resignation of the government, and it's offering everyone to support and assume this responsibility. We're ready to put this government in full storage.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this question or discussion with you, we have concluded our discussion, but I would like to draw your attention to the following. Dear colleagues, the next is attention! - That's it. The factions that didn't participate in the discussion are fine. Please, "The will of the people" is a minute. Vladimir Litwin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u122	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I will point out immediately, there would be no problem if the government, after the first vote, had declared that it was retiring. Now what's the situation? I would like to point out immediately that our group from which I speak is in favour of voting in favour of this decree. But let's predict that now, in my opinion, there will be less than 200 votes, there will be people coming out of the hall, and we will have a conflict: the first decision has been taken, the second decision has not been taken, and the government will then work in the conflict until September 2016. Therefore, the suggestion is that if you put it to a vote, vote in advance, see how many votes there are, and then postpone consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u123	Thank you, dear fellows, for your offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Fellows, you know what, look. Colleagues, this is an extremely responsible vote. And we all understand that this is a matter of government mistrust. And there shouldn't be what you said in your previous speech, there shouldn't be things that would then sue some sort of procedure, a signal, not a signal, and everything else. So, listen up! Everyone's going to vote now. Everyone is now voting on a responsible decision. You don't have to aim here, please. You don't have to aim. I emphasize that everyone knows what he's voting for. We've been looking at the government report since 16 hours. Thank God, it's already the 20th, it's four hours, and we don't have to measure how many votes we give. The government's share is in your hands. Vote, identify. And so, colleagues, 4080: draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The essence of the decision is to adopt a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It votes once as a basis and as a whole. Ready to vote? Are you ready to vote? Can I put it to a vote? On the basis of a total of 4080. Identify yourself. [[20:05:44]] For a hundred and [[B in m in s a l in]] 194 votes. Please, by factions: 97, National Front - 0, Opposition Block - 8, Self-help - 25, Radical Party - 15, Fatherland - 15, Rebirth - 0, will of the people - 6.28 - non-factional national MPs. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, please, for a minute, Vadim Denisenko, according to the declarations, so that they can be filled in for 2015. Please, Vadim Denisenko. Turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, Bill 3755 was discussed in the morning plenary. A number of insinuations have emerged as a result of the fact that the start of the electronic declaration is being transmitted to 2017. I would like to point out that the declaration should start in 2016. In fact, I ask the Main Committee to take into account the finalization of the text of this bill for signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-16-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, the agenda is exhausted, and I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m.
