ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall and take up jobs so that we can get started. During the break, the Conciliation Council passed, and we identified a number of extremely important drafts that are non-conflict, but which are very important today, particularly the Decommunization Act, on the renaming of several hundred cities and towns from the names of killers to Ukrainian names, and this is a very important issue that awaits the communities of many cities and towns. I very much ask that the factions tell the deputies that we are starting our work and that the secretariat of the Supreme Council inform the deputies that it is time to go into the hall and prepare for hard, exhausting work. Please. My colleagues, once again, I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues! We didn't work much for a day and a half. Please prepare for active productive work. Let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u2	Dear fellow countrymen, good evening! Please join us all in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall, we will continue our work and continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please come in, take your seats. Prepare to register. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. We stopped with you on the draft Law (Registration No. 3196) on Interpol, what Yuri Lucenko said. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of national deputies in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please register. [[16:20:03]] 355 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, the following bill of 3196 is a draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (as regards the irreversibility of punishing persons who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). There is a suggestion that the bill should be considered in a simplified procedure. Colleagues, please support this proposal. Offer from the authors. Please prepare for the vote. So we have our first vote on inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our consideration of bill No. 3196. He'll report. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider it in a reduced procedure of 3196. This is an offer by the author, Anton Heraszczenko. Please identify yourself. This is a procedural decision, we need 150 votes. Vote. As for the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[16:22:24]] For-138 Dear fellow members of the National MPs, National MP Anton Gerashchenko, the author of the bill, proposed that the draft law be examined in a simplified manner. I'd like to make up my mind. Short-term review, colleagues. [[16:22:51]] For 139 None. Well, it's not. Okay. Please complete procedure, Anton Gerashchenko, report. The focal point is the head of the profiling committee, Andrew Kožemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u5	Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine! Bill 3196 aims to ensure that the people of Ukraine see that their elected authority wishes to bring to justice those who commit terrible crimes against the people of Ukraine and who hide in the territory of other countries without wanting to answer to the law. To date, the Code of Criminal Procedure introduces the concept of inadvertent condemnation for those who are wanted internationally. However, those with significant financial resources are hiring expensive lawyers, bringing lawsuits before the Court of Justice of the City of Lyons in France against Interpol and withdrawing from the international search. There have been several such precedents. And the first precedent was the precedent of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, former President of Ukraine. In order to enable the people of Ukraine to see the actual prosecution of those who had committed crimes against the people of Ukraine, a bill containing three articles had been drafted. This article deals with theft of a particularly large size (190th, part one); this article relates to massacres in Maidan (115th, part two); this article relates to the establishment of an organized criminal group that robbed Ukraine between 2010 and 2014. If this law is supported by the People's Deputies and the President's signature, we will be given the opportunity to bring to justice, in absentia, Yanuković and others who hide in the territory of other countries and do not intend to return here. If this law is passed, we will be able to conduct an open court broadcast throughout the world's media and show evidence of the crimes of the criminal regime of Yanukovic. Without the adoption of this law, in view of the blocking by expensive lawyers of the international search for Yanuković and his “kamarilili” it will not be possible. And all of us, the distinguished people's deputies and the President of Ukraine, will be criticized and told that you have not done everything possible to bring them to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this issue, as it is an important public issue on the question of the restoration of justice and order in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u6	Please, 10 minutes to ask. Please write down the questions, the answers. Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk "Block of Petra Prashenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u7	Chumuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u8	Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u9	Thank you. I would like to remind all our colleagues that no law has yet returned money and no law has condemned anyone. I would like to say that the laws are enforced by people, and it is the people who enforce the laws that can either return the money, condemn people, and so forth. But my question to Mr. Anton is purely political. Please tell me, Mr. Anton, who do you think is guilty today of not being able to convict any high-ranking man who has fled the country and who is currently in international search?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u10	Viktor Vasiljevic, I am just like you, not satisfied with the quality of the Ukrainian law enforcement and judicial system. However, to date, if a person defends himself in Interpol and refuses to declare himself internationally wanted, we cannot bring him to justice under the existing Code of Criminal Procedure through the institution of opposing condemnation, which you, including as I recall, have supported. Therefore, as a way out, we propose that we should be able to provide a legislative opportunity to involve persons under the three articles of the Criminal Code on the basis of their announcement in the Ukrainian search. If so, those who are in the territory of the Russian Federation may either appear here and be brought before a court or present their lawyers to an open trial. I think Mr. Yanukovic will have enough lawyers to bring to the Ukrainian courts, but we, on the other hand, will show the people of Ukraine all the crimes that have been committed and show evidence of these crimes. To date, we cannot begin these trials without such a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u11	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u12	I have such a question to report, as Victor Chumak went on to say. I fear that the lack of irreparability of punishment has to do with the inactivity of the Supreme Council. Because it seems that there are not enough laws that allow us to fight crime. In this regard, I am afraid that the Attorney General’s Office will finally begin our work. First of all, Vladimir Borisovich, ask yourself, how is it that Krašta works there, did he get a letter there to Shokin, because the people are nervous, or is he going to come in today to vote in favour of our resignation? And second position. I wanted to hear from the Attorney General's Office, would they apologize to the two people's deputies they accused of crimes? We voted in favour of condemning them, and now they're sitting here with us and working normally. I understand there's been a terrible mistake in the Attorney General's office. The result of the mistake is an apology to them and a discovery of criminal cases against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u13	Dear Mr. Tomenko, I would like to inform you that a person is found guilty, not by the prosecution, not by the police or the BSS, but by the court. To date, there are no indictments against those deputies who have been charged. In general, the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to bring him to justice was violated by the MP of Mosiychuk. As for the quality of the prosecution's work, I won't argue with you here. She doesn't give in to any criticism. And I, like you, Mr. Tomenko, will vote in favour of the resignation of the Attorney General, who has written a statement of his own accord. But I wish to say that this law is necessary in order to have a mechanism for attracting those who are in the territory of the Russian Federation and other countries and who may be there for many decades. And we will not be able to show the people of Ukraine an open trial. There is a non-conviction mechanism in place in world practice, and that is precisely the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u14	Gregory Timish, please, Peter Dust Block. I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u15	Chumaku please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u16	Chumuk? Please. Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u17	Thank you. Mr. Anton, I want to ask you again, I want to hear the answer. You don't think that to this day we're being able to bring all of these people to trial in absentia who are being searched for, the activities of high-paying lawyers who are giving, blocking these people in Interpol's search. That's what I learned from your answer. Please tell me, will it be possible if these same lawyers block the same activity in Ukraine? Will this be condemned, or will we not interfere with the activities of these evidences, the procedural ones that they will deliver? You know what we're doing is we're doing a precedent when we say that Interpol is basically an international organization that the whole country trusts. the whole world, we don't trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u18	I would like to point out that the people of Ukraine want to see justice, preferably in the coming years. For the time being, two years after Maidan, we have not seen this justice, partly because of law enforcement, partly because those who organized crimes against Ukraine are in the territory of the Russian Federation, which refuses to extradite them and even ignores any requests. If a non-conviction institution is established on the basis of a search warrant in Ukraine, then the law enforcement authorities will have the opportunity and the right to refer the case to the court. The court may begin the proceedings and persons who are suspected of exhibiting their lawyers while in the territory of other countries. But then, as a result of the open trial and the people of Ukraine, all parties to criminal conduct will have the opportunity to prove their guilt or innocence. Without the adoption of this law, that is not possible today. I also want to say that Interpol mechanisms are very long. And with high-paying, high-quality lawyers, Yanukovic has managed to block his search in Interpol for a year and three months. This is a legal fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u19	Please, Sergey Kaplin, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u20	First of all, I want to thank you for finally putting into the Supreme Council Hall those laws, bills that can really be a powerful tool if there's political will to help us get the money back, and the criminals from Russia who are hiding there. But I would like to point out that only the political will and professionality of prosecutors, the honesty and impartiality of judges can guarantee that criminals will be punished. I'll give you a simple example. You remember a year ago when the city’s head of the city of Poltava moved three pensioners, he nearly crippled those pensioners, a deputy of the town council of Shamoth, and he was acquitted the other day. And the procurator of Poltava County, Popov, went out and said he wasn't guilty of anything. I want to warn him that after tomorrow we're gonna put Yatsenuk away, and then this Midan will move to the Attorney General's Office and demand the release of such prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u21	Well, I get it, it wasn't a question of-- it was a speech. I therefore ask the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u22	Please, the People's Deputy Bublik Yury.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Sergio Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u24	Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u25	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Please tell us from your statement we know that Judge Leona is also perhaps a corrupt judge who takes away from the search for high-ranking judges, and the problem is not only with our judges, I understand that they have corrupt judges in Lyon. So maybe it's not a matter for French judges, but for the prosecutor who sends out documents that are considered worthless, and for these documents these decisions are taken? That's the first question. And the second question is professional. 115 articles are homicides. The logic behind the adoption of the Law on Indictment was that the international search alone gave rise to this acquittal. Now, here's an example. Killers, beloved murderers, who will not be sought by our militia, but will be condemned in absentia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u26	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u27	That's when the international search for the killer is looking for our militia. Once there's a simple homicide search, they'll be denounced, and they'll hide in their little ones and kill even more people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Mishchenko, as a former high-level prosecutor, you know all the problems of the prosecution's work. I understand that you and I, together in a single impulse, will support the resignation of the Attorney General. I also want to respond to the following. To date, unless the law I propose is passed, and Janukovic will block his search in Interpol further, and this will happen, even though even if one of your friends becomes the Attorney General, we will never be able to bring him to justice. If we adopt this law that I am talking about, please let it return to Ukraine, we will judge it. Let him give his lawyers. Then the Public Prosecutor's Office will go to trial and there will be an open trial against Yanukovič and others who can hide from justice for decades and the people of Ukraine will say, "The People's Deputies of Mishchenko, the People's Deputies of Gerashchenko, why don't you try Janukovič?".. And we'll say, "He's not betrayed by Putin." There is an option, it is an international practice. Let us allow, on the basis of a search in Ukraine, to initiate distance criminal conduct. Further, if these people want to protect you, please come to Borispol Airport. Or give me your lawyers. But then there'll be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u29	The last question is Roman Romanyuk, Peter Dusty Block. Is it? None. No, I see, a national MP. Okay. Thank you, National Deputy Heratchenka. Please sign up for the factions. Before we move on to the factions (recorded 5 factions), from the committee – Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk, please. A report from the committee, and then, according to the record, from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting considered the bill, concluded that the bill did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, did not conform to the laws of Ukraine, violated the rights of citizens. You can't accept a bill like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u31	The questions are the answers to the committee, Mikola Petrovich. No questions asked, already answered, okay. Please log in from factions. Do we have that record? Yes, yes, please show him. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u32	Hello, distinguished colleagues. Draft Law 3196 is the second non-constitutional law, which is now trying to continue with the violation of the Rules by a majority who wants to vote and establish its dictatorship because it is not a rule of law at all. Bill 3196 went further than one of the laws for which the so-called “dictator laws” accused us of voting. The Act, which was voted on 16 January, stated that it was possible to conduct pre-trial special investigations in the event of an international search. Here, colleagues are saying that international search is not enough because Interpol has Kremlin agents, and it is only on the basis of the announcement of an internal search by the general public that it is necessary to criminalize and prosecute him by our impartial, fair trial in the world. I wish to say that this is an element of political persecution, and it will be for all the people's deputies in the future. That is why I would like to call on the MPs not to vote in favour of this bill. Nevertheless, in order for us to vote, we should not be motivated by political necessity, as in the vote of the previous bill, but should respect the rules of the Rules and comply with the provisions of the Constitution. Unfortunately, those postulates, the constitutional principles that some colleagues are now referring to in the presentation of the bill, are in grave violation of the bill. I call on him not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u33	Please "self-help", Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u34	Self-help supports the idea of this law. Indeed, in Ukraine there is a great deal of difficulty in investigating, attracting responsibility, and even announcing international criminals in international search. I think it's very important to point out that Interpol's Ukrainian office is still headed by a man who was supposed to be illustrated, who served Yanukovich, and who is kept by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk. And this is one reason why Ukraine's international search efforts are ineffective. However, the main ideas of the self-help bill are ready to support the first reading and work to make the law more perfect for the second. I'd like to ask the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Groysman once again when we agree to expel Victor Shokin? Can you understand why this does not apply to the Supreme Council vote when all the documents are ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u35	I'd like to ask the head of the committee: do you need the Henprocuror's resignation or do you need a failed vote on the Henprocuror?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u36	There are enough national deputies in this room right now. Peter Poshenko's Block, People's Front, Fatherland, Self-Help, Radical Party. I'm sure there'll be plenty of parliamentarians in the room who won't cover corruption, as the Attorney General does.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u37	Thank you for your answer. I've made a point. I look forward to an answer now that the Attorney General arrives at the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the vote. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block. Please, Gennady Tchakouk, Peter Dustenka's Block, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u38	Please pass the microphone to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u39	Indeed, we support an appropriate bill. But I would like to contact representatives. A representative of the opposition bloc for the prosecution of the opposition. Of course, they'll chase when there is, for what. And you will come to power, and you will also be persecuted. It was only the Ukrainian people who wanted these persecutions to end and to start persecuting the task of raising wages, pensions, scholarships, conditions of work, creating new jobs, and so forth. The very Ukrainian people would like the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament to pursue these very goals. But I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that, of course, we are in favour of enacting such laws, if such laws help the force bloc and as a result of the court to bring to justice the mobster, the mob leader Janukovic. However, we have a lot of doubts that the team that was in power in the first months after Maidan, who released them abroad, who gave them a green road to Moscow, Russia, where they finance individual political forces and destabilize the political situation in the country here, will do anything to punish them in order to bring them here in the cage. And so that they will receive appropriate punishment and responsibility. Today, people at markets and stops are talking about what would have been better if Azarov and his team had returned. Because they were stolen, but there was no social stability. That is what the shameful policy of today’s government has led to! And I think, without economic change, without social change, a new course in economic policy, without modernization, the cleansing of the Cabinet of Ministers and elections in Parliament, we will, by adopting dozens of such laws, not every day will bring about a system of failure to ensure stability and not put the country on the tracks of true justice, of real reform. This is what Ukrainian citizens require. Because Ukrainians can no longer live in such conditions, and they cannot live on the lowest wage and pension in the world, they cannot live under conditions when they are not heard by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. There's no country, there's never been a whole civilization like that, so there's never been a policy with a rating of 1 percent left in office. It's totally unacceptable, it's totally immoral, it's anti-nationally absolutely. And I want you to hear all the miners, the celebrants, the workers, the scientists, so that you can hear these miserable doctors, so that these miserable teachers, and in the end, give the country a chance to survive. And this chance will begin after Jacinyuk's resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u40	Thank you. People's Front, Victoria Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, I'm just going to tell you a little bit about the history of this bill, because it has my signature and also my colleagues' signatures: Mustafa Nyem, Svetlana Zlatchuk, Sergey Lechchenka, and why we did it. Indeed, we had a conversation with the Attorney General's Office until the second anniversary of the beginning of Maidan in November of last year, when we realized that Ukrainian society was going to ask us: and what was done for those people who were responsible for the provocation of Midan, who were finally responsible for the shooting of the Celestial 100, to rob the country in order to open its foreign policy course, to be punished in Ukraine? What have we done? The Attorney General said that she made a few petitions to Interpol, but unfortunately, either because of some lobbyist request from Russia or for some other reason, Yanukovic and his immediate surroundings were never announced in an international search. Appropriately, the procedure of acquittal is in different countries of Europe, and in different countries of Europe it is carried out in different ways. Yes, colleagues from the "Peter Prashenko Block" are absolutely right about the institutional very low capacity of our law enforcement system and, apparently, the low institutional capacity of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, which may not have gathered all the necessary evidence. But it seems to me that in the matter of punishing the guilty for shooting the same Celestial Hundreds, by the way, we never gave that question even when there were 2 years in February of those shots. Today this is not only about the institutional capacity of the Attorney General of Ukraine. This is a question of the institutional capacity of all of Ukraine and probably of each of us. If there is no such capacity in the prosecutor's office, let's show that this ability, the institutional capacity, is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill has been much further worked out. He was worked on by Mr. Kožemiakin’s committee, in particular. And from there all the questionable articles were deleted, there were only three articles left, which could only be done in the case of a person accused of murder, a criminal group organization, or a large theft. on a very large scale, and only if the country where this person is hiding has not granted extradition. So in fact, you don't have to be afraid of that because in this case all the fuses were made to make sure that it was the fugitive of former President Yanukovic and his immediate environment. I very much ask the Ukrainian Parliament to bear in mind that in this case it is a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u42	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u43	Thank you. The stage was created as a call for justice. It's up to you and me to implement justice for those murdered heroes who died in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u44	Thank you. Please, Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich, Radical Party. He's handing it over to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u45	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. My colleagues, Igor Lucenk, Vladimir Parasuk, Igor Mosiyczuk, were on a break at a place that resembles surrealism. Part of the factory house, just the part where people were killed, where they broke into pieces with the first battle grenade of the Hero of the Heavenly 100th of Dmitry Maximov, where they shot those of us who were then on Midan, tried to open the cafe once, and we locked up with other honourable colleagues. Now they're trying karaoke again, songs, slaps -- it's all glowing, the wheat-style, the booze whatever, the karaoke scene. I'd like to warn the owners that at the scene of the death of the heroes, they will never work on a song called Pshonka and Yanukovich. But in fact, it's no wonder when tiny cynical barriers open up dances on graves. At a time when still, even in absentia, Janukovic, not convicted of all the crimes committed during Middan: murder, kidnapping, disability, persecution of public activists, persecution of journalists, intimidation, for all that happened with the country. Because if it wasn't for the regional mafia. Clearly, there are a lot of claims to the power that is now, but chaos in the country has begun to take place. And when there's an honourable MP here, or not very much, from "The Environment," and he's saying, "What's wrong with the law, that's wrong." You know, a thief's hat is on fire. Those in Yanukovich’s gang are afraid of this law. And there's nothing undemocratic, so think about who didn't read. Only 3 articles on particularly serious crimes, for which we can judge in absentia, without Interpol's decision. We can judge under this law only if the country disagrees. Tell me, is there one fool in this room who will believe that the Russians will give us Yanukovich? He'll never give it up, because Yanukovich had a hand. And by their command through Surkov, through Medvedchuk, there was the shooting of the Celestial 100, there was the indignation of the Ukrainians among themselves, there was the destruction of the actual economy, it began, in fact, then. And shame and shame to all who will not vote for this law! He gives the opportunity, at least in absentia, to judge tyrant Yanukovic. We don't have that option right now. Ask yourself, ‘ Will it be embarrassing for you in front of your constituents? I've been asked many times by people in the plains, in Lutsk, in Lviv, in Poltava, in Chernig, why don't you judge Yanukovich in absentia? We don't judge that because there's no proper legislative basis, it's finally there. And there are those who criticize it. What you're talking about, you're totally burning up, protecting the criminals that we are, I'm sure we're going to pass this law, and we're not going to judge one Yanukovich for him. And if there are people in this room who are going to run to Russia and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, speaking out of factions is over. Now, according to the Rules, 15 minutes from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please prepare for the recording and please record the speeches by the national deputies, please. Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u47	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues, here some colleagues say that this law can be applied to other criminals than the Yanukovich gang. Yeah, maybe not only can he do it, but he should. Note that serious and especially serious crimes are involved. So who are we protecting? Those killers, who by 115, who were there, the first, the second, the third, killing people, they're hiding now, not going outside the country, and we're saying you can't apply these norms to them? Not only can you do it, you have to do it. All those who now say that they will not vote for this law are those who are potentially willing to commit serious and particularly serious crimes because they measure it against themselves. Therefore, the distinguished people of Ukraine, please look carefully at the lists of those who will not now vote or vote against the adoption of this law. It's the Supreme Council that elects people who are potential criminals. So we call on everyone to vote in favour of this law and finally to allow our underprivileged prosecutor's office, the underprivileged law enforcement agencies, who in two years have not been able to take the position of any bandit, no one who has robbed the people for years, stolen billions from the budget, hid in Moscow, and we sit here and there is nothing we can do about it. Finally, we have to put an end to this and this little change in the law will allow the system to be held accountable, to bring matters to trial. And now you and I are tasked, as national advocates, to take control of it, to control it, so that these smart lawyers can't get to the point where they've been lying there for five years and there's nothing. That is why we vote in favour of this law and allow us to bring responsibility to those who have not only been robbed but also killed our heroes in Maidan with their hands in blood on their elbows. And finally, they need their positions where they're supposed to be sitting, and they have their seats in jail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u48	Igor Lucenko, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u49	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people, first of all, I'd like to say what's actually going on right now. Once again, instead of having and forming a normal law enforcement system, we give alternative tools, showing that our investigators, our courts, are unable to carry out the sacred task of punishing the guilty in crimes against Maidan, against the people of Ukraine. We're now coming up with ways to give them the opportunity to do this, given that they're not professionals, they're not conscientious, they're not honest. The other one. We're now working on the port KPC coordinate system. We are trying to correct those systemic flaws that are there, punctually, by fighting for every new law that seems to correct them. I urge all my colleagues: let's sit down and normally destroy this port system of so-called injustice -- and finally make a normal Code of Criminal Procedure, once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I ask myself: If two years ago the Attorney General's Office, the law enforcement system of our state had filed with Interpol and the Lyon court with normal documents proving the guilt of all those who committed crimes in Maidan, would we now consider this law? Probably not. Because around the world, there is a practice of opposing international search. This practice and this rule now exist in our Ukrainian legislation, in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Therefore, no one today prevents these criminals from condemning, confiscating their property and showing the people that we really have authority, we have a law enforcement system, we have a judicial system. Yeah, maybe instead of covering up one place for the authorities, the prosecutor's office, generally the law enforcement system, we need the Attorney-General's office again, which is allowed, to submit all the evidence to Interpol and get this international search, how does it exist in all the countries of the world? What are we doing? And what we're doing is, if the law says that these three articles are about Yanukovich and his followers, I think there would be 300 votes in this room. And we're just writing about three articles, we're not writing about Yanukovich, we're writing about murderers, we're talking about ordinary killers. Trust me as an ex-prosecutor who was in control of the search for internal affairs of murderers and criminals who committed serious crimes. They will work only then and search for murderers on the inside until they know they're staying at work, and they'll get paid and they'll get jobs at their jobs. Only they will realize that there will be reprisals, so they will not seek out the common killers. What will happen next? If you say what it means, and we're covering up our power and our law enforcement system, just for Yanukovich, his sidekicks, everyone will vote. And if you're covering up for murderers, ordinary murderers, rapists, ordinary maniacs, which in our country are not unique facts, then do as you do. You do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u52	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u53	You investigate one case, even if you put one killer on the stand or make a search, as it is done, then you will tell us what you want to do. Now you haven't done anything in two years, the law enforcement system hasn't done anything, and now you want to say by this law, "Yes, we're giving this authority a chance to do it." But you're opening the Pandora.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u54	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I am a little surprised by the fantastic joy of adopting two laws (previous and present) that justice will prevail in the Ukrainian state. I think the first and second bill is the sentence of power and the sentence of the entire law enforcement system. If no one knew for two years, no one said that one sentence or two sentences should be added, everyone here reported to the session hall and said that we were going to put criminals and they would answer to the law, the money would all be returned, and we would live happily ever after. I have a question. Two budgets have already been adopted, three prosecutors have been replaced, three, I think we're changing how "Stuff" is going to work. So when will the legal system function? I want to remind you of the effectiveness of the law enforcement system. On Bocko's side for a year, no one can say anything, the whole world has shown that all the television in the world showed him being arrested. Where's Bochkowski's case? Two of our national deputies, I want to continue, my friends, but I don't blame them, so we're seriously responsible deputies. The D.A.'s office is coming in, he says, "One of them is close to murder, kidnapping, has to be arrested. We voted joyfully; the second was involved in minor matters; we voted. One thing at a time is justifiable judgment. Yes, my friends, then we need to put those prosecutors who have misled the MPs, the Ukrainian people, downgraded the members of the Supreme Council who are sitting here and no one is saying anything. So imagine, if the prosecution goes on like this, the police are unpunished, the police are unpunished, they're going to come in today and say, "Let's arrest Petrenko," and then, "Sorry, we haven't been able to get the evidence there without discussing it without arresting anything." So I think it's a mistake to blame the Supreme Council and the imperfections of the laws. We're now translating from a person with a healthy head, roughly like our colleagues said yesterday that they're innocent, that the smallest pension in Europe is 1,074 dollars. This is when we dig up Yanukovich's foundation, and then we'll raise our pension. Guys, this is serious stuff. So we have to vote, we vote, but without an effective law enforcement system, without an effective judicial system, there will be no responsibility. So once again, I strongly request that we return to the General Prosecutor's Office's report, the resignation of the Attorney General. I strongly request that we return to the judicial system to listen to the Head of the Security Service for a long time before we hear what the Security Service is doing. We have to do everything we can to make this disgrace that we now have the largest number of crimes in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u56	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u57	You know, guys, it's really good that we do selfies, take pictures. But now we have the worst criminogenic indicators in the country. Obviously, the same should be said and heard by the minister of the interior, why the highest criminogenic indicators? Because photography is a great thing, but people's safety is the most important thing. So, reform of the law enforcement system, not the ultimate one, is Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u58	Thank you. Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. As I said before, Bill 3196 is an attempt by the drafters of the bill to actually intimidate law enforcement officials who may have been wrongly carrying out their duties in preparing and sending documents, particularly organizations that are known to carry out an international search, particularly to Interpol. We've all heard of Interpol returning documents, not because of the activities of the Kremlin agents, as some of the drafters have said, but because of improper documents and lack of evidence, the evidence base that was collected during the drafting of this package of documents. What can this tell us? This may indicate incompetence on the part of law enforcement officials or deliberate service negligence, for which it is necessary to bring these workers to criminal responsibility. Because we don't know what their purpose was. In doing so, I want to point out that the actual adoption of this bill will have unforeseeable negative consequences, because in fact the criminal investigation will not work. Why look for a person when it is possible to collect a minimum amount of evidence based on it to form an indictment and bring the material to trial? There will be appropriate judicial proceedings, and there will be a criminal conviction. And it is not clear, then, who will carry out this criminal punishment? The title of the bill is about the irreparability of punishment for serious and particularly serious crimes. Yes, me, I have a question. So who's gonna be easier? To Ukrainian society, what will be the result of a corresponding judgment and a paper - based punishment? After all, she was physically absent from the territory of Ukraine. On the other hand, we cannot by adopting appropriate acts by the Supreme Council of Ukraine stimulate the inactivity of the law enforcement system. And what's more, I'm very upset that if there's an alternative thought that goes against the drafters, they're immediately accused of being Kremlin guides and they're actually enemies of the Ukrainian people. So what I'm saying is that under these terms, you should be ashamed of the fact that you're now stretching these bills. Because there is indeed a very dangerous precedent, in which Ukraine no longer becomes a legal state, but actually a militia country where they can plant any person without it even being known. Because it may not even be drawn to the authorities of the pretrial investigation, without it to deal with criminal cases, and with indictments. This is a very serious and dangerous call.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u61	Millions of Ukrainians ask themselves questions, and why haven't we seen Yanukovich in a cage, here in Kiev, in court in two years? We need to understand that the Ukrainian people are demanding a trial against Yanukovic. And we're going to take whatever it takes every day 10, 20 laws, until he's here, in the cage. But on the question of why we didn't convict criminals, there's a very simple answer and it's on my Facebook page. Video hidden camera, as the first deputy to the new armored police force and Chebotar are discussing the schemes for winding up the gaming business and the retailer of the gaming business in Kiev! It's millions of dollars, which are then used by individual political forces for political purposes, on boards, on central television channels, when one second costs 50 to 100,000 dollars in prime time. Then these beasts, these political criminal groups, go into the Supreme Council Hall and smash into a multibillion-dollar corrupt device. They don't have time to convict and put Yanukovich in jail, because they think about the next election and how to raise money for taxpayers, like again in the next election to buy poor Ukrainians and win these elections and continue their dictatorship, bringing corruption into the House of Parliament, already engaged in political corruption. I want to pay attention to the media, you as Ukrainian citizens, as the people who have also stood on the Maidan must support us, the people's deputies and address us today, make this statement public, to the Attorney General of Ukraine. He has to come here, but to come and promise in the end to investigate complicity in the crimes of the first deputy chief of the new police and Chebotar. Eventually, they are to sit together in prison with Yanukovic. And until these so-called guardians take their seats and rob the country, you will not see Yanukovich in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u62	Thank you. Heratchenko Anton is invited to finish. Please. And let's go to the vote. Fellow MPs, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u63	Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people! Once again, I want to insist that this law is not a panacea of all woes. It is not simply necessary for Deputy Gerashchenko; it is necessary for the State of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine to restore justice in order to ensure that persons who have committed a crime and have been hiding for two years in the territory of other countries who do not intend to extradite them so that we have a legal opportunity to bring them to justice. The vote will now be on first reading, therefore any national MP who wishes to improve or amend this law will be able to amend it. I ask you to support this bill on first reading, if you want, let's discuss how to correct it in dialogue. But I'm asking you not to exhaust the process of bringing Yanukovic to justice and his calling. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u64	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, please take your seats, and the law will be discussed. Draft law (registration number 3196). There is an offer to consider it and accept it as a basis for discussion. Please, everyone, take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please give us a signal vote on the basis of 3196-D. Signal vote, please. Vote. 3196, emergency. Based on the base. [[17:13:43]] For-179 There are no votes needed. I think we still need to work with the copyright team with the MPs, and maybe we need to take a different approach to the formation of this kind of legislation. Dear colleagues, before the evening meeting, I had a meeting with the faction leaders, and there was such an offer to start looking into it now. There is no agreement between the two commissions: the DBR and the selection committee of the agency’s governing bodies. And then there's the consultation -- it's the suggestion of the faction leaders of different factions and different commissions. So here's the proposition: now consider the ruling if you're going to agree, because it's going to take 226, 4065 -- for parliamentary hearings on the Crimea. One. 4219 – To approve the decision of the Brussels Regulatory Committee, what we have worked out, 52 recommendations – two (the co-sponsors of all factions and groups of parliament). Question three. Consider, in the second reading, the Law on the Status of Social and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Victims. You know, 30 years goes by now, and we have this question to solve for the people who participated in the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster. Keep going. Consider renaming individual locations and areas, and start with those where there is no conflict. And where there is a conflict, we will not consider, but only those where there are 100 percent of the decisions of local governments, there are no conflicts and contradictions. It will restore historical justice, and we will maintain the opinion and position of the communities. If there's no objection, can I put that logic in our further action for our work? I would very much ask you to support this proposal. Did you hear that? I've already agreed with the factions, with the faction leaders. And we're going to the economy right now. I think economically, what's the situation? Look at the time: we have to do a separate day. Nothing's gonna happen. Maybe the first plenary next week. And from the first, let's start literally: 10-10.30 and go. Colleagues, please vote. That's the logic I'm proposing. I'm asking everyone to support it. There's no discussion here, and I think we all have to support it. Vote, colleagues? Please all support such a sequence, it agrees with the faction leaders and I ask everyone to support it, please. All factions and groups of Parliament please support. Vote, Your Honor. Please support the change of opinion. [[17:16:37]] For 223 Once again, dear fellows, that logic. There is, please vote, I see, I see, I see, we vote the sequence that I have proposed. Vote, please support everyone. We support, please support everyone. [[17:16:55]] For 233 Thank you, great colleagues. 233 votes. So, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on "The strategy of reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol". Alexei Hotcharenko. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please specify a reduced procedure. Well, let's report, 150 votes needed for a reduced procedure. A colleague will report and we will vote if there is no objection. [[17:17:24]] For 190 Please, Alexi Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, we have a draft ruling on Parliamentary hearings on: "The strategy of reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: issues, paths, methods and ways." It is now two years from the time Russia was conducting an annexation of the Crimean Peninsula of our territory. And it would be very right, and symbolically, for the Supreme Council to decide on these very days to finally hold the first parliamentary hearings on the subject of Crimea, because we have never held such parliamentary hearings in these two years. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building, Local Self-Government, and Regional Policy took place and held committee hearings on May 18, last year, endorsed the recommendations, and the first point of those recommendations was the holding of parliamentary hearings. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced of the importance of this issue, it's just a wild question where we have to demonstrate that the Supreme Council remembers that Crimea was, will be, and will be working to bring the Ukrainian flag closer to the day that it will dominate Crimea. I'm just two technical remarks. The draft decree, which you have been given, records the date of the hearing on April 13. However, according to the Supreme Council’s Rules, parliamentary hearings should not be held for less than 30 days, that is, at least 30 days between the appointment and the holding. As the Supreme Council has only reached this issue today, our committee made the necessary changes yesterday and we now propose to hold these parliamentary hearings on June 15th -- this is a free date and we can do it. Paragraph 2 correspondingly changes March 29 to May 30, which is when all the materials for MPs are to be prepared. Please, taking these technical changes into account, vote on the draft ruling as a whole and hold excessive parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal by the author and the national deputies, without discussion to approve the draft decree as a whole. Is there no objection? None. All national deputies please take your seats in the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, 4065, reported Alexi Hotcharenko. There is a proposal to vote on the basis and in general a draft decision on Crimea. Vote? Ready? All right, everybody, please stand by. Please vote colleagues, please support the Crimea, please support. [[17:20:26]] For 229 229, the order's been passed. Colleagues, be careful and please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, please. The next question is 4219, colleagues, the draft Decision on the implementation of the internal reform recommendations and the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of our "Ukraine Week" in the European Parliament. Reported to Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the regulatory committee. I want to point out that this decree is signed by all faction leaders. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. consider the simplified procedure. 150 votes, please. Vote. Short-term procedure, please support. These are recommendations. [[17:21:20]] For-183 Thank you. Please report to Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u67	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, meeting on 15 March 2016, discussed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the implementation of recommendations on internal reform and increasing the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Groissman, Peru, Siroid and other National Deputies, Heads of Deputies, Deputies Groups (Registration No. 4219) of 15 March 2016. The project proposes to recognize the recommendations of the European Parliament Mission as a basis for internal reform and for enhancing the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Decision on measures to implement the recommendations on internal reform and to enhance the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was introduced to Parliament by the leadership of the Supreme Council, the heads of all parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups. which demonstrates the sole opinion of Ukrainian parliamentarians in the implementation of the European course in Ukrainian statehood. The committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft decision. To complement paragraph 3 of the ruling with a new sentence: "To generalise proposals and prepare them for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." And as far as I know, there was still agreement before the invitation of the National MP Semerak. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u68	Yes. I'm going to add, honourable colleagues, suggestions on. I propose to include in the working group to prepare and facilitate the implementation of a plan of action with the European Parliament aimed at ensuring the implementation of the Mission's recommendations to the European Parliament, the head of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Committee of the Association, and to make the following point: "Creating, with the participation of the heads of the MP factions and groups and heads of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Committee of the Association, a working group to prepare and facilitate the implementation of a plan of action with the European Parliament aimed at ensuring the implementation of the recommendations of the European Parliament Mission" (52 recommendations). In fact, it's a decree that we've made public with you. or 52 recommendations resulting from our joint work in the European Parliament, and we have the support of the European partners to implement these reforms, but there is still much work to be done. So I would now ask everyone to support these recommendations as much as possible, to support this decision, taking into account the proposals that were identified in the committee's report, the committee's version, my proposal, and technical law. In particular, it's about two parts. This is the part led by our fellow MEP, Andri Plenkovic, a joint mission, and Ostap Semerak, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, please report – the report was co-reported. Two for, two against, short procedure. Please sign up. Well, I see one hand, the other hand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, colleagues, get two in favour, two in the opposite direction, and then we'll go to the vote. Please, Your Honor. People's Front. Maxim Burbak or Andrew Teteruk? Raise your hand. Maxim Burbak, okay, thanks, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to support this decision because it was a significant event, this is the Ukrainian week in the European Parliament, all the heads of factions and heads of groups, the representatives of the committees were there, and still they approved the program, that is, the results of Pet Cox's missions, these are 52 specific points that we still need to implement in our legislation in order to start reforming the legislative branch of government. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u70	Please, Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u71	Please hand over Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u72	Victor Chumak, please. Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I would like to urge you to support this decision. The Ukrainian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Ukrainian Parliament need radical changes. To be honest, what you and I are doing right now in this room is just embarrassing to look both on the side and inside this room. Constant voting, constant knee-breaking of parliament, cannot be accepted as a manifestation of European parliamentaryism. I think in principle, if we're going to talk to you about the need to adopt a new Rules, first of all, we have to do the old one. I think we should learn to respect each other's opinions and not try to vote or, let's say, forceful methods of forcing each other to vote. Parliament is a forum for discussion, Parliament is a platform for making very serious political decisions. There's another problem. Our political crisis, which is now in the country, is not a crisis of bad guys, it's not a crisis of bad government, it's a crisis of bad governance, it's a crisis of bad political decision-making. Until the political decisions come to center here, in Parliament, until then we'll be standing in such a crisis pit. I very much want this decision to be the beginning of a discussion that decisions are not made in a culinary way, not even a very respectful and important committee of Mr. Cox. And decisions should be made here, in Parliament, by discussion among all the deputies. It's a very cool decision, and very cool materials are done. Only one problem is that most parliamentarians have not read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u74	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u75	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. I think there is no doubt about the need to carry out this reform. And we will clearly vote and support the changes and developments that are being proposed to us. But I would like to understand what is happening and why such a situation has arisen. You'll excuse me, but I can't find another word to say what's going on in the Supreme Council has not been in the Supreme Council for decades. That there's a teapot on the Rules today. I don't know where they took him, they put him, he's probably there, and nobody's picked him up. Either way, they're not doing it, that's for sure, that's exactly what I can tell you. The fact that bills are voted on without reading or seeing them is clear. The fact that whole articles and amendments are made by vote is clear. The fact that the presiding officer here at half an hour calls on the deputies to take up their seats in the working room in order to start the work of Parliament at a time when, earlier at 10 p.m. and 16 p.m., the MPs began to work as they sounded. I'm sorry, there was no such thing! So this is the root right over here, right over here. And from here, we have to start, we have to start meeting the basic rule. The fact that the opposition has been driven into blue dishes and mouths are not allowed to reveal and express its opinion is also clear and visible today. Therefore, my dears, we are in two hands, but we must begin, first of all, with ourselves. And give us the basic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u76	Thank you. The factions that didn't take part in the discussion. Please, Victor Halasyuk, one minute. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, we need to support this determination and the extremely useful recommendations of the Cox mission, that's perfectly clear. They are aimed at strengthening the role of Parliament, making it more transparent and effective. But, at the same time, dear colleagues, do we need to listen only to the advice of our European partners? Should we not also listen to common sense and to one another’s thoughts? Because in fact, many of those recommendations made by the Cox Mission on a level of common sense, you and I don't have to take anything to make them live. At the same time, there are certain things that we can do today at the level of law. I would like to point out that we have introduced Law 3557, which ensures that the legislative process is more efficient. Let us make a working Friday in the Ukrainian Parliament so that we can work with you and adopt laws! Let us commit the Cabinet of Ministers to a three - hour annual report. Let us oblige ministers, deputy ministers, to go to the committee legislatively. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u78	Victor, I mean, let's make everyone walk, cooperate, interact. It's gonna be okay. Thank you for understanding. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help. Then Ivan Krulko of Fatherland. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! This is really a very important decision that we should all support. There are a number of painful things that need to be resolved right now. For example, I think that a meeting of the Conciliation Council should stop being an arena for violent political passions. We have to have a professional discussion of the laws that are priority, and we have to deal with the issues. It's not about populism. The next thing is parliamentary government control. This thing doesn't work in our parliament today because the government allows itself not to go to committee meetings, on government day, not to listen to MPs, not to give competent answers. Let's take an example of a culture of communication between Parliament and the British government, where we can all see that the government answers Parliament very professionally, gives no excuse. Moreover, our government allows itself to avoid answering requests and parliamentary requests, or to make formal comments. If we respect ourselves, if we really want to be real.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u80	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u81	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question of citizens' trust in Parliament is how effective an institution is. Unfortunately, we can say that Parliament is not fully effective. Why? First of all, because we ourselves adopt laws, including the Supreme Council Rules, which we do not comply with. And the question is whether or not we can ask the citizens of Ukraine to abide by the laws that we are adopting in this room if we are not doing the procedures that Parliament is supposed to do. This decree, which we are about to vote on, is a decree that should increase the effectiveness of Parliament's work. What is now being resolved is to be done in a public way. And what's very often turned into a show has to be decided in the working order. All these questions must be answered by the updated Supreme Council Rules. In the Supreme Council Rules, we didn't settle a lot of issues. So far, we don't know if there's a coalition or not. Legally it is gone, in fact it is gone, and some say it is. We don't know the same thing right now. We don't know what to do with laws that the President doesn't sign in violation of the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u82	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u83	And these laws come back here to the Supreme Council, and we don't know what to do with them. Thus, the main task of this Parliament is to make the Supreme Council an effective institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, the Rebirth Party certainly supports this bill. On a trip to Brussels, we are. During all the meetings with Mr. Schultz and Mr. Cox and Mr. Han talked about that Parliament needs to be reformed, this legislative spam needs to be stopped. Dozens of normative acts that are constantly being considered do not give any kind of change in Ukraine, no change in the economy, no recovery of the economy, no restoration of production. In order to change, you need to start changing yourself. We propose, first, to reduce the number of committees, to make them proportionally the number of ministries so that there is direct parliamentary control over the work of every minister, every ministry, so that ministers know where to go, which committee, not running on 3-5 committees. We suggest cutting the number of seats on committees because we have a lot of bosses, there's no one else to work with, we have committees where there's one committee member. We propose to stop the legislative spam and work as Europe does, to consider 3 issues, 4, but fundamental to the economy, for the people, for the social welfare of the people. Then this Parliament will be transformed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u86	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u87	Then this Parliament will become a truly progressive, modern European Parliament. That is why we support this legislative act, support the initiatives of the European Union and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, from the non-fractional Julius Lewchenko and move on to the vote. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u89	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, society, in order for the Supreme Council to work well, in fact, it's only two things, not some, there's a decision to import from foreign "friends" who actually propose rules that don't exist in most Western European countries, but the rules we make for us as for the Papuans. Yeah? And you have to do two things. To enforce the Ukrainian Law on Rules of the Supreme Council, right? To implement the Constitution of Ukraine and just work, that's just the people's deputies working. Because those things that are proposed, you know, when a national MP is deprived of the right to legislative initiative, you see, who gets more signatures, the law is being considered, or not collected, it's not being considered. When it's suggested that we bring in the controls that will be smoked by the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Head, likes the deputy -- doesn't throw away, not like -- he threw it out of the session room. When it is suggested that the Constitution should be re-examined that laws are passed by a majority of the constitutional order, not by anyone who has come and will, 20 deputies, adopt laws. These things can't be pushed. We're not papayas, though, we're Ukraine. Have some dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask everyone to take their seats in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, it is only the beginning of a major reform that we need to make in line with best European practices and the European Parliament. And today, I want to thank the European partners for having done this mission together and helping us shape these tasks. In fact, we can choose 150 times any parliament. But if you and I don't change the Ukrainian Parliament system by example of the European Parliament, this mess will go on forever. So it is very important that we not only take these recommendations and make them, but also that we put them into practice, and that we can make the system reboot. Then we will work in public, openly, more qualitatively, and we will form the quality laws of our beautiful state. So I urge everyone to take part in the vote now, to support these recommendations and to participate directly in making decisions that will be the basis for a change in the system. We have accumulated a lot of experience today, including our negative work together. We need to change the system, and I am deeply convinced of this and I have taken the initiative of this special mission, and I thank all my colleagues for their understanding and support. Vote? Please, the 4219d draft Decision on measures to implement the recommendations on internal reform and to enhance the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a proposal for a decision to be taken in general with technical legal remedies, committee proposals and a proposal that I have made under the transcript when considering this issue. Vote, Your Honor, as a whole. I ask you all to support yourself as much as possible. We vote, please support. [[17:38:38]] For 240 240 national deputies have the political will to change the system. Thank you, all of you, dear colleagues. I think if it wasn't for the evening session, we'd have a lot more votes. At least I want to say factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 81, "National Front" – 69, "Opposition Block" – 17, "self-help" – 16, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 16, "Fatherhood" – 6, "Rebirth" – 6, "Will of the People" – 16 and non-factional – 13. That is, everyone supported this decision. Let's move on to Chernobyl. And one more thing I'd like to say to you is that we're going to have a renaming, we're going to have enough time, if we're going to work very effectively, I'm asking you to support it. Dear colleagues, 2,093 second reading. Welcome to the rostrum of Mikola Tomenka, chairman of the committee. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I'd like a moment's attention and I'd like to convey to you the energy of yesterday's parliamentary hearings on Chernobyl, Mrs. Oksana has led, she's seen, I'd say, a little bit of concern about the disabled, the liquidators and the Chernobyls in general about the state's attitude towards them. And it's not consistent, with our general rhetoric and with the President's decree on the honor of 30-year-olds and budgets and social programs. So a group of national MPs that I want to call Marchenko, Arechenkov, Royal, Moskalenko, Tomenko, have actually worked and other people have been working for years with ministries and departments trying to compromise in part to unlock this issue and gradually intimidate and return social programs, especially key programs, are people being treated. Because in time the disease does not pass, it only gets worse -- it's the support of people, especially those who have eliminated the Chernobyl disaster and those families where the exterminator has already died. So as a result of the discussion, we considered 19 amendments and given that we understand the complexity of the socio-economic situation, the committee in discussion with the government concluded that we are only running three programs this year. All of the following start from the following fiscal year, where we will continue to debate with the government to find the opportunity to restore them from January 1, 2017. So this year, we're launching a program that deals with support for underage children, very few of them, where. In families where the liquidator died or, well, died. And for widows who raise their own children and no longer have their husband- Liquidator. That's two positions. And the third position is about non-taxation of pension workers. These are three positions that the committee has just supported, with the validity of the law. The rest of the positions that apply to sanatorium treatments that apply to other benefits, especially for children, we're moving to the next year. And we hope that in the discussion with the government in the next budget of January 1, 2017, these social programs will likewise support. So we've considered 19 amendments, 11 supported. I'd like to support the bill as a whole, and I'm ready to report on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u92	Thank you. Please, dear fellows, we have. Don't you need to go after the repairs? Does anyone have any suggestions for amendment? None. All right, your honor, that's very good, because we still have a name with you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, one minute. One moment, please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich, I have a request. Given that the time of late is already, I mean the end of the session, still vote in a signal vote. It's gonna be a sign that someone out there won't make sure that we don't fail the kind of principled bill that the whole Chernobyl community is waiting for. If we see that there is confidence, we will vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u94	Thank you for supporting innovation in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in voting so as not to break the laws. Very good. I'm glad all my colleagues understand that. Dear colleagues, registration number 2093. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on Social Protection of Victims. In line with the committee’s conclusion, it is suggested that the draft law be adopted in the second reading and in general. Noted by the Chief Legal Authority. Dear colleagues, please vote. Signal vote 2093. But I think that's enough votes. 2093 in second reading and in general. Signal vote. The author asked me. Please vote. Yes, there are voices. [[17:44:34]] For 253 253 votes. In the second reading and in general, please vote. In the second reading and in general. With the committee's technical legal regulations. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:44:54]] For 261 261, the law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats. We are restoring historical justice. We're restoring, we're renaming the settlements of Ukraine. Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk reports. Please, Mikola Trochymovich. Project Order 4084. Please consider the simplified procedure. 4084, we still have half an hour, please remain in place, please vote in favour of the short procedure of the Rename Order, please. [[17:45:38]] For-161
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is now under the order for registration number 4084. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this draft Decision is in line with the local authorities, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the renaming of these locations, and no one has any objection. It is suggested that 152 proposals be considered for the renaming of settlements in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, and a number of others, Cherkaske, Chernigiv, and a number of other areas. suggests that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u96	4084, right, Mikola Trochymovich? 4084? Colleagues, there's 4084, right? Please, 4084. Then I'll give you who raises your hand, and then I'll let you know that we'll be there. We have a deal like this, if there's a conflict somewhere, we'll put it aside and then the committee, the commission of the committee will work. Okay? Please, Sergey Capplin, one minute. All in a minute, but very tight. Now, there are deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! I'd like to draw your attention to the city of Komsomolsk Poltava. There was a discussion first. And Komsomolski's name on the Mountain Plown or Russian is Gorekhovov Bolota, unfortunately, or fortunately the Komsomols don't want it. I have a very big request from 97 percent of the citizens who took part in the local large-scale survey to put this question down to, at best, to better times, and at worst, to some extent until the community decides on the name that sets the citizens, so that there is no conflict here. This is the clear position of the community. Several thousand citizens took part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u98	Dear colleague, I tell you again. Not here, there is no Komsomolska in this decree. There are not all the issues that are not compatible with local self - government, with the community, in this decree. That is, it is in another determination, but which we will not consider today in agreement with the Presidium. There are no questions here, all questions agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Very, very much. There's no conflict here, there's no conflict here. It was all here. I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u100	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Respectable Society! This is a question that concerns, in fact, this determination. We've been approached, we've been approached by the community of the city of Ordjonikidze. There's all the evidence, all the signatures. The point is that the city's new authority basically falsified, said that there was some kind of public hearing that was not actually there, no public hearings. And there is a name that contradicts the proposals of the Institute of National Memory, which was proposed by the name of the Great Lübeck. We were approached by the community and asked if you would put the question aside. And the committee discussed this. So, I'm asking you now, let's put this question aside so that we can take a separate decision or a separate decision to consider it. Because I have personally studied these documents and there is clear evidence that the city authorities have falsified public hearings that have not been heard and proposes a name that contradicts the offer of Wind and historical memory. Please put that down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u101	Thank you. I heard you. There is Vladimir Vjatrović, who can answer. Ready to answer, Mr. Volodymyr? No, from the place, please, where the microphone is, on the front row. Please, Vladimir Vjatrović, comment immediately, this is an important question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u102	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory has indeed proposed the name of the Great Lug. But then on the committee, the name Cover was proposed on behalf of the local self - government. Like the Institute of National Memory, we support those proposals that come from local self - government. If there's a problem with the fact that this name actually doesn't reflect the idea of local self-government, we can think about it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u103	Thank you. Please. Is that why you're here? People's MP Shipko on this matter. Please. That's the question, and I'm going to give Alona a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I represent the city of Ordzhonikidze. I've got eight and a half thousand signatures in my hands. And multiplying by three, that's the big half of the city that you ask not to rename Ordzhonikidze and leave. But, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I have to, I have to explain further. But when we do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we listen here, I must inform you. Let's move on. But when we were talking to the local community, when the local self-government was in charge. And the birthday of Ordzhonikidze 14.10 on the roof of the Holy Virgin. And the coat of arms of the city is the icon of the Holy Virgin of the Roof. And the local community is asking for the name of the roof. I was on the committee, I showed it all, there were representatives, and they're asking me to leave the city of Cover. Therefore, I ask you not to give in to any insinuation, but to vote as adopted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u105	Come on, please. One minute, one minute, one minute. Next, please, Alona Skrum. No, it's not. There's no more offer. All of it. No more suggestions, colleagues? Look, look out! Take all your seats. Colleagues, there's an offer next to take your seats. All of these decisions are in agreement with the local authorities. Don't worry. Don't worry. Take your seats, please, everything will be fine. Oh, Oleg Lazko has another question. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u106	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, my dear compatriots from the region of Chernigiv, in the village of Petrovka, asked to leave this melodious name of this famous village. The village of Petrovka, my native Borznjanščina, is proposed to be renamed the village of Nechovka. For example, I wouldn't mind living in a nuthouse myself, but the Peters in a nut job don't want to live. And we need to respect the people of Petrovka who do not want to be thieves. So I'm asking you to remove Petrovka. Petrovka is Peter and Paul, a Ukrainian resident of Petrovka, who want to live in their native village with that name. And the Knave. We'll find a place for the Delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. Vladimir Vjatrović. Listen, please, he is thoroughly aware of this position and these questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Oleg Lazko, unfortunately, the name "Petrovka" has nothing to do with St. Peter, and so on, it refers to Gregory Petrovsky, one of the organizers of the Holodomor in Ukraine. And it was in his honor that this village was named as evidence of historical documents. That's why I would like to pay attention to this so that we don't leave the names on the map of Ukraine of those people who are connected to the communist totalitarian regime, even if they look as gracious as "Petrovka."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, once again, I'm talking to you and I'm saying that when you were handing out materials, you weren't working with them, and now you're coming and explaining these questions. Once again, all questions. This question is put to the vote, Decree No. 4084 is in agreement with the local government, the executive branch and the National Memory Institute, and there are no objections. Offers are now being made on the roof, on the Ordjonikidze delete and so on. You're gonna have to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I think we should do it this way. We have a decision to make. This decision has been discussed many times. If the inhabitants of the village of Petrovka do not want to live in the town of Nechovka, I think it deserves our attention. And we're asking this question outside of this decision, and on the committee, this question will be settled definitively. And then, according to Orjoniqueda, we have two questions, there's Cover and so on. Cover. So now we're going to define the way. [[B in m in s a l in]] But the main thing is that there are no Peters in this decree, nor are there any Magna Carta. Please, Andrew Parobius. Calm down, fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to rest, we make one of the most important and fundamental decisions. You don't pay attention to the text of this decision, almost all the conflict issues that you're making are not in this decision -- there's no Petrovka in this decision. This decree contains all the issues that are fully agreed upon with the local communities. Friends, this is a huge historical thing: the local communities have made their own decision to take the "molech" of Communistism out of their names. A decision for us, for the parliament that came from Midan. Let's not talk about this, let's stop the discussion on this. All questions are agreed with the local communities. Please vote. And please support, colleagues, this is the historic decision of the new Ukrainian state. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u113	Dear fellow national MPs! Please, let's restore historical justice and that's very important, actually. What is more, the desire of the local authorities to do so, we only have to confirm it, in fact, our own. I'd like everyone to support it, colleagues. Please, come on, there's going to be a signal vote now, take your seats, the draft ruling in that version prepared by the committee, that's regulation 4084. I'm asking you to support everyone, please, dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. The signal vote, let's support it, it's very, very important. Ready to vote? In general, the 4,084 vote of this order, I ask all members of the people to support the restoration of historical justice according to the consent of local self-government authorities. Vote, vote, please all support, vote, colleagues. [[17:57:46]] For 216 There are voices, colleagues, we need to mobilize. No one would mind if I put it to the vote again or against it? Here's what I'm saying, when I'm being criticized for this, I need to understand what it's about. Please, colleagues. We didn't make it? I see. How else can you make the decisions that the country needs, explain to me? If anyone knows better, show them. Please, Your Honor, once again in the version of the committee with technical legal rights in general, the signal vote of the draft decision. All colleagues, please support 4084, we vote. Please support me, colleagues. Everyone, please back up, vote, please support. Vote, please support, vote. [[17:58:37]] For 231 Great! Now, in general, please vote, please vote, no one leaves. We all vote, 23. 4084 according to my offer, which I announced under the transcript. We vote, we restore historical justice, we vote! Everyone, please back up! [[17:59:01]] For 231 231 – decision adopted. Congratulations, fellow countrymen! Please, Mikola Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! Taking into account that the terms of the law have come out and after changes to the renaming, there is such a request, and we are now approached by the Committee of the Supreme Council with 105 population points that are asked to be reviewed in one way or another by the new name of their population, two thirds of the time the Institute of National Memory agrees. So I'm asking, Vladimir Borisovich, to have the committee come back to look at the issues so that you can get out, let's say, beyond the deadlines, and we can take into account the opinions of most of the populous points that came out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u115	Once again, please state, Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u116	So I'm asking you to assign a committee, give the commission to the committee to consider the application and the bills that apply to the city of Kirovograd, other names, as well as the population points 105) that ask for clarification of their names. They made proposals after the deadline that was set for November 21. Therefore, there is a suggestion that the Supreme Council should give such an assignment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u117	Thank you. I'm giving a protocol order. Please, please. And, dear colleagues, I think we can do that. But, uh, just a minute. Is she coming? A protocol assignment? Let us vote on the proposal of Mikola Trochymovich. The commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine And we're going to form it with a separate solution. Please support me. Vote, colleagues. Please support this assignment. Vote. Please vote. Come on, let's go, colleagues. [[18:01:29]] For 217 Apparently, not everyone heard. Again. It's a profile assignment. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll be the third time. Give the commission to the committee to work on it. What he said under the transcript of Mikola Trochymovich. This should be further developed. All the laws that are involved. Please, I'm putting the appropriate proposal to the vote. Please support, we need 226. Everyone, please back up, vote, please support. Vote. Please support everyone, colleagues. [[18:02:05]] For 227 The decision has been made. Thank you. One minute, please, Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich. Education issues, colleagues. Yesterday, a full procedure was considered, not voted on, listen to what's going on, and I'm asking you to support it. Then I'll have two announcements and we can. Please, Lilia Mikhaylovna, literally invest in a minute. Listen, listen up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed in full procedure the draft Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens, and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine regarding the right to education. All those who were in the hall were supported, all factions. This is about how to improve access to higher vocational education for children in occupied areas. I also read under the transcript the amendments that need to be made to this law. I very much ask everyone to vote now, it is important and urgent for this to be reflected under the conditions of admission to this introductory campaign. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-17-m1.u119	Colleagues, please, the number of the law we have, it's in order of the day, 3832. He's fine. He was fine yesterday. From the discussion, as discussed earlier. We need to make a decision on it. 3832, as a whole, with proposals, with technical legal remedies that were announced by the committee head. Is it accepted? During the discussion. Vote. Please all support this law as a whole. Vote. Yesterday he was discussed in full procedure, there were no warnings. Technical law and committee proposals. Vote. 3832, 3832 in total. Please support all your colleagues. Please support everyone. [[18:04:09]] For 228 Decision approved, law approved. Dear colleagues, two announcements. First announcement, announcement. A new interfractional union has been created, "Ukraine is a space state", and the head of the interfractional union has been elected the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrija Anatoliovich Teteruk. And, Your Honor, I haven't received a response from the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General, to the willingness to participate in the session where we're going to be. to consider the issue of his resignation today. That's why I'm anouncing right now that there's no misunderstanding about 29 numbers in the plenary, in the morning plenary, we're going to discuss the issue of consenting to the release of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I would like all the national deputies to be present in the hall. I also ask the Attorney General to be present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, fellows of honor! Evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (29th). A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, evening, I declare closed. The next meeting is at 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you.
