ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, 16 hours, break time is over. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, prepare for registration. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for your registration for the evening session. Come into the hall, please prepare for registration. Dear fellow MPs, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. Please. [[16:08:17]] 324 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you a few important things. Now we're going to have a second reading -- 3224. The law is necessary for visa liberalisation. It's extremely important. Last time he didn't get two votes. You should have made one, this has been introduced. Then we have a natural gas market, an important bill. Then there was local self - government, which required many factions in Parliament. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to mobilize yourself, get into the hall and prepare for important work. And an airplane building on which the chairman of the committee emphasized. We all have a chance to accept it. We all have a chance to get through. We just need a higher level of discipline. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Now I've received statements from two factions: the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction -- a statement for a break. But they're willing to replace it with a tribune.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u2	No, it's not. They're ready to replace. Colleagues, let's not take a break, let's work. And I'm from two factions. Do you have two factions? No, right? From two factions, I give my word to whom? Self-help, who's the word? Candlesticks? Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, two factions, please. Please, three minutes. And let's get to work, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am now addressing Ukrainian citizens. The criminal authority that carries out the tariff genocide against the Ukrainians has declared and conducts a huge wave of repression against the Radical Party team, which blocks and opposes the tariff genocide. Today, literally an hour ago, in the city of Mena Chernigiv, the city of Gennady Primakov, in which more than 60 percent of the people voted, was the mayor of the city elected by the Radical Party, the city of Mana in Chernihyevska, and was detained by the head of the party district organization of the Chernigiv district of Valeri Haydukevich. Both of these Cossacks, who are members of the Radical Party, who provide a radical order in Menschin, who enjoy the enormous support and respect of the locals, have returned to the communal property of the water canals, have ordered order in the city, and have not allowed the funds of both of these people to be stolen, and Hennady Primakow and Valery Haydukewich, have accused them of being bribed there. Let my hand dry if someone gets bribes there. All these political repressions, all these forgeries of criminal cases, as we once had our Igor Mosiyczuk, the deputy, having arranged a video circus and holding it in bulk. Similarly, in the forerunners of the 206th district of Chernigov, they try to discredit officials. The radicals who have the support of people who fight corruption. Why does the authorities do this? The first is to discredit the Radical Party team. In the 206th district, the Radical Party candidate, Dmitri Blaush, wins. He is opposed to the outpouring of power. Maksim Mikitas, who created a network of bribes for residents of the Chernigiv district, Ripkinsky district, Chernigova. And to stop our winning move, the authorities are organizing these provocations. The second month the Radical Party team fights here against the corruption of the Dusty and its environment, against the tariff genocide conducted by the authorities, they organize provocations, Lucenko comes out here telling stories, then they set up provocations against our officials. I'm calling on the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, to stop the provocations, falsify criminal cases, and thus execute President Dustenk's teams to discredit the Radical Party team. We'll fight for every radical, every member of the team. We won't let the authorities, no matter how much they try to discredit us, we won't let the authorities rob the Ukrainians, and we'll keep fighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This draft Law 3224, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifys a person or his or her special status, failure to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union. And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report. Alexander Ivanovich, please. Alexander Ivanovich will report from the scene. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u5	Dear Head, dear colleagues. On January 28, 2016, Bill No. 3224 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. June 14 was sent to the committee for a second reading. In accordance with the regulations, the committee accepted proposals by June 28. The Committee on Information and Communications considered at its meeting on July 6, 2016, a draft law and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on second reading and in general as a committee law. In all, 136 proposals were made to the draft law from the legislators. Comparative table prepared, selected proposals processed. 96 amendments were included. Partially counted -2. Not counted, 38. One of the key money in the bill is the introduction of a Ukrainian citizen's passport in the form of an electronic media card, which contains information about a person that will minimize the likelihood of another person being identified. In addition, this will enhance the effectiveness of national security measures in situations of military aggression. The right to refuse biometric information will ensure respect for the constitutional principle of non-discrimination, equality of citizens before the law, regardless of religion. The operation of a single high-security passport document in a state will minimize the possibility of counterfeiting it. I want to make your point that this is a very important norm in terms of war, and also in terms of waiting for a visa-free regime. Proposals by national deputies to increase the cost of administrative services are proposed by the committee to reject. In addition, it is proposed to support proposals for the cost of administrative services and the shortening of the deadline. It is also suggested that the proposals and observations of the General Legal Authority be supported. The bill provides for the approval of the marginal value of administrative services at the level of the law, not by regulations as they are today. In doing so, local authorities can exempt certain categories of persons from the cost of administrative services for processing, the exchange of documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, and the person or his or her special status. In addition, in order to increase the level of protection of documents such as help, residence permits and temporary residence permits, it would be appropriate to produce a card in the form of a non-contact electronic medium, as envisaged by the authors of the bill, in accordance with Amendments 117 and 118, should be rejected in the final edition. I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is fundamental and fundamental in terms of building a digital society in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u6	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u7	The electronic digital signature, the ability to identify, the inability to fake, is a base on the way to digital society in the state. Electronic services are the fight against corruption. And we will remove that barrier, which is in the form of officials when they do. Ukrainian citizens should receive electronic services. It will be very easy to overcome corruption. I very much ask, honourable national MPs, I very much ask you to take this bill carefully and determine whether we are for the modern state, whether we are for safety, or whether we are for a visa-free regime, or do we want to remain in the past? And I have a request from the chairman. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, before the vote, I very much hope that the people's deputies will be in the hall, but before the vote, we'll have a rating vote. Thank you. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u8	Alexander Ivanovich, I will do as you ask. Although I remember, last time we were missing a few votes, actually from your faction. I hope so much and I believe that we will all come together and we will all vote together. Now we're going after the amendments, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take care of their work and take responsibility. The second amendment requires the word Valérie Paccan, the second amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u9	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, we have a conflict in our second amendment, I ask you to correct the second amendment now, and I will read it. The Colosseum was that we do not allow our citizens to enter the territory of the State of Ukraine without their passports. It is suggested that those citizens should enter the territory of our country and have their documents redrafted. In accordance with article 33 of the Ukrainian Constitution, a Ukrainian citizen cannot be deprived of the right to return to Ukraine at any time. And I ask you to complete the text of article 2 (1) of section I of the bill with a new paragraph of this content: "A Ukrainian citizen has the right to enter Ukraine at any time with a Ukrainian citizen's passport." Ukrainian citizens' passports, which Ukraine's citizens in the established Ukrainian legislation have not affixed a new photo card since they reached the age of 25 or 45, are valid for entry into Ukraine. Section III, paragraph 5, of the "Ends" and the "Transitions" should be worded in such an order. "Resolve that child's travel papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u10	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u11	. seen before this law takes effect, are valid until the end of their term of office and can be used for entering Ukraine and leaving Ukraine of the persons to whom they are issued. " I ask you to correct this so that we can allow all citizens of Ukraine to travel to the territory, to properly form their passports, and in this way not to push our citizens away from us, from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, head of the committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u13	I want to say, first of all, that the same line is counted. Counted. Edit number two, it's counted. Maybe it's an old table, but number two is counted. I ask you to comment, Mr. Sokoluk, the head of the Migration Service. If you don't mind, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u14	Please, Head of the Migration Service, have you heard the deputy's speech? Please comment. One minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u15	The kid was referring to a 134, it's accounted for. It has been established that documents issued before this law is effective during the period for which they are issued. Furthermore, Ukrainian citizens’ passports, which have photos, are valid for entry. This is an account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u16	Mr. Valérie, is there a comprehensive answer? No, tell me, is it complete or unanswerable? Please, I'll ask you, while there's a discussion, with the head of the committee, with the head of the Migration Service, to specify everything, and we'll set up your amendment if that's necessary. Please make sure that there are no misunderstandings during the discussion. Let's keep going. So 9-a, Siroid. Semenha. Please turn on the Semensi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, during the review of the second reading on our Committee on Information and Communication, there were many discussions, but the cornerstone was found to be the only reason he was sent to read again, the subject, or to give the DP a document the right to provide administrative services alongside the CNAPAs and the Centres for Administrative Services. In our view, the granting of such a right is in direct contravention of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services, which prohibits the provision of administrative services through economic operators. So the amendment is just called to exclude DP "Document" from entities that can provide administrative services. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u18	The committee head, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u19	The committee did not support this amendment by a majority of votes, because all the questions before the DP document, they carried out their reform. Now the DP document is physically separated from the Migration Service. And the examples of Poland, Germany, that such important issues as passports, domestic passports, foreign passports, they are in one place and in a state enterprise. And what I want to say is that the data registry manager can only be a state-owned enterprise, and I want to pay attention to that. Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u20	Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 9. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[16:24:00]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 10 lashes, Rizanenko. Don't insist. 13th Rizanenko. Don't insist. 22nd, Siroid. Don't insist. 35th Syroid. Don't insist. 55th is a Siroid. Don't insist. 56th. 55th, insists. Please, Semenha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the essence of the law is who, first of all, has to determine the value of administrative services. In the proposed editorial committee, the cost of administrative services is established by the Cabinet of Ministers within the limits of the cost of administrative services established by this law. We are convinced that the amount of remuneration for the provision of administrative services should be determined by law, taking into account their social and economic significance. The proper establishment of the value of administrative services by the Cabinet of Ministers is a direct violation of this standard. So I insist on this right that gives the law the right to determine the value of administrative services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u22	Mr. Alexander, will you comment? Should I put it to the vote right away?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u23	The committee did not support this amendment either. Because we think that the law should impose border tariffs. And if a bill prescribes a tariff, it does not allow it to then change depending on the situation. We need to adopt new laws. Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment. And please don't support her either.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u24	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting 55, National Deputy Siroid. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:26:12]] For-95 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you more intensively. There seem to be people in the room. We can now move on to making a decision. Just a little more intense. 56th Sobolev. Don't insist. 58th, Siroid. Don't insist. 59th, Sobolev. Don't insist. 60th, Siroid. Don't insist. 61st, Sobolev. Don't insist. 62th, Siroid. Don't insist. 63rd Sobolev. Don't insist. 64th, Siroid. Don't insist. 65th Sobolev. Don't insist. 69th, Sobolev. Don't insist. 73rd Sobolev. Don't insist. 76th Sobolev. Don't insist. The '90s, Sobolev. Don't insist. 91st, Siroid. Don't insist. 97th, Pinzenik Victor. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 106th, Siroid. Don't insist. 109th, Rizanenko. Don't insist. Colleagues, in a few minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I very much ask all fellow MPs to come into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that a vote will take place. And, colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this bill. Please come into the hall. 122nd, Danchenko. Don't insist. 127th, Siroid. Don't insist. 130th, Sobolev. Don't insist. 133rd, Pinzenik. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the paperwork that we've been through. I ask now that we clarify the situation that we had at the beginning. Valérie Paccan, please, one minute. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u25	Guys, I'm going to emphasize again and I'm going to explain it to you. Yes, the bill is taken into account, but only in part, that is to say that our citizens will enter from those countries that we have agreements, this is Ukraine, this is Russia, Belarus. From other countries, let us allow our citizens to enter the territory of our nation. I ask you to support this part of the amendment and vote on it. Let us not restrict or violate the rights of Ukrainian citizens to return to their homeland. Please support the adjustment part and throw away the part where there are interstate agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u26	Mr. Alexander, tell me if you don't mind if we set it up with his readjustment. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u27	I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u28	Okay, thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone agrees? All of them. I'll put it this way: on the second reading with the amendment that was announced under the transcript by Valérie Paccan. Okay? You've read it, haven't you? Colleagues, please take up jobs, colleagues. Colleagues, as the chairman of the committee has asked, I'm going to put them on a rating vote. I want to remind you, colleagues, a few words. May I have your attention, please? The bill is necessary for visa liberalisation. A bill that does not affect any political interests. This is our opportunity and our will to give impetus to our citizens. I'm very much asking, colleagues, and I'm also addressing the Radical Party personally. Please support your colleagues on this subject, which is not discussed. I'm asking you to support colleagues of all factions. And to the Radical Party and Fatherland: I'm really asking you to support this bill. Can we try the ratings? We can. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the ratings vote, your honors. Please don't go out, just go into the hall. Invite everyone into the hall who's in the towers. Colleagues, please take part in the vote, colleagues. Please vote on the rating vote. Please vote. [[16:31:14]] For 197 Colleagues, by factions, please show by factions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite MPs. And I'm really talking. This is the self-help bill, colleagues, this is your colleagues' bill. Support, Fatherland, Radical Party. Yes, please. We're going to reject it now, and it's going to be a very bad sign for Europeans. Guys, please. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, 30 seconds, meet me in the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. At the request of the factions, I'll wait another 30 seconds. But please mobilize the room as much as possible during that period. 30 seconds for all deputies to assemble. Please. I'd like you to come in and take jobs. So, colleagues, please come to the hall. Come, please. Colleagues, now I'm going to put up another rating vote, colleagues. Are you guys ready? Everybody in place? Colleagues, I'm re-voting Bill 3224 to fulfil Ukraine's visa liberalisation commitments with the European Union. Colleagues, rating vote. Please take part. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:36:34]] For 207 We're short a few votes, colleagues, a few votes. It's a visa-free mode. This is what we made commitments, we promised our citizens, and this was the general position of all factions, everyone on the air is talking about it. Colleagues, please come to the hall. Once again, the Radical Party, I ask you very much, your vote depends on this bill, my colleague. Please hold another consultation. Please consult and support your colleagues. Please, Irina Heratschenko one minute while the MPs are on their way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that we voted this bill with you on the first reading. And that's when the European side admitted that Ukraine had implemented a plan of action for visa liberalisation essentially with an advance. Because we have made a commitment that by the end of this session we will be voting on this bill for a second reading. And here we should thank our self-help colleague, whose committee was working on this bill, took into account all the important issues. So we very much ask you to go back to the session room and vote in favour of this bill. This is really part of our commitment under the visa-free regime. And you know the latest information with Brussels that in September the European Parliament will also consider a visa-free case in Ukraine and by the end of the year, Ukraine will have a visa-free regime. Please return to the session room and let us fulfill our obligation in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u30	Colleagues, someone has to be responsible for the fact that there is no visa-free regime. I ask in this matter that everyone be united regardless of factions. One more minute. Head of the Committee, Alexander Danchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I ask you to make this responsible decision before the holidays. I ask you very much to return to the hall. It is our duty to make the right governmental decisions. The bill is innovative. It's a start, it's a base for the introduction of electronic services in the state. None of the speakers today objected. Every edit sent. We had many meetings, such as with the Council of Churches. Everyone supports this bill. Everybody backs up. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote and support the future of the digital state and the visa-free regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I'm calling again, including the "Radical Party." These are the moments where we have our overall responsibility. I'm asking you to vote with me right now. I'm asking everyone to come to work. Colleagues. While the MPs are on their way, 30 seconds to Heratchenko Anton, 30 seconds. And please come into the hall. Don't go out there, colleagues. Come in. He's 30 seconds away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, almost all of us promise our constituents that Ukraine will be part of the European community. Act 3224, drafted by the Ministry of the Interior, aims at enabling every Ukrainian citizen to use a passport in the form of a card that would precede many European countries. This law is necessary for every Ukrainian citizen to carry a plastic card, such as Estonia, Germany, England and other countries, instead of a paper passport. Please vote for Ukrainians to be at European level, at least at passport level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u34	Colleagues, I see a number of deputies have entered the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Sorry, I'll put it on the ratings again, colleagues. I'll put it back on the ratings, colleagues, so we can see what's in the hall. So, colleagues, I very much ask you once again: all together, the 3224 rating vote on the implementation of Ukraine's visa liberalisation commitments with the European Union. Colleagues who support this proposal, rating, please vote. Colleagues, please, we all vote together. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:41:20]] For 216 A few votes, colleagues, a few votes. Colleagues, we're capable, are all the voices in the room? I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Colleagues, a few votes, a system law required to liberalize a visa-free regime. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, there are only a few votes missing. Colleagues, call the deputies who are in the towers. Are the deputies in the hall? Olenna, please. Please, I'll do it again. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. This is a question of the general obligations of the State of Ukraine, not of any faction. I thank all those who support you very much, and I ask you to return to the hall that has come out. Are the deputies here? Is that right? I saw three come in here, two through that door. Colleagues, please prepare. I'm going to put the votes back on, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the 3224 vote on the bill, is aimed at liberalisation with the European Union of Visas for Ukraine. Sergei! Please take part in the vote, please support 3224 visa liberalisation for Ukrainians, citizens. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:44:59]] For 217 I am convinced that all Europeans are in place and support European integration. I'm sure none of them are outside the hall and full of Euro-optimism. Eshchenko is here. Please, Mustafa Nayem, one minute. He will call on all the Eurooptimists to vote. Please, Mustafa. Turn on Mustafa Najem's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u35	I appeal to all my colleagues who do not vote: I have also made amendments to this law. And I'm talking to you, Egor, and Victoria the Birdman: listen, this is a law that has problems. But now. It's working now. If we do not now introduce this law, we will not correct anything, but we will lose the argument to push further in our view. Moreover, this law is indeed a requirement of the European Union for visa-free treatment. You know that! Why are you making an argument against us? Let us vote and take a decision, and then jointly make changes. This is the right way out. And I'm talking to my colleagues at the Radical Party -- you guys were talking about visa-free mode. It's not for the coalition, it's for everyone. Let's take one vote. I'm talking to Oleg Lazko: explain, well, why not pass this law? It's okay! Let him say the line, but it's okay to vote now and then, make the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u36	Okay! It was called a last name. I'll give you a word. One minute, please. And please come into the hall. I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. Please, reply, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u37	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, may I have your attention? We've been told for months here that the requirements of the European Union, we have to vote one, two, twenty, thirty to finally be given a visa-free regime. I ask: Where is the promised visa-free regime? At the beginning of 2016, in June 2016, we are now told that a visa-free regime will be in autumn. And in autumn, another 100 reasons will be found to tell us why there is no visa-free regime. Listen, we're going to have to go through enough trouble with the visa-free regimes that Europe doesn't give us under any circumstances, because they're afraid of us. Where's the free trade agreement? Four thousand tons of sugar is a sales quota for Ukrainian sugar, is that a free trade agreement? Let us defend the national interests of Ukraine. Against terrorism, against migrants, against everything else. Vote for low tariffs, and then we'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, our commitment as the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Ukrainian citizens is equally independent of other issues. I'm sure this question can't separate us. Colleagues, but we have no other way out. I'm going to put the ratings vote again. If there are no votes, I'll have to decline. Colleagues, I don't have another way out. Yegor, this is very important. Did they mention you, Yegor? You mentioned Jehora, didn't you? It was mentioned, wasn't it? Please, 30 seconds and we'll vote. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u39	This law was declared corruptible. I'm here to make sure we have a visa-free regime. What, though, is the purpose of granting the State - owned enterprise the right to earn on behalf of the State? There's a private business or a business that's done under the cover of the state. Let's create a state-owned company Customs, a state-owned enterprise Police, a state-owned enterprise The Court, let's call it all, to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union. Why would you cheat on your own citizens and parliament? This law contains corrupt rules, so I have voted and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u40	Colleagues, discussion over. We've already discussed what we could do. We've already raised our voices as we could. Now I'm going to put the proposal back on the vote. If not, say, the second reading will be supported? It will be supported. If he doesn't get the votes now, let's go back to re-reading. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I ask, now, colleagues, to vote on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status to fulfil Ukraine's obligations to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union (number 3224). I emphasize: visa-free liberalisation. the visa regime is also hidden in that law too. I'm making a proposal to the committee -- second reading and generally. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. I ask you to vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:51:28]] For 226 Decision taken, colleagues. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. With Patchan's amendment, I said. I was saying that with the correction that the Packaan made under the transcript. With the amendment made by Paccan (for the transcript) The law is passed. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Dear colleagues, we now have a number of important bills. I'm asking you to stay put. In particular, colleagues, we said that we would have local self-government in voting and deregulation today. The next is the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of decision 4868: about the natural gas market. I'll bet. If there's support, let's move on, there's no support, there's another bill. I'm asking everyone to focus. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the natural gas market (4868). Who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote 4868. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:52:50]] For 199 There is no will to accept the natural gas market. Colleagues, now local self - government. The first to be given to us by the committee, colleagues, 4772. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the voluntary accession of the territorial communities). I hope everyone in the factions knows 4772. The Conciliation Council requirement is local self-government. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Please vote. [[16:53:37]] For 205 Next. The decision is not made. Next, from the section “local self-government”, is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for voluntary accession of territorial communities) (4773). Who supports inclusion. All right, one minute, Krivenko. The bird's one minute to explain. It won't be deflected, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please, Birdman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, please explain to Victoria the Bird. Come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to return and vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda for the purpose of adopting the decision of Bill 4772, because this is one of the most important decentralization bills that will allow us to begin the process of creating right now. The procedure for simplifying the integration of the united territorial communities that have remained outside the process of unification. You know, last year we successfully created 159 territorial communities. If we now include this bill, and then the Council will adopt it, it will allow us to create an additional 200 united communities this year. Powerful, yes. So please, let's put it in the agenda. This bill is supported by all civil society, including the Institute of Civil Society, the RDP, the Ministry of Education. And this is actually one of the bills that people in the regions are asking about when we're going to adopt it. Please, let's go back to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Honorable colleagues. We don't have to go back. We haven't done it yet. We don't have a discussion. It's a day-to-day session for decision-making. There will be voices -- let's go, talk, no votes -- we don't go, we don't talk. I propose the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of a decision of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for voluntary accession of the territorial communities) (4773). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[16:56:07]] For-189 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we need to work with factions. There was a request from the Conciliation Council, I put it. Sadly, there is no support for their consideration. The next two bills we can't even put in, because they're derived from those. Next, I propose, draft Law 4831, which required Peter Dustenka's Block. 4831, 4831-1. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration. Dear colleagues who support the inclusion of the agenda and decision-making, please vote. Please, colleagues, we have a vote of 4831. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:57:04]] For 197 The decision is not made. Next, that's what they've been talking about all day. Airlifts, colleagues. After the plane was built, all factions were required to build today. We don't go to them. Dear colleagues, I ask you, I have been approached by many factions, and a proposal will now be made for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. I'm sure Victor Halasyuk, who demanded this vote, will support the entire faction. I have no doubt about it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation of conditions for international cooperation of aircraft construction and development entities (4809). Who supports the proposal to include the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:58:20]] For 213 For the first time, we are close to making a decision. Do we have the potential, Mr. Arthur? I'm asking everyone to focus. This is close to making a decision. I'll put it again, colleagues. I'll do it again. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. 'Cause there's almost enough voices. That's it. I would like to point out that under the Rules there is no need to go back to the agenda, I can bet as many times as I can. I take this opportunity only when I see that the decision is close to being made. When there's a lot missing, I don't take advantage of it. In this case, I have heard the demand of many deputies from different factions that we put it to the vote. Victor Halasyuk was very angry and determined to give me a talk today. And I'm putting it on the demand of most factions, colleagues. And I am convinced that I will be heard and that the MPs will support it. Can I put it to a vote? Once again, I am proposing a draft Law on Amendments, Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation of conditions for the international cooperation of aircraft construction and development entities (4809) for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Who supports the proposal. Colleagues who support. First of all, take up jobs. Please vote, colleagues. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. 4809 is an agenda for decision-making. [[17:00:20]] For 230 They've put it in order of the day. We'll be able to look at it. Colleagues, there's a requirement, I'll do it because I have the right to do it. There is a requirement of 4772 (local self-government) once again, colleagues. I'll ask again, if there's such a requirement, I'll give Dombrowski a minute to explain. Please, one minute of Dombrowski. I'll do it again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I, on behalf of the Committee on Fuel and Energy and the National Deputies of Ukraine, would like to return to Law 4868 on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in accordance with the Law on the Market in Natural Gas. The country needs to prepare for the winter. There are a number of very technical norms that we need to implement in order for the country to enter the heating season normally and in order to be able to address the problems of Ukrainian tariff policy, including gas, rather than simply to shape its policy of theatricalizing all of this. So I'd like to re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u45	Thank you. Antonistek, one minute. Andrew Antonishtak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u46	Antonistak. Please include Bill 3752 in the agenda. It's a social bill, it consists of literally two sentences, it's a matter of 332 wives of dead officers and soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Look, there's a vote coming up. I'm going to put the natural gas market again, and the local self-government, but I'm not going to do it indefinitely, because we're just wasting time. I'll do it again, please concentrate as soon as possible. I ask you to concentrate now, and I'm going to ask the people's deputies once more. But if it doesn't pick it up again now, well, that's no longer the point. So I'm going to re-proposal for 4,868 natural gas markets first. I am also firmly convinced that the law is essential for Ukraine, which is essential for our cooperation with our partners. But if there are no votes, it's hard to follow. So I'm proposing once again to set the agenda for the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for their compliance with the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act 4868). Anyone who supports, please vote, please support. We're voting 4868 colleagues. [[17:03:31]] For 211 211, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm not taking votes from anywhere. I'll bet again. I'll be right there. Local self-governance at the request of deputies Krivenk and Ptashnik Concentrate on the MPs. Once again, I will put to the vote 4772, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the voluntary accession of the territorial communities). Who will support the proposal to include the agenda of the day session for decision-making please vote. Please vote. [[17:04:17]] For 203 203 for. None. Dear colleagues, let's take a look at what I've announced. Let's go with that logic. What I announced. Colleagues, but I'm going to re-suppose Antonisztack 3752 he's in order of the day. I'll put it in. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision 3752, please vote. Please vote. [[17:04:57]] For 208 The decision is not made. And on demand, Michael Bondar. Colleagues, colleagues, come on, I'm asking you very much. Colleagues, please have everyone's attention. We have a bill under which there is unification. Let's go in there and take him in, colleagues. Come on, where we have a union and a hall. I mean, I am now considering draft Law 4809 amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of conditions for the international cooperation of aircraft construction and development entities. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:05:55]] For 184 And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u48	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Your attention is presented in the draft Law 4809 on International Cooperation and Development of Domestic Aircraft Construction. What is the essence of this law? The essence of this law is to lift the artificial administrative ban that exists today for state-owned enterprises, and they cannot create subsidiaries, including joint ventures with foreign partners. This makes it virtually impossible to cooperate with international partners and even to supply them with airplanes, since in a number of countries there is a requirement that part of the production should be located in the country where these aircraft are purchased. So we need to fix this network today, and it's about whether today Ukrainian aircraft construction is going to develop and whether we're going to be a system manufacturer, and whether our Antons are going to fly around the world in the sky, or whether they're going to be on shelves in museums. So today, this bill is a key law for the aviation industry, so that businesses can work, they can move into the production mode of the regime that they're in today. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy has considered this bill, and there is a proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be supported on the basis and in general with technical and legal work, with the simultaneous introduction of the following editorial changes. In section I of the bill in paragraph 1 in paragraph 2, paragraph 2 in paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 the words “match the criterion” defined in paragraph “in” in the words “belongs to the rule”. And also in section I, paragraph 2, of the bill to complete the position of the following content. In the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Planebuilding in Article 3 p.m. 1 words and figures in 2017 are replaced by words and figures in 2025. With these rights, my honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the bill as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights and dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the author of the Rosenblatt bill is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u50	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm sorry, colleagues, let me speak. Thank you very much, first of all, to the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for having the opportunity to consider this bill, which is now on the agenda and has been included in the agenda so that we not only develop our aviation sector today, but also support it in general. Unfortunately, today we cannot count on the support of the state in our aviation construction. So today, this bill proposes the creation of opportunities to create joint ventures for our potential buyers. You know, our manager, the CEO of our Antonov company, Mr. Gzdev is traveling around the world making contracts. But we don't have the capacity to make these planes. You remember that the main factories, they were located in the aggressor country, the Russian Federation. Today, we cannot afford to continue working with this country. So today we have preliminary orders from India, we have preliminary orders from Saudi Arabia, we have preliminary orders from other countries in Northern and Eastern Europe. But we have enough to build businesses in these countries. That's why the bill proposes to allow our state-owned enterprises to create joint ventures and, along with these customers, to build airplanes in other countries. So I can see that through such a bill we're going to give State support, we're going to give other commercial structures the opportunity to influence and develop our building industry, the aviation sector, and do everything we can to make Ukraine a developed aviation state. You know that few countries in the world have their own production, and Ukraine among them. So let's keep it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u51	Thank you, dear fellows. Two for, two for against, please. I'm asking you to calm down the people's deputies. Please, Sergey Kaplin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u52	We support, of course, any action and initiatives, particularly legislative ones, for the development of aviation. But I would like to take this opportunity to address you, Mr. Head. Today, a bill is extremely important for ordinary people to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on individual issues of restructuring of social insurance funds. This is the question that our Committee on Social Policy has been fighting over for six months. Paralyzing the work of two key institutions to ensure the realization of rights and opportunities for those in need of social assistance. Today there is corruption and we have finally found a common language with the unions, with other associations, and are ready to make a decision today under this law on order in this area. This law needs the poorest people, on. To those who will receive help from the State tomorrow. It optimizes, in fact, an overcrowded government car that consumes billions of dollars a year. And I ask you very much to support inclusion in the agenda and to consider this bill today, otherwise this situation will depend again on autumn. I just got off the phone with the Minister of Social Policy, and he's coming in today to consolidate the hall, protect this initiative, and together we're going to get a vote, a positive vote. And I know that most factions support the solution in this way. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry it's not a subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u53	Thank you. The word is "The People's Front" for Podobraznjak Vadim Ivanovich. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, go back to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u55	Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u56	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Society, in 2009, when I was a deputy head of the Space Agency, there was this first attempt to resuscitate the aviation sector. And the first suggestions were to join Avianto into Antonov, which is what was done. Unfortunately, all of our work with the banks to cancel the debt part, after the write-off of the penny, the fines, after the project department was set up in Ukreximbank, unfortunately, they were ignored and, in total, $400 million entered just as a contribution to the statutory capital of the Antonova LP. In total, more than a year ago, the state calculated these debts. I'm very pleased that, to date, even those initiatives come from Antonov, like this bill. And I urge our government not to limit itself to such administrative support, but to implement the Coalition Agreement, to create an export credit agency, to create a development bank, to actually support our high-tech sector. And I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the bill that we have with you, with the support of the South German (Mrs. Timoshenko's authorship), which should also be included and should be addressed. Because we're helping miners, I'm very respectful of mining, but unfortunately, we're not helping airmen, astronauts, or the industries that define our faces on the world's technological map. So, Your Honor, I urge you all to call your colleagues right now so they can come into the hall. I call on the head of the Antonov DP. Mr. Manager! Mr. Gozdev! Mr. Gozdev! Can't he hear it? Arthur! Arthur! Would you mind if we didn't distract him, Mr. Manager? Mr. Hzovdev! Thank you. Thank you for listening while we support you. I ask you to publish tomorrow a list of those who did not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u57	I'll give you time, but don't take breaks that long. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u58	I'm asking you to publish tomorrow in your team a list of people who voted in favour of the Antonov Bill, but it's in the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u59	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. In two minutes, the decision will be made. Please, colleagues, invite a colleague into the hall. Lechenko, one minute. After that, the decision was made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u60	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's a very good bill, with one big "but." You have to close some gaps in it so that the good idea doesn't end again with what always ends. The point is that it is necessary to limit the possibility of creating joint ventures only by nonresidents who have experience in the aviation sector and who have sufficient staffing and production capacity to carry out related projects related to aircraft production or equipment, aircraft service, aircraft supply and equipment, and so on. That is, restricting the circle of business entities with which joint ventures can be created and the purpose of creating such enterprises. Because if that is not the case, additional linings will be re-created in the supply chain. For example, creating a joint venture with an offshore company of any oligarch, which will parasiate on schemes that will, in turn, create a joint venture with a real airline. So all the revenue is going to be accumulated on the paper company, while the minimum costs are going to be paid to Ukrainian businesses and to these people who are working on Anton's in my district, in particular. That's why it's the right bill. But creating joint ventures can only be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u61	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u62	It can only be with the right companies that have experience in this particular field, not just any company, in fact. And I now urge the authors to accept this amendment in the first reading, because for the second reading, I'm sure it won't live.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u63	Thank you very much, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I don't see them. Colleagues, please. Colleagues, are they all in the hall? Are we ready to make a decision, colleagues? At the request of the committee head, let's vote. So I ask you to participate in the rating vote on this bill, 4809. Please take part in the vote. Please vote in 4809. Please vote. [[17:18:48]] For 232 That's good, colleagues. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of conditions for international cooperation of aircraft construction and development entities. — No. 4809. At the committee's suggestion, to take it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:19:38]] For 241 Decision taken. Hello, Mr. Director. But the committee here tells me that we have three bills, and there are two other bills that are adjacent that we have to look at in the block. It's 3457, draft law. The draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the support of the aviation sector) and 3458 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the support of the aviation sector. Complementary bills without which the bill does not work. Is there any understanding in the room that we should vote on them? Yes. Then, please, and I'm voting on the motion to review the reduced procedure first 3458. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the support of the aviation sector. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:20:53]] For 204 I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Berezenko Sergey Ivanovich. Out of place, yes, please. Berezenko Sergey Ivanovich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, we are also considering two important laws that go along with the previous 4809. And just by working together, three laws together, we can change the situation in the field in a major way. It's about Law 3457, which we predict changes before. amending Chapter XX "Transitional Regulations" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the support of the aviation sector). This is the law that continues until January 1, 2025, the exemption from the value added tax. The current standard was until 1 January 2016 in the current Ukrainian Tax Code and by 1 January 2025 we are exempt from corporate tax and by 1 January 2025 we are exempt from land tax. Such a standard was also in force until January 1, 2016. By accepting these changes, we'll be able to cost our planes in comparison to those aircraft that are now in use under operating ice-skating conditions, and we'll be able to develop our aviation industry and build airplanes that will be competitive. Thank you very much. The decision was clearly supported by the committee. And it's suggested that we support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to a report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of Mrs. Nina Jujanini. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I understand that the author or I was wrong, because we are considering Bill 3458, as Mr. Parubius, Head of the Supreme Council, said. Mrs. Irina, what kind of bill are we going to consider right now? Because he named 3,458, and the author declared 3457.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u67	We're looking at 3457 right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u68	8 – on board.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u69	3458.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u70	Then let the author give the concept of the bill first, and then I'll report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u71	Okay. Please turn on Mr. Berezenko's microphone again. I understand he just reported 3457. No, we can't do that. So then I ask the author not to confuse the session hall. So the author just presented Bill 3457. I'm asking you to put the number of bill 3457 on board. And I'd like to ask Mrs. Jujanina to report Bill 3457. And then we'll consider the next bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on April 20, 2016, reviewed the draft law. The bill is offered to aircraft construction entities that are subject to the rules in article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Industry by January 1, 2025, to pay taxes on added value, income tax and land taxes. In support of the whole purpose of the bill on the need for state support for airline industries through the provision of tax benefits to companies involved in the production of aircraft, members of the committee paid attention to the need, firstly, to give effect to the bill. Therefore, under the transcript, I ask that in section III, paragraph 1, of the bill, the words and figures "from 1 January 2016" be replaced by the words "from the first number of places to the next month of its publication." The text of the bill also needs a technical and legal amendment that changes the form of amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Added Cost Taxes, namely, for the transcript. I propose changes in taxes on the added cost not by introducing Section XX, Subsection 2 of Section "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code in a new edition, but by supplementing this subsection with a new paragraph 4 prime. 1 of the same content. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3457 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the comments made. In addition, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, thank you. You need to finish, 30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u74	I'm tasked with preparing the text of the law to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, taking into account technical legal rights. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u75	Thank you. Now, please, from the factions, sign up for a discussion, two for, two against, this bill. Thank you. I'd like to take you to the board. Please Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik of the Peter Dust Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u76	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Taxes on value added are taxed, not on the subject of farming, but on the product. How can one subject be allowed not to pay VAT but to pay the other? What are the investment conditions you can talk about in this case. And according to existing VAT collection technology, this creates advantages for imported goods. I will not speak if this law contravenes the Constitution, which provides that all subjects are equal before the law. There can be no different tax conditions. Because once again, the tax on added value is taxed on goods. And one cannot be allowed to buy with taxes, the other without taxes. I insist that it is impossible to vote this law in general, and I deny it, and against its vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the aviation sector, as well as the fact that some of the high-tech sectors that remain in our country are an inheritance from the Soviet Union. And as popular as it sounds here in the halls and walls, it's a statement, but it's a fact. That's what we got as an inheritance, that's what we didn't develop very much during our country's independence. As for Victor Mikhailovich's claim, with all due respect, yes, I understand that the creation of the benefits is wrong, is a violation of the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers and congregations, non-discrimination. But what I want to point out is that all the countries in the world, in order to determine their place in the world-wide distribution system, created benefits, unprecedented benefits, for domestic producers, especially when it comes to the high-tech sectors of the national economy. And so to talk about how to create appropriate tax benefits, income tax benefits, land tax benefits, VAT benefits, because of the operations that are used as inputs to customs territory of Ukraine for the equipment and equipment used for industrial production of aircraft, for the supply of finished manufactured aircraft, I don't think that this is a violation of the Constitution and the corresponding principle of equality. We need to create the most comfortable conditions for domestic aircraft companies to start this production and preserve the legacy of the Soviet Union that was given us by credit, because we still have scientific potential and to speak of Ukraine not only as an agrarian country but also as a country that produces the best aircraft in the country. So please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in three minutes there will be a vote, a decision. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And now I'm giving you a minute to speak to Mrs. Ostrich's self-help MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction, of course, supports the idea of state-owned support for airline industries, which were mainly directed by their production to the Russian Federation, and now they have to look for other markets and therefore their production should be competitive in the world markets. But we think that this very systemic and complex bill, which liberates these enterprises from both import VAT and releases, sets a zero wage on the production that is produced for the money of the state budget, and frees them from taxes on land, and exempts them from income taxes, can only be voted on the basis of us today, and in no way can it be voted on as a whole. Because these benefits have already been in place and we need to look at how effective these benefits have been in 2003, 2016 and how much the State budget of Ukraine is suffering from the loss of such tax benefits. And then compare these damages, and deliberately take the risk of such tax benefits. So please, we ask you all to support just on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Hirschfeld, please, one more minute. Hirschfeld. And Jujanina, one minute, okay! Hirschfeld, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u82	Thank you. What I want to draw attention to in this law is that there are other, softer ways of providing benefits that would not compromise the rest of the population. This is the payment of bills that can be paid for VAT, for example, for a year or two. And in general today, we need to look at this regime for all high-tech machinery, because this is the exact same problem in other industries: agriculture, furniture. We're starting to selectively rip out some pieces for the woodworking industry, for the airplane building -- it's very important. But we finally need to adopt a coordinate system, how we're going to support the machine building as a whole. I join the view that our group will support the second reading and that we will need to improve our second reading by extending the relevant provisions of this law to other sectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I'm going to give Yuzanini one minute, but I want to warn you that the longer we talk, the less likely we are to accept these bills. I'm asking you very much, my last speech, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Eugene, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make it clear to you that all the comments that have just been made, first of all, are spelled out in the text of the law correctly: the products that are produced by the listed enterprises are being released. "businesses," not "businesses." That's the first, that's the key point that's been made. Secondly, we're saying that products are being released, which are produced at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. So there will be no loss. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the committee's decision: on the basis and generally as a law. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that two groups have announced that they won't vote in general, and that's why it doesn't stand a chance. It just doesn't stand a chance. So I'm going to lay the groundwork so that this law can work. Colleagues. Well, you just did. I beg of you, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XX, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the support of the aviation sector) (3457). And first of all, let's take a look at how ready we are for this bill. Everyone in the hall supported him, there was a complete unification of the hall under that bill. I ask you to participate in the rating vote and I ask you to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:35:04]] For 216 I can see we didn't make it. The Radical Party, Halasyuk, Mr. Halasyuk, Mr. Galasyuk, you have so fervently urged me to vote on these laws. I put them to a vote, you don't vote. I don't know where you've gone wrong. 3457. These are airplane constructions, simplified conditions. Dear colleagues, I'm betting again on the ratings vote, I'm asking you to come in. My colleagues, I'm betting again on the 3457 vote. I ask you to participate in the rating vote. It'll be the basis, it'll be just the basis, it'll be just the basis. Now I'm just betting on the mobilization of the hall. Please 3457 please vote. The rating vote. Please. [[17:36:29]] For 229 And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the support of the aviation sector) (No.3457) as a basis, colleagues, on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, on the ground. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:37:04]] For 228 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Society, I learned math, and you learned math. Now you're gonna embarrass me, and you're gonna embarrass yourself. When a faction says no, the group says no, the voices from heaven will not be taken, colleagues. Don't embarrass me or yourself, please. Thank you. In factions, please include. Next bill, let's work dynamically. The next draft of the Law was adopted on the basis of its amendment to the Ukrainian Customs Code on Aviation Support (No. 3458). 3458, I request your support for its consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Review of the simplified procedure. Please. [[17:38:13]] For 175 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezenka Sergio Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, back to Law 3458, which adds 3,457, would like to say exactly in answer to those colleagues who said that it was not possible to take as a basis and as a whole, as requested by the previous committee. What's the problem today? How do airlines work? To this day, they do not pay VAT on airplanes arriving in Ukraine under operating leasing conditions. This puts our aircraft under uncompetitive conditions and makes our planes 20 percent more expensive. That was why it was important to vote on a previous law that did not require further changes in the budget or expenditure. But to date, we have to consider the possibility that new aircraft production is expanding exactly the nomenclature of composite products that need to be imported because they are not produced in Ukraine, and these are additional customs payments, as well as VAT, which are on the price of each detail, and every such overlay travels to the end of the production of one aircraft. Therefore, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on Aviation Support (3458) proposes temporarily until 1 January 2025 an increase in the number of goods imported by aircraft operators, i.e. the Antonov, without making the journey. The narrowing, and second, of the types of aircraft that can be temporarily imported, under conditions of complete exemption from customs duty by imposing restrictions on aircraft on the mass of an empty equipment of more than 10,000 kilograms, but not more than 30,000 kilograms, and the passenger capacity of between 50 and 100 places. This is going to separate our sector, our planes, which are releasing our state-owned Antonov and will make it possible to be competitive on a domestic plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u87	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, we're always talking about choosing and taking care of priority areas. But they didn't generally adopt a law that would allow our planes to be more competitive in the external market. And no spending budget would have borne. So please take a close look at your comments. It's about the bill. At his meeting, the committee pointed out that more detail was needed on the list of goods to be subject to foreign exchange tax. Attention was also drawn to the fact that the bill mentions UKTZED codes that are not in the current Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. In this regard, the product code list needs to be redesigned. Furthermore, the Ministry of Economic Development, in its expert opinion, believes that the bill requires substantial work and offers a number of suggestions and comments to the bill. In doing so, by supporting the cancellation of the benefits of the importation by Ukrainian airlines of foreign aircraft whose analogues are released in Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine also does not support the draft law as proposed and makes a number of observations. As a result of the consideration of the bill at the committee meeting, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted on a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, what is this law about? This law says that there are black firms and they are white. In one case, the same goods are allowed not to pay taxes; in another, they are allowed to pay taxes. I would like to emphasize once again that the tax is not set by entities of activity but by commodity positions. You can't create an environment when one pays and the other doesn't pay. We need to prove that this creates corruption because it creates unequal farming conditions. One is open, the other is not. If a commercial position is to be released, set it free for all operators. But there can be no selective approach. I deny that the law should be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u92	Thank you. Please give the floor to Long Oles Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u93	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, Long, "The Will of the People" faction. We are now, I would like to say not only about this particular bill, but also in general. We in which we emphasize, my friends, our economic independence of our state is as important today as maintaining the integrity of the territory. Yes, if there was no war, if most of our industrial potential were not historically oriented towards the Russian market that was lost today for all industrial potential, perhaps we could agree with our previous speakers. But, my friends, today we need to determine what strategy to support our domestic producer. The Canadian Prime Minister comes and says, "Here's Bombardier, our Canadian producer, support him, buy him." The American Embassy says, "Here are our American manufacturers, please support them." Friends, we should think that we have our Ukrainian producer, who, thank God, is still alive. But let's make sure that he's able to live until he's relocating from the lines set up for the Russian markets that were lost to European markets. And there are many of them. There's a Kharkiv bearing factory, for example, our colleague Anatolia Musiovich, who worked three shifts seven days a week because he worked for the Azomash, which is not available today, to a Russian market that is not available today, in Stakhanovsky, in the Krukov factory. And today we need to pay attention to it and support it, because its production in Europe is also needed, but it takes time for it to be adjusted. The same is true of our aircraft building, the same is true of other industrial giants who have preserved some intellectual and productive potential. Guys, this is our economy and our extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u94	Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u95	Vladimir Gusak, the Opposition Block. Today, in the Ukrainian industry, there is a great festival. Parliament finally decided to consider its problems. I would like to remind you that last year, industrial production in Ukraine dropped by 20 percent. This year, thanks to the so-called low-base effect, we had a slight increase in the first quarter, but in May, industrial production fell again compared to May 2015. In June, we had a very big problem with metallurgy because of the bad work of the Crucifixion and the lower prices in the world market. And Ukrainian metallurgy, unfortunately, is one of its biggest problems, very much dependent on exports, because there is no developed internal market. And that's why we, the Ukrainian Parliament, have to do everything we can to make our machine-building work, to make it work, to increase the production and consumption of metal in the country. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block understands that without industrial recovery, without economic growth, we will not be able to raise social standards in our country. I would like to point out that the last bill on support for domestic aviation was adopted only by our votes. We also support this bill, which will allow us to make life easier for our industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u96	Please, Taras Shepherd, the Self-Help faction is passing it on to Ostrecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! First, I'll take those remarks that were echoing under the previous bill. I quote from the text of the bill: "Temporaryly (until 1 January 2025), air-building entities are exempt from VAT payments." At a time when we all know that only transactions can be released from VAT. So this bill was written in a vague manner, and therefore it was voted only on a basis, otherwise it would not have worked as noted by colleague Pinzenik very rightly. Now, about the Customs Codex. If we think that we need to somehow stimulate the goods used for aircraft construction, then we need to not temporarily relieve the payment of the import duty, because the import duty on goods should be economically justified depending on the possibilities of domestic production and the purpose of establishing incentives for its development and export potential. Then we just have to put a zero bet and make this zero bet forever. Moreover, Council Regulation No 1186 of 16.11.2009, which establishes a system of cooperatives for the exemption from payment of duties, does not provide for exemption from taxation by customs duty of the specified category of goods. And these, colleagues, are our Euro-Integration Commitments under the Association Agreement. Also listed are UKTZED codes that are not in the current Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Moreover, there are codes that will never be used for aircraft construction. For example, steel bars for concrete reinforcements. Moreover, the government tells us that during the 2011-2014 period of preferential benefits, 1 billion dollars was spent on these preferences, and the planes did not begin to be fully built. So, colleagues, we think that this bill needs substantial work and we ask that it be sent to the authors for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u98	Thank you. So you don't support it on a base. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, prepare for a decision. Please invite everyone to the hall and take a seat, please. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Let's have a rating vote. Dear colleagues, please take part in the weighting vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the support of the 3458 aviation sector. Please vote, take part in the rating vote, please support. [[17:51:10]] For-189 189 votes. If it's one more time, will you support "self-help"? The authors, once again, have no other way out. Colleagues, I'm with your permission. I want you to hold political consultations right now, and I'm going to re-read it. If there are no votes, we won't be able to get them from anywhere. Ready? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal -- the draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the support of the aviation sector (3458), re-reading. Rereading the first reading, first rating, or this voice proposal, rereading the first reading. If you support this proposal, please vote. [[17:52:22]] For 219 This proposal has a chance to pass. Dear colleagues, I see not all of them. Come on in. Please, I'll give you a microphone now, Mr. Arthur, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. One minute, Arthur Gerasimov, and we'll go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Or don't! Are you ready, colleagues? Please come into the hall and support me. Is everyone in the room? I'm making a proposal that's been compromised by all the factions. We're missing literally a few votes. The draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the support of the aviation sector (number 3458) is proposed to be re-readed for the first time. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 3458, read again. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[17:53:34]] For 233 Decision taken. Now I ask the committee for quality attention. Dear colleagues, I'm going to give you a message. The minister of the Cabinet of Ministers has come here, who has been asking the question for several weeks, which is now in the order of the day, this is 4831 – a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine on individual issues of the restructuring of social insurance funds and their state registration. Two weeks ago, there was just a blocked cabinet and a ministry protesting the requirements of that law, and then we almost accepted it. Now he's next to put in the agenda for making decisions, colleagues. If there are voices, I'll continue the session for 15 minutes, and we'll look at it. If there are voices. There will be no votes, Mr. Minister, we can't do anything about it. I'm asking the Minister to speak. And I ask everyone to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u99	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The bill that I'm asking you to support is designed by the People's Deputies of Dennis. It refers to the management of social insurance funds, where very bad things are being done today. And if we don't take immediate action, we won't take action, it might happen that when we get out of vacation, we're going to have nothing to control: government funds will just go to the left. And that's why I'm asking you to put this bill into the agenda and accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u100	Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute. Although this is not a discussion, Mr. Victor. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u101	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I don't want to discuss it. I want to support the minister. Two years ago, we merged the funds, and legally, we failed to legislate, and as a result, the funds continue to exist, and it is impossible and impossible to create one united. And as a result, these structures turned out to be out of control. This is a simple law, but very important, I would ask my colleagues to support the inclusion of this law and to vote on it. It's quite simple, but it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-14-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, everyone backs up. Everyone agrees with the importance of this bill. Only by agreeing to come out of the hall. I ask you to return to your seats and take part in the vote. Please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration (4831 and 4831-1). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Colleagues, please, MPs, please support. Please vote, please support. [[17:57:00]] For 205 Colleagues, would you point me out that I should persuade the deputies to vote, or the faction that they belong to? And if your law had been voted out, Mr. Alexander, if five deputies had come out, would that have been correct? Right, Mr. Alexander? I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'll do it again, but this will be the last time. If there are no votes, there's nothing else I can do. Dear colleagues, I'm re-composing, secondly, as by all laws, to include in the agenda decisions 4831 and 4831-1. On amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:58:19]] For 208 It's not a decision you make, dear fellows. I will not exercise my right to continue the session. At this, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We had a fruitful and hard day, and we made many important decisions. Thank you to all the national deputies who were responsible for the session. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the session room to resume our work. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow.
