ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for work. Please. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of our work. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues ready for work? Please prepare for registration. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Please. [[16:06:39]] There were 329 deputies for the evening session. And so I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we're continuing to discuss the agenda. I was approached by journalists, and they insist on 1630. This is actually our next bill (second reading), which is the draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of the professional activities of journalists) (1630). And I invite Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk from the committee to announce a report on this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on September 2, 2015, reviewed a comparative table prepared for second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) (registration No. 1630). First of all, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted this bill as the basis for June 16, 2015. The bill from the legal entities of the legislative initiative received 10 amendments. All amendments relate to the amendment to article 171 of the Criminal Code. These amendments are considered by the committee in full, one in partial and six in negative terms. Partly included is amendment No. 1 of the Ukrainian National MP Ptašnik, which provides for the refusal of the notion of "intervention of legal professional activity of journalists" and is only used in the title of the article as a condition for all forms of interference with legal professional activity of journalists. The amendments listed in 7, 8, 9 refer to the footnotes to article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which must be removed from the body of the bill. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act of 14 May 2015 (421), amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen the guarantees of legitimate professional activity of journalists. As supplemented by Ukraine's Criminal Code with a new article 354 with badge 1, with a corresponding footnote which already gives an identical recognition of the "professional activity of journalists" in articles 171, 345 and 1, 347, 348-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Amendment No. 1, Amendment No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 was rejected because they violated the bill’s structure and did not conform to its concept. In addition, the amendment of the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenka undermines the established general criminal law ban on the persecution of journalists in connection with their professional activities and may lead to significant difficulties in setting up content, signs of obstacles to the legitimate professional activities of journalists. Corrections by the national deputies of the Ukraine of Melniczuk, Dmitrenka, Lensky are combined with objective signs of part one and part two of article 171 of the Criminal Code, which inevitably narrows the objective side of the crime scene. A comparative table in front of you. The reasons for rejecting the amendments are given here. I'd like to go to the repairs. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill that provides legislative opportunities to protect the professional activities of journalists. It is important to all our fellow journalists and to those who have become deputies and to those who work in the field today, bearing the word of the truth. The discussion will be brief. I'm asking you to call everyone in the hall while we go to the repairs. Dear colleagues, the authors of the amendments, please prepare for the discussion. So the 1st Amendment, the Birdsman. Come on, you turn on the microphone, and you'll say so, because I can't hear what you're saying. 1 amendment, Deputy Birdman, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the members of the profile committee for taking my amendment into account, although in part, but it actually improves the drafting of the Criminal Code, the proposed article, and it will allow for the protection of journalistic activity. At the same time, I would like to point out that my amendment proposed the introduction of criminal responsibility for censorship. That is, it is not the legal requirement and intervention of journalists on the part of owners, founders, and media leaders. I think it's an extremely criminal responsibility for censorship, it's extremely important, and it's actually going to make it possible to develop free journalism in the country. At the same time, MPs decided to reject the amendment in this section because it indicated that it needed to be regulated by a separate bill. That's why I'm talking to the profile members right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u5	I'll let you continue now, but you make your proposal to the hall. Please, Bird, give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u6	That's why I'm not going to put the amendment on confirmation. But at the same time, I would like to ask MPs, members of the Law Enforcement Committee, to make appropriate proposals in the form of a bill and to address, as you have decided, the issue of criminal responsibility for censorship at the level of a separate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u7	Thank you. So you don't insist on voting, hopefully the committee heard your principle position and we're moving on to the next amendment. Amendment number two, People's Deputy Yatzenko. Does he insist? No, it doesn't. 3rd Amendment, Melniczuk. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 4th, Dmitri. Don't insist. 5th, Dmitri. Don't insist. 6th, Dmitri, don't insist. 10th, Melniczuk, does he insist? No, Melniczuk doesn't insist. Thus, most of the amendments tabled by the Ukrainian people's deputies were supported by the committee, and for that reason a political consensus was found, in fact, on this important, once again, bill for the protection of journalists' rights. And so I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that a vote is about to take place. And the heads of factions I also ask to invite MPs into the hall, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put up a vote, please prepare for the vote. Take up jobs. So I am voting for a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine – Yeshchenko, Ukraine is calling for a vote – to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists (number 1630). I hope it is supported by all, regardless of factions and political positions, this is our common and shared responsibility. And I propose, please vote 1630, please vote, please vote. 1630, please support, we vote. [[16:16:11]] For 181 Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep coming in, call the deputies into the hall. And with your permission, colleagues, we'll discuss the next one, and then we'll vote this one, and the next one, if there's no objection, because part of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u8	Who says no?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u9	These are the ones who care about the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are the ones who have carried out the Rules, who voted by hand on January 16th, which were the supporters of the Rules. Thank you. Let's just say Olya Cervakov, one minute, please. Olya Chervakov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, for more than 10 years, criminal article 171 exists in the Criminal Code for obstructing the activities of journalists. But almost no one who attacked and hindered journalists was held accountable. It's basically a technical law that makes formulations so that judges can't manipulate the courts or refuse journalists who are being attacked by those who don't want society to know the truth. I very much ask you to mobilize and vote for this bill, it's very important, it's a requirement of the Council of Europe, it's, in the end, our face with you. And all those who are yelling now are giving interviews to journalists, and they want to be screened on television. Yes, please vote to ensure that the rights of these journalists are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Colleagues, let's re-vote. I see MPs coming along, they're getting pretty intense, they're getting together, they're ready to work, they're making decisions. After the beep, I'm going to ask you to include a sign and an ad, which factions gave you how many votes to see who's protecting their professional activities and who's speaking out against them. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. Guys, let's go in. Once again, the Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. And I ask the factions to call MPs into the hall, heads of factions to mobilize a special warehouse to make decisions. And I'm betting again. The company, the jobs, please take over. Once again, I place a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) (number 1630) on the second reading and in general. Signal vote. Pay attention! Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please! [[16:19:41]] For-200 We are close to making decisions. I see we haven't made it. Okay, they didn't make it. But invite more of your colleagues to the faction in the hall, somehow call them, and invite them to the hall. Colleagues, so I'm with the consent of the hall. Well, I see we haven't made it, I see we haven't made it. Come in, take up jobs. And I'm going to ask the board to explain the result of the vote, and I'm going to read it. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 89, "National Front" – 51, "Occupy Block" – 2, "self-help" – 16, "Rebirth" – 5, "Radical Party of Oleg Láska" – 7, "Will of the People" – 4, "Fathership" – 4, and "non-fractional" – 20. Colleagues, please support the bill. So, everyone who hasn't made it has already taken up their jobs? As long as the MPs meet, I give the floor to Sergio Leschenko. Please turn on the microphone to someone else. Just turn it on for a minute. And I ask the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Sergey Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u12	I'm going to the Opposition Block. You don't vote like that right now, even though you own TV channels. Remember the story of how in Janukovitch's time a journalist from the "Inter" channel came to the town of Brovary to film a story about how our colleague Paul Rizanenko reflected on the aunts of Azarov, from the "masseurs" of Azarov, how they tried to hold an unworthy candidate in Barovara, and how the journalist of the channel "Inter" there was beaten, as there was then a conflict, and how there was no punishment. So even if you don't support Ukrainian independent journalists, support at least those journalists working on your television channels, because there's no guarantee that you're in a secure environment today, and in a few years, anything can happen, and your journalists will also need protection. So support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u13	Thank you. I have one question. Doesn't Sergey Lechchenko mind if I put it back on alert. Won't it be indignant that I've put so many times on the alert? You don't mind, all right? Thank you. Please, Jemec, one more minute. One minute, Yemeni, turn on the microphone. And we vote. Please come into the hall. Jemec, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u14	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear fellow national MPs! I want to explain to you how the Ukrainian people are looking at this vote today. Every MP who does not vote in favour of this law today is in favour of preserving the country’s secret corruption schemes. You do realize that today, corruption is being fought in our country by society. Every journalist who exposes corruption today must be protected in his right to explain the truth. Therefore, colleagues, you need to understand that your surnames today are under the care of society. Don't take the fall, don't cover the corrupts, support the journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u15	Yeah, it's the last performance. 30 seconds, Rizanenko and all, and we vote. Rizanenko. And we vote. Please come to the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u16	Good afternoon! People's Deputy Rizanenko. I take advantage of my right to reply. I want to give you real examples of life that happened, as my colleague mentioned. In the city of Brovary. In 2012, during the elections, the head of the Reich administration lowered his head down the stairs of the journalist's "Inter" channel, which was then also overpowered, I apologize, Roman Bocalou. A criminal investigation has been opened, and what do you think happened to this RDA deputy? He was promoted to the head of another RDA. Also during the month, in the presence of former Prime Minister Azarov, three journalists were beaten by aunts, standing 5 meters away from them, covered by law enforcement. This should not be repeated in any government or council, so this bill is very important for adoption. I urge everyone to take responsibility for himself and to accept him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I feel like there's enough mobilization already in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, don't yell, I told you not to yell. This is the third time I've told you, I'm going to give you my word, and you're going to be looking at the gallery. Please, colleagues, I said. microphone, I give you my word. My colleagues, this is the last performance. I've already given two men from Peter Dustenk's Block, Mustafa. We've already concluded the discussion, the last word for opposition, in the trend of our democratic traditions of work. And we vote. That's why I'm asking you to come into the hall. Now turn on the microphone of the MEP, please, for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, you are more likely to look at yourself in the mirror, especially in the morning. Notice, you have a 300-person coalition and only 200 votes. You can't take care of yourself. You're on top of us. That's the first one. And the second. Note that journalists now have protection under the Penal Code. Moreover, they want to be texted, their correspondence is not available to anyone, including the law enforcement authorities. What's the reason? They love power so much now, to everyone, without exception, that they are afraid of saying too many words. But our correspondence, our texts are not protected at all, and they are happy to be photographed from the balcony. There's got to be some kind of protection. Or are they white and we're black?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Comrades, I ask you to prepare for the signal vote. You control the key channels, and you tell us who loves power and who doesn't love power. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) (number 1630), vote in a signal, colleagues. Please vote. Signal vote. [[16:26:19]] For 211 Colleagues, a large number of deputies came. Colleagues, I ask you once again to take up jobs. Do not leave the hall, but go into the hall. Colleagues, mobilize. I'm re-voting, 1630, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) on the second reading and in general. Signal vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:27:24]] For 218. Colleagues, mobilize. Now let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take up jobs. A number of deputies simply don't vote because they're not in their jobs. Please take up jobs, colleagues. Is everyone ready to vote? I'll bet again. Society! If I don't get the signal vote now, I'll put it off. I ask all deputies to prepare for the vote. I ask you not to make noise, to concentrate, to take a responsible approach to making decisions. And I'm re-voting 1630: the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of the professional activities of journalists). Signal vote. Please vote, support. [[16:29:08]] For 217 [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not the fourth, it's the seventh time. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We'll wait for the deputies to arrive. We next have a draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market (number 3074). The report invites a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Chicken Maksim Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u20	Mr. Chairman, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to draw your attention and ask you to focus on discussing this very important law. I would like to remind you that the purpose of this Law under the heading 3074: to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market is to remove obstacles to natural gas substitution operations (bekhol) in external economic activities by amending the Customs Code of Ukraine accordingly. And I would also like to remind you, dear colleagues, that the bill is derived from the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which took effect on October 1st, 2015. Everyone remembers that this is a long - awaited law that regulates purchases in this most complex area. Also in the development of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, on November 24, 2015, the Law on the introduction into the Ukrainian Tax Code of the creation of a precondition for the new model of the natural gas market was adopted. But to this day these two very important laws cannot fully act, and as far as we and the whole country are concerned, the entire economy of the state is waiting for the adoption of this draft law under the heading 3074. In the preparation of the bill, five proposals were made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. Two of these 5 proposals are included, one is included in part, and two are rejected. The committee at its meeting on December 9, 2015, reviewed the bill under number 3074 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's drafting of the second reading of the bill and to vote because it is expected and today's successful vote will depend on or will be fully operational in the Law on the New Model of the Natural Gas Market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a number of amendments have been made to this bill. I will read the amendments that have been rejected. The two amendments of the Levchenk People’s Deputy were rejected. Does he insist? He insists. Turn on the microphone, Yuri Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u22	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District of Kiev. To ensure Ukraine's energy stability and security, it is necessary to provide for the ability to manage Ukraine's gas transport system only by enterprises, corporate rights in which the Ukrainian State is 100%. You can't even give the slightest hints and opportunities to de facto privatize Ukraine's gas transport system. As they say, once again I emphasize that there are no manipulations, de facto, because, yes, you're passing on to a long-term lease and so on. But this is going to be de facto privatization. The bill is inextricably linked to another bill, which unfortunately tried to push a few. In December last year, even though it had already been rejected, it was again pushed, in which, in fact, the bill established the privatization of the gas transport system. So I'm asking now, please, in this project, which clearly has a lot of positive standards, but in this project, I want you to write my bill that only state companies can be operators.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u23	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u24	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, honourable deputies! I want to say that, indeed, an interesting amendment from our colleague, Mr. Jury Lewchenk, and she probably had the right to exist. So this right suggests defining the terms "shippers and gas transport operators and gas shelter operators." But what I want to say is these arguments that the committee was guided by when I rejected this interesting amendment. So the legal principles for the functioning of the natural gas market in Ukraine are defined by the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, as I mentioned. Article 1 of this Act defines terms, including the term “gas shelter operator” and “gas transport system operator”. Ukraine’s Customs Code regulates customs, customs, and customs relations. Complementing the Customs Code with the definition of the concept of "gas shelter operator" and "gas transport system operator".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u25	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u26	goes beyond the legal regulation of the Customs Code itself and accordingly does not comply with the principles of drafting legislative acts. Furthermore, the proposed definitions are not consistent with their definitions, which we gave to you in the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which imposes coalitions in applying the provisions of these acts. So by supporting this amendment by national deputy Yuri Lewchenk, it will mean that the law will not work at all. So these arguments were guided by our profile committee when I rejected this amendment, and I'm also asking the hall now, unfortunately, but still to reject the ruling of the national deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u27	Thank you. But Yuri Lewchenko insists on voting, right? So I'm voting on amendment 2 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. You heard the committee's position. Whoever supports the amendment of Lechchenk, please vote. Please vote on who supports the amendment of Lechchenk. [[16:36:29]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Lensky’s 5th amendment was also rejected. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. So all the other amendments have been taken into account, we can put the bill to the vote. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall, and while the deputies are entering the hall, one more minute for a member of the Committee of Chicken Maxim Pavlovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your attention and I hope that the vote will now be really effective. And in addition, Mr. Chairman, after this vote, I ask that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, deal with the text of the legislation adopted before the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote for a decision. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. So I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create a precondition for the new model of the natural gas market. So there's a 3074 vote. Please vote, please support. Please vote, signal vote. [[16:38:37]] For 168 Please very much ask the BP faction to give Victor Pinzenic a minute to explain the bill. In the meantime, please come into the hall. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Thank you for rejecting the Rules, an extremely important law, the government wrongly called it. It should have been called "Hello Gazprom" of the Russian Federation. What are we talking about? I want to go back a little bit. We used to buy gas in Turkmenistan. In fact, we never bought it. There was a substitution: we were supplied with Russian gas, and Turkmen gas was supplied to nearby areas of the Russian Federation. This was the case with Turkmenistan’s gas. When it comes to Ukraine, however, they always wave their fingers. And there are problems in Ukraine: we're shipping Russian gas to export, and at the same time we're getting reverse gas. What if it is possible not to move the gas physically, but to do so? But to do so, we need to make changes to the Customs Codex. It's about replacing the gas that's coming from the East, the gas that's coming from Europe, where you don't have to physically move the gas. This is very convenient for Ukraine to make decisions. And I'm asking you to support this decision. Ukraine will be able not to make physical reverses from Europe, but rather to replace the gas that is exported. I ask everyone to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Sergey Sobolev, one minute. And that's where we end up with no more performances. Sergey Sobolev and we vote. Please. All right, and Minister. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, logic is perfectly clear, but logic must work in every way. We support in this part what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said. But there's a second part of that logic. If we're going to fight for a reverse gas that we don't have to chase back to Europe and then go back to Ukraine, we should have been in this law a long time ago, as proposed by dozens of amendments, to establish that the gas of our own production is going to the population of Ukraine, dot. So our request: if this is voted in, it was agreed with the minister of profile, we've talked about it dozens of times. Because someone wants a gas that's worth 20 dollars to sell 200 dollars, and before they sell 400, they won't. In this connection, we vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. We've been told this a decade ago that this has nothing to do with it, and the population is still taking gas, which is 50 over 300, that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, Minister Demchishin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to note that these are technical changes to the Customs Code. It's only about the reverse delivery procedure, which. That is, we simplify the procedure and allow more supplies from Hungary, Poland, Slovakia. In this regard, given that a signed agreement with the Hungarian-Hungarian gas transport system operator is already signed in May, we have the opportunity to conclude such agreements and thus form them. It's not about politics at all, it's not about economics, it's about design technology. Please support this bill and, well, all other political statements, well, they have nothing to do with the Customs Code, this is the Customs Code, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u35	Thank you. And there's no word from the factions, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u36	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u37	Victor, what he's saying is, the performances are starting, the process is uncontrollable. Yes. Okay, let's talk, let's exchange thoughts from factions. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Minister of Energy says there is no policy here. Gas is a big policy because for 24 years they've been sitting on a gas pipe, making billions of dollars in oligarches, and paying for this government corruption, because it's the government that's been doing this corruption, and they're still doing it today, and they're paying for this powerful corruption of Ukrainian citizens: because of the high tariffs, because of the utility of the utility, because you're getting money out of their pockets. That's why gas is politics, and the fight against corruption is just like politics. And if we want an honest, transparent gas market, a coal market, an energy market, we need to start fighting corruption from the Minister of Energy of Demchisin. Yesterday, the minister of economics said there was corruption. Let's talk about the corruption of the Demchino. A billion dollars for Russian coal was paid last year. It's corruption, it's abuse, and it's responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I'm re-voting. Everyone, please come into the hall. Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market (3074). Signal vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:44:54]] For 212 We didn't make it. Please come into the hall. And please contact not the Presidency, but your colleagues by faction, to enter the Hall. We're not wizards, we won't make voices. You call your colleagues by faction to be in the hall. As long as the MPs come in, the Tax and Customs Committee, Chicken Maksim Pavlovich. One minute. Please come into the hall. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the consistent position of the Fatherland faction, the consistent position of the Radical Party faction of Oleg Lalashka, is indeed worthy of respect, because it has always been, and it all emphasizes. But, indeed, in this law, when voting on this law, you cannot change what cannot be mixed. The question is about getting rid of Russia's Gazprom. The issue is the possibility of a simplified reverse gas procedure from the European Union, which is now essential to our state in order not to have one. slave cabal conditions from Russia, like 24 years in a row. So that's why I call on all the MPs, let the question of energy independence unite this gas. It's a matter of national security, it's a question of Ukraine's independence. Thank you for your attention. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u41	Thank you. Everyone please take up their jobs. I'm re-voting 3074 of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. Vote alert, please. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[16:47:06]] For 210 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, "Fatherland" says if they're corrected. Ask the committee representative. No, it's impossible, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Victor Pinzenik. Society, let's find a compromise, it's an important bill, we'll find a way to unite the hall. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! I would very much like not to try through. It's a good law to pin a different kind of hotel. Once again, this law opens the road to Ukraine to a complete refusal to supply the gas from the North. Because we have the ability to substitute the gas, technically count one gas at the expense of the gas reverse, get a reverse gas without physical displacement. Figure out what kind of economy this is going to give you in transit. This costs the cost of gas supplies. Colleagues, I ask you not to stick to this law standards that have no relation to it. And all who advocate for Ukraine's energy independence must vote in favour of this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u43	Please, Sobolev Sergei, then Easy. Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u44	Sobolje, Fatherland. You've seen the Fatherland faction go to vote. But we insist that we have a clear record, we don't care what form this is going to be, that the gas of our own production is going to be for the needs of the population. Period. And stop playing these games. We've had enough to keep this key vote off. We understand which of the oligarchs you are protecting in this way when you allow them to export Ukrainian gas that they get for nothing. That is why our proposal is one. In what form this is going to be done, but there should be a clear record that the gas of its own production is going for the needs of the population of Ukraine, and we vote for it the way we did it the previous time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u45	Please, Easy and let's get to the vote. Easy, one minute, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction supports, we have similar requirements, domestic gas has to go to the needs of housing and utilities, which will allow us to reduce the cost of housing and utilities. But at the same time, I appeal to all MPs to hear what Honorary colleague Victor Pinzenik says. This law will allow Ukraine’s dependence on Russian gas to be removed. This is the dream of millions of Ukrainians for many years. We have to pass this law with you, so the Radical Party faction is voting for this law. The issue of the country's energy security is a key issue in Ukraine's future. Corruptionrs come and go as Demchisin and others, and Ukraine above all, the country's energy security is above all, Ukraine's national interests above all. And if we have a historic opportunity today to get rid of the Russian drug needle, if we have the opportunity to jump out of it, we have to do it immediately without changing into secondary issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, once again, a signal vote. I'm asking you to support an important bill. We've heard all the thoughts, all the arguments and the key position on the country's energy security. Prepared to vote. They took up jobs. And once again, 3074, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. Signal voting in second reading and in general. Colleagues, we vote. We're backing it up. [[16:51:56]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u48	Well, that's a different matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u49	The discussion resulted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u50	Let's do the whole thing, and then I'll do the factions. Let's vote, colleagues. Please don't leave, we vote in general. 3074, we vote. Technical law. Vote. [[16:52:21]] For 241 The decision has been made. I want the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 107, People's Front – 57, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 9, supported, thanks and non-fractional – 24. The fight against corruption is over with the adoption of the law. Thank you all. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u51	Colleagues, look, the hall's been mobilized. 1630, let's try the alarm again. Protecting journalists and their professional activities Ready, colleagues? We're going into the hall, we're going to support the journalists, we're going to demonstrate the democracy of our Supreme Council of Ukraine. I once again put the bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code (to improve the protection of the professional activities of journalists) to a signal vote (1630). Please vote, please support. Signal vote, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u52	Colleagues, let's support the journalists. [[16:53:38]] For 216 It's a different matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u53	We didn't make it. A few people didn't make it. They run, they run, they go into the hall. Colleagues, call your colleagues into the hall from the towers, for a meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. I ask all factions to support this bill. Colleagues we had an active discussion, no one had any objections. Don't leave the hall, my friends. Are you guys ready? Please prepare for the vote. Once again, 1630: Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) is a signal vote in second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues, we support. [[16:54:58]] For the 220. A few more Democrats are missing in the hall. Vlasenko didn't make it. Who hasn't got it yet? Come in, call a colleague. Please prepare, colleagues. A few people didn't make it. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, ask who's next to you to come into the hall. I'm re-voting, please be careful, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (1630). Are you guys ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, 220 votes in a signal vote. Let's support the journalists. 1630, we don't have six votes right now to adopt this whole bill. According to the regulations, we have to get 226. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. All right, colleagues, please take our seats, prepare for the vote. The 1630 signal vote. Let's support the journalists. Ready? Let's hear it. Now, a minute, a minute, a minute. The author of the bill went beyond the halls. Colleagues, we vote 1,630 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Vote, signal 1630. Come on, calm down. Vote. Let's back up, colleagues, please. [[16:57:31]] For 223 On the other hand, it's 223. For the sake of journalists, I am ready to put the matter to the vote again. Work, two. Let's vote again. Just calm down. All of it. All right, colleagues, let's do it again. Let's vote again and support the journalists. 1630 on the basis and in general the signal vote. Ready? All right, let's vote 1630. Vote. [[16:58:30.]] For the 220. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, pay attention! We have a decree to hold parliamentary hearings, which was scheduled for March 2nd, which is a parliamentary hearing order. We, since we're going to have a Ukrainian week in Brussels, we need to change March 2 to March 23. This committee of the Palace calls out, "The Challenges of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power." And I would just like to make this technical regulation so that we can hold parliamentary hearings. Can we take this proposal with a change of date? Technical regulation: March 2nd, because we have "Ukrainian Week in Brussels" on the 23rd. Is it accepted? Please let's all support -- it's the development of physical culture and sports, parliamentary hearings, change of date. The change in parliamentary hearings. Please be supportive. It's at the offer of a profile committee. Please support the change of date. [[17:00:06]] For 245 Yes. So let's vote again, 1630 journalists. Yeah? Whatever you say. Let's say that the journalists, we support, 1630, on the basis and in general, the signal vote. Please be supportive. Let's support it. [[17:00:35]] For 224 Don't lean. People's Front? Please. Calm down, it's loud, it's loud. Come on, take your seats, there's 224, there's already voices. What's the matter? Let's move on, okay. Yuri Lucenko a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u55	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I would now like to address the entire room, but especially the two groups and one faction that do not add votes to the vote to protect journalists. Dear friends, Europe and the future European Ukraine begin with freedom of speech, and in this country several dozen journalists have paid for our right to be here with their lives. I very much ask, personally my friend Razwadowski, personally Zhenya Ribczynski, personally the Rebirth Group, all those who are now in this room, to vote in favour, because that is what conscience commands. And another request to the Opposition Block, I don't want any politics right now, I'm talking about human relations. We're all human beings, and we all know we read and learn from journalists that they don't like it, but without it, we'll stop being politicians. Please vote for this law, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u56	And on this note, I have no choice but to re-establish Law 1630 to protect journalists. Support, please give me a signal vote, 1630. The best word is work. The best word is work. Let's support the signal vote, 1630. It's a better word than that. Let's support the signal vote. [[17:03:38]] For 223 The result is almost the same. Look, I'll put it to a vote again, but I have a request, the only thing I see is, let's just calm down and not turn it into a discussion club there. Opposition Block, one minute. "Responsible. No, you just don't use the word "give" -- you said it, but at the end you said it wrong. Please don't do that again. Thank you. And who, you two. Please. Debenkov, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u57	Thank you very much, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! I would like to explain the position of our political power. It's that, first of all, you're a coalition majority, you're looking at all the bills, and our bills are not being considered in this plenary room at all. This is about freedom of speech and about meeting the legitimate requirements of opposition in particular. And as for the protection of journalists, once again, I find that, first of all, the appropriate crimes that are predicted to hinder the legitimate activity of journalists are already there. It's actually a technical legal detail that doesn't really change the situation. And so, speaking of not voting for the bill in question being in violation of any journalist's rights, it's just a cheap pyar. And you don't have to turn to opposition when you have a coalition. Vote and go to work, and vote on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u58	All right, colleagues, let's do it again. I'll name everyone by the factions who support it. But I don't want to call your national MP's name, but today her law was one of the first, and we've been looking at it, too. As a coauthor, she reported from this rostrum to the extent that my memory does not fail. Dear colleagues, let's re-vote 1630. I'm just asking you to take all your seats. Olga. No, 1630. Please take your seats. It's about protecting journalists, I think it's without politics, without political colors, let's all support it. The journalistic environment expects us to do so. I understand that all MPs are very persistent and force me to vote several times, but I do it with pleasure, without disgust. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's give 1630 as a whole, on the basis and in general, a signal vote. Do you vote there? Please vote in general, we vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:06:50]] For 230 Thank you. On the basis and in general we vote, please support. We vote on the basis and in general, please support, vote. In the second reading and in general, yes, in the second reading and in general. [[17:07:08]] For 240 Law approved, 240. The military and civilian administrations, 3177-d, reported to our colleague Arthur Gerasimov. We postponed the vote before the break, please, everyone, please concentrate. Can you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, this law has already been considered in the morning. There were some questions with representatives of the Fatherland faction and with representatives of other factions. We agreed on a break, and we are now voting. The law is fully worked out, aligned with all factions of the coalition, and I would very much ask you to support this law as a whole today in the second reading, because it is really very much needed today by our administrations working in the area of anti-terrorist operations. And I want to emphasize that this law is needed this very week, because in a few days we may have a legal collapse in terms of military-civil administrations. So I ask again to support him in his second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u60	Colleagues, please take your seats, distinguished fellow national MPs. Please give me a signal vote, 3177-d. Please support 3377-d. In general. Vote. Let's vote, let's support. It's an emergency, please support. [[17:08:58]] For 229 Please, in general. 229, we've got it. Please, we all vote. We're not leaving, fellows! 3177 B.C.E. Vote! It was a signal. I ask you all to support us. We vote. Vote, fellows! Vote! [[17:09:22]] For 236 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Environmental Tax Next? [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Bill 3154 is submitted to your consideration: draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice. Head of the committee. It's a second reading. The head of the Knyazevich Committee, please. 3154.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll just remind you, fellow officers, at the morning meeting, we were unable to make a decision and, at the chairman's suggestion, we moved for a vote at the evening session. So once again, I reaffirm the agreement that we reached earlier in the hall. Please support the bill and accept it as a whole as part of the comparative table prepared by the committee. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, 3154, Ruslan Petrovich reminded me, this is the second reading, you're his. We passed it with you, now we have to testify by second reading and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please take your seats. 3154. Signal vote, please stand by. Please be supportive. Please vote 3,154 in second reading and in general. Vote. Signal vote, please stand by. [[17:11:47]] For 218. Dear colleagues, to make. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. Please take your seats. Dear fellow national MPs, all factions are literally voting, but you need your mobilization. Please. One more time, 3154. 3154, second reading and in general. Signal vote, please stand by. Vote. Please support everyone. Please vote. [[17:12:30.]] For 226 Colleagues, 226. And it is very important that we all now vote on who supports this bill. May I put it to the vote? 3154. Please support everyone. An extremely responsible position. Vote? Come on. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues, 3154. In the second reading and in general. Vote. Vote. Let's support it. [[17:13:06]] For 231 The law's been passed. Thank you. Next, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u63	The next day we have Bill 3778. Dear colleagues, this is the first reading and we need to mobilize ourselves for a reduced procedure. Who supports the summary procedure 3778, please vote, please support the colleagues. Review of the reduced procedure, please vote, vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u64	Short-term procedure, please support. [[17:13:59]] For 148 Fellows, once again, pay attention. Proposal: Under the reduced procedure, consider Law 3778 and Law 3778-1. Please let's support the author's proposal for a reduction of 2 laws. Vote, please support, please support. [[17:14:31]] For 133 My colleagues, once again, at the author's suggestion, I'm proposing a reduced procedure for considering these two laws. 3778, 3778-1 on the distribution of environmental taxes, Matthew the National MP and Neda Oleg, we vote, we vote, we vote, colleagues. It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:15:22]] For-146 Colleagues! All right, guys, let's do it again. Calm down. This is about a reduced procedure. Now let's look at these bills and get to the judges' release. Colleagues, do you want an hour more than an hour to consider these two laws for two articles, to consider? Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure for considering these two laws. Any idea what we're voting for? Please support me. Let's go to the judges. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Short-term review procedure. [[17:16:27]] For-151 The decision has been made. And do you know that the next one is the release of the judges? Road fund and the release of judges. Please, Anatoly Matvienko, cut. 3778, draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to begin by apologizing for this bill. He is not an example of a better legislative practice, but, unfortunately, our Parliament has already allowed this to happen by making decisions on specific areas of customs and road construction, the Horn of Curve. And I want you to understand that this bill is not motivated by a desire to show, but you have to suggest that you consider this bill. What does this have to do with anything? This is related to what we have really decided with you, and the budget committee that I represent has supported the initiators, the drafters of the bill, that the environmental tax should be on a special fund, not on a general basis. And they supported this decision by introducing this environmental tax since January 1st, 17th, because changing the way budgets are adopted is more than forbidden. But unfortunately, from the voice of this bill, this date was changed to January 1st, 16th. At this point many areas and areas and cities have adopted their local budgets. In this case, the Ivano-Frankiv region has adopted its budget, and this rule removes today 35 percent of its own revenue from the budget of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Similar things in Lviv and similar things to a lesser extent, including Winnitz. If we don't accept this bill now, it's going to mean we're going to have to pass the law on the allocation of Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky and Vinnitsky State Budget subsidies. If we accept this bill now, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u66	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u67	Then, for our own reasons, we will balance the budgets of these areas. There is no other logic here than to dilute the state's budget, not to ask for grants, but to allow it to be closed at the expense of its own revenue for one year, for the following years a special norm, a special environmental tax fund, will be in place. I would very much ask you to support a better formula for the state, not to aggravate the situation in both the Ivano-Frankow region and Winnicki and Lvivsky. I'd like to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u68	Please, 3778-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u69	He's not an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u70	Isn't he an alternative? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 2 minutes, Oleg Neda. She didn't, and then the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u71	Dear friends, dear colleagues, MPs, the community, firstly, I want to read the article of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. This article states that environmental protection funds, funds, and funds provide that the costs of local and state environmental funds can only be used to finance environmental protection, as well as measures to reduce environmental pollution. That I'm proposing this law. What we voted on in January. December that all the money that comes after collecting the pollution tax goes to the environmental fund. We voted, 80 percent are local councils, and 20 percent, we voted, we go to budget. In the state budget, in general. I propose this law to make this 20 percent that goes into 2016. In 2017, they went to a special fund, a fund for environmental protection, because of the fact that many people in the world were living in a natural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted yesterday and we were very pleased that Germany is giving us 15 million euros to develop a natural-intelligence fund. But what we do. That we're sending our pollution money to the general fund, and the money we're supposed to spend. Please go to Europe. Second thing I want to say. That we had forgotten for 20 years when we financed the army. And what do we get out of this? We have what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u72	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u73	I mean, if we stop funding conservation, it'll be irreversible. Undoubtedly: The Dniester will be salted, the hydrants will be in the Lviv region and Kalus will go underground. I ask you very much to vote on Law 3778-1 and not to support Law 3778. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u74	Please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! On January 28, the Committee on Budget Affairs discussed Bill 3778. This bill is proposed as an exception in 2016 to 80 per cent of the environmental tax paid in Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankov and Lviv regions to be included in the general fund of the respective local budgets. Including rural, rural urban budgets, a combined community of 25 percent, and district budgets 55 percent. According to valid environmental tax rules, the Special Fund can balance the approved local budgets in the current year, up to 35 percent. There's a call for specific areas, such as Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky and Vinnitsky, heads of district government administrations where the councils are concerned, December 25 in particular in the Ivano-Frankiv region, the approved budget for 2016, which provides for the Ecological Fund to be added to the general fund's income of 152 million dollars, which is about 35 percent to the district budget for that reason, the balance is very important. As far as Bill 3778-1 is concerned, he was not considered on the committee and does not at present have the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. As a result, the committee adopted the following decision: to recommend Bill 3778 to the Supreme Council and to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law as a result of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Two for, two against, please. Please, Vadim Yvchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u77	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My fellow Members, I would like to remind those deputies who come here and accuse the coalition of something more correct and say that the budget was accepted by two factions and coalitions, Fatherland and Self-Help for the budget for the vote. What are we correcting today? Now, according to the bill, these are essentially two different bills. One bill says, as they will, that they will distribute the costs of 20 percent of the government budget, which is what they propose to go to the Ministry of Environment special fund. Another bill proposes to divide another 80 percent directly across the territory. 25 percent of villages, villages, cities of district importance, and united communities, and 55 percent of them in district budgets. But, colleagues, when we adopted the budget at the time, the "Paternity" faction clearly said, let's define the meaning of this tax for the local budgets. Didn't you and I know that this tax is financed by medicine and a vet? Today, one area says minus 10 million. Why? Because we've moved into a special fund. Another area says minus 40 million. So the proposal, "Fatherland" will vote in the first reading. But we suggest to the budget committee that we address all the financial authorities, the district council boards' boards, and study the quality of the issue so that we don't have a second reading about why we give to each other, and we don't give to others. I'm sure if we study, we have to vote in general. So today we're proposing on a base and let's not make mistakes, we've already made mistakes, we've been used that night. Let us now openly vote in the first reading and learn qualitatively where the environmental tax will go, and what questions will the local authorities decide how they will decide if they do not receive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u78	Please, the next speaker is Stepan Ivakhov, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u79	Please pass the word to your colleague, Ivanchuk Andrija.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u80	Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u81	Dear friends! I just want to explain what this bill is. Let's take, for example, three areas there. Take, for example, one area of Ivano-Frankivsk. The village council of Botswana has a total budget of 700,000 per year. This is the only environmental tax that she gets. 50 million. They don't know what to do with it. But when dust falls from the Burstin power station, it does not just fall into the village of Bowshew, where the wind blows, where the dust falls. That's why we need to get this money out of the country council because she doesn't need it. Second question, Lviv district, Goodwill TEC. A city-type village has a million 400,000 dollars, and it receives an environmental tax of 70 million. This bill. And so is the Ladzien TEC in the Vinnitsk region. It's just for justice. Because this money needs to be raised to the district and district budgets and used there for the needs of the people. Thank you, everyone. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u82	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u83	Friends, a wise person who can correct mistakes. He who knows that he has made a mistake and is afraid to admit it cannot be called wise. I say again, the point is that the Ivano-Frankow District Council held a session, asked each of you for 32 percent of the budget of its own income, because it was adopted after the adoption of the budget of the area. We're going to have to give a grant from the state budget to this area. Once again, if we are wise and we know that this grant needs to be saved on many other things, let these areas balance the budget. This standard works for one year. The bill has not given or is not an alternative; it refers to a completely different subject. And so you can't say that my alternative is better than this one. I beg you to listen, support, save the state funds, allow the local authorities to balance the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u84	People's Deputies. Matvienkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u85	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Well, what do you want me to start with? Since, in general, the principle of cynicism, legislation, it continues to work. Well, first of all, we're back on the same loot that we've been on for a long time, adopted the budget, entered into force, and now we're starting to fix it. I just don't understand one thing. Look, the Vinnitsk region, it's pretty clear how it got there. How did these two other areas end up? Are there no such problems in other areas? Yesterday you're convinced, you're saying that everything is going well today with decentralization, money does, money does. In general, we need to turn our face to this tax and figure out, after all, why this is happening: that cities such as Mariupol, Zaporozhye, Dnepropetrovsk, Krivo Rog, Dneprodžinsk, who have actually polluted environmental emissions that are in a really critical situation must, we will be speaking, be in the principles of the cities that fill this fund, and the fund is working incomprehensiblely on whom and incomprehensiblely on what. In the end, let's stop and look at and figure out, 80 percent of what we're going to do is give people some compensation, and 20 percent of what we're going to do is we're not going to put them up here, and we're going to put them up there, and we're not going to put them in the area where the district official decides to give them to someone, but not to give them to someone, but to someone who needs them, who's breathing and who's producing the economy in our country. And that's a superficial approach -- patching holes, again, because, sorry, lost in the budget in time and not in time, so if you'll excuse me, decentralization in action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u86	Colleagues, please Oleg, Oleg Lazko. Please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the discussion in the hall shows the need for real decentralization, real empowerment and financial resources to local communities. The Village Council in Ivano-Frankivsky, in Chernigivsky, in Vinnitsky, or in the Zitomir region knows better than in Kiev, what they need to repair, where they can direct money. But if we want to have a single unitary country, this unity begins with a single system of taxation, with a single system of defense and security. And when we're told, "Let's take a separate law for the Winnitz region because there's environmental problems; there's a separate law for the Ivano-Frankiv region, because there's environmental problems," -- so you don't take an area -- all over the environmental problems. This is the beginning of separatism: when you take one area and you go around the other. Therefore, there should be the same system for all taxes, and at least 80 percent of taxes should remain in local communities in all areas throughout Ukraine. This is the position of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u88	Colleagues, in a minute. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Your area.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to what this is about. We're not having a conversation right now about how much to give, how much to give to the center. This is not the point of the problem. I'm not a supporter of the individual approach to regulating budgetary income relations. But what happened? And there is a problem that needs to be addressed. I'm not sure what's in this final form, but we have to react. Last year, the environmental tax was fully included in the general government budget, 100 percent. As long as we were budgeted here, some local councils passed laws on local budgets. At that time, they were governed by valid legislation, according to which environmental taxes are included in the general fund. They distributed it. Parliament then woke up, passed a law that stipulated that the environmental tax would partly go to the special fund. As a result, a special fund is taken by law, and local budgets have distributed it to the general budget. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u90	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u91	Which should be settled. I have an offer. Let's vote in the first reading and give the commission to the Committee of Budgets along with Minfin. Perhaps that is the case in other regions, and we are resolving this problem for all regions of Ukraine. Please support me at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u92	That's a good idea, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, let's go to the vote. It was a good idea to vote 3778 on the basis of the first reading and to continue working on and resolving the issue on the committee. Please take your seats, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the ground! I ask everyone to support this proposal. We'll work on it and then we'll see. It's a warning base. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's base the signal vote on 3778. Based on the base. Come on, let's vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:36:30.]] For-142 Yes. 142. Please, once again on the committee, discuss this matter. The committee will discuss it, and so will we. We've discussed it now, you'll discuss it on the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again first. For one more time? [[B in m in s a l in]] 3778-1. The committee didn't look at him. I didn't. Let's re-read 3778. 3778, also a signal vote. 3778, one more time, to the committee for one more time. Signal, signal. [[17:37:50]] For 165 I didn't get the required number of votes. Dear colleagues, let's work on this law. Let's move on. 2724: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation of the Ukrainian State Road Fund, 2724. 2724, honourable colleagues, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of the Ukrainian State Road Fund. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft Law. Please, Your Honor, vote, 2724. [[17:39:20]] For a hundred and Report, report. Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich, report. Let's do it in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u93	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! I want to start with one number. 40 percent of Ukraine’s highways have been completely destroyed or require capital repairs. The length of the network of roads of national importance is 50,000 kilometers. The average term of service is 7-10 years. An average of 5,000 miles [5,000 km] per year is needed. Please take a look at the slide. What's really going on. Given that no more than 20 percent of the need has been financed in the last 10 years, we now need to rebuild the entire network. For many years, construction and repair have taken place in line with the remaining principle. The 15th year budget allocated 22 billion dollars, of which almost 19 billion went to debt service and 3 billion dollars went to road construction. In the 16th year, we predicted 18.7, 11.9 billion dollars in debt service, and 6.5 billion of us just spend on building, repairing roads. I just want to point out that the need for only the current minor repairs exceeds 7.7 billion dollars, which is catastrophically not enough. With this approach, Ukraine risks losing its roads in general. So we need to establish control over revenue and its effective use. This is what this bill is proposing, which creates a state-owned, special state road fund. It's about filling up. First, I want to show that the excise tax on gas and diesel is 0.15, 0.11 euros per litre. The payment of import duties with oil products, the payment of taxes on the purchase of transport equipment, which is 3 percent. That's not a new idea. In the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u94	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u95	We put together two bills, so two minutes. That's a new idea. There's been a road fund in the world where in New Zealand since the 53rd, in Japan since the 54th, in the United States of America since the 56th. I'll just give you a few examples. In Poland, for example, the road fund has been operating since 2004, the excise rate is almost 600 euros, and the revenue is 8 billion euros per year. In Germany, excise duty is 882 euros and almost 50 billion euros are coming. In Ukraine, by January 1, we had 202 euros and a total of 620 million. In view of the above-mentioned examples, the amount of revenue from the State Road Fund should be, at least, three times as much as it is now. Distribution. First. 60 percent of the fund’s funds are for building and repairing public roads; 5 percent are for financing road safety measures; 35 are for local roads. I want to point out that this bill is consistent with the principle of decentralization, where we transfer not only problems to cities, but also tools to solve them. We know that we're passing these roads to the local level as foreseen in Law 0954. It should also be noted that this bill conforms to the principle of the Coalition Agreement. The Fund will allow the catchors to plan costs and plan projects and repairs for 2-3 years. It's not going to be a manual distribution mode anymore, it's going to be able to get the bank's credit costs involved, and it's going to speed things up across the country. I would like to express my gratitude to the Minister of Infrastructure, Andrija Pivovarski, and to all the authors of the bills: Dubnevich, Didenko, Gordjeev, Medunice, Krulka, Gerasimov. Let's build high-quality roads with new technologies that withstand such pressures that will help Ukraine be competitive in the world market. Please support the Bills 74 and 75. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u96	2724 and 2725. Thank you. Jaroslav Dubnevich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u97	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 2724) "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of the State Road Fund." The bill was introduced by a group of national deputies who were preceded by a mandate. the authority to manage roads of local importance and to finance these roads of the Special Road Fund is delegated. I want to point out that the most important thing in this bill is that 35 percent of the funds that will fill this road fund will be automatically transferred to the local government. If we vote in favour of the Road Fund Act, after the second reading of this bill and the adoption of this bill, we can go back to the consideration of Law 0954 on the transfer of public roads of local importance to the administration of local councils. If this bill is adopted, local authorities at the district level will be able to finance the roads offered to local authorities. I ask you, honourable national deputies, without the support of this bill, the authorities of the local council do not have the opportunity to finance the state-wide roads of local importance. Please be supportive. According to the Transport Committee, it is recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this bill as a basis, as well as between the first and second readings, to remove from the road fund a precautionary fund to ensure that the motor transport office functions are guaranteed to be warned. And also, we are waiting for all the amendments that will be made by the nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u98	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the basis. Is there a need to discuss it? Guys, we don't have much time. Shall we vote? Here. 2724. Colleagues, take your seats, please. The signal vote is the basis. Thank you for understanding that we are not discussing this for a long time because we need to accept it. 2724. Signal on the base. Invite MPs. Ready? 2724 on the ground. Signal. Please vote. Vote. [[17:48:09]] For-140. There are no votes under this law. And the second law is the same position as I understand it. We will have an additional discussion on this subject. Dear colleagues, we have the Law on. We have orders for the release of judges. At the author’s suggestion, we are moving on to these two issues, 2724, 2725. Do we have a deal? Yeah. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. The release of the judges, please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, your point is to have two rulings and I think that since there is in principle a basis, basically a voluntary declaration of resignation, I would like to believe that they will not be the subject of serious discussion. With your permission to announce the first one is number 3580. Pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 9, part five, article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council rules. In view of the impossibility of exercising their powers under the state of health, release the judges: Selidium City Court of the Donetsk district of Kanishtiv Natalija Alexandrovna, The economic court of the Poltava district of Timchenko Bogdan Petrovich. In connection with the application for resignation to be released from the post of judges: Onopenek Vasil Vasilovitch, Supreme Court of Ukraine, The Court of Appeal of Odessa District Martinov Catherine Petrovna, Overina Olga Valerievna, the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Petrenko Vasil Mikolaiovich, the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Danilenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, the Court of Appeal of the Czernieweck district of the Vávodáns Katherina Ivanovna, the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Levantchuk Aleksija Mikolayovich Dnipropetrov's Chamber of Commerce Court of Bahmat Rauf Mullamtovna; The Crusader District Court of the Dushkov Valentina Fedorovna District; Samarsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska Majmur Galin Jakovna; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Burlachenka Oleg Aleksandrovitch; Uzhgorod Regional Court of Zakarpatsk, Ferenz Andrija Mikolaiovich; Shevchenkow District Court of Zaporozhye Izhewska Natal Hennadijna; Kyivo-Svetoshinsky District Court of Kyiv Region Medvid Natalija Alexandrovna; Aleksandrian Regional Court of Kirovograd, Palamarczuk Mikhail Stepanović; The Jashiv District Court of the Tomaszewsk Region of Volodymyr Mikolayovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Chernivts Rudaków Sergija Evgenovich; The Zacarpathian Economic Court of Vaščilina Nadia Mikhailnovna; Economic Court of the Odessa District of Panchenko Olga Leonidivna Third. In connection with the application for discharge at the discretion of the judges: The Bologna District Court of Donetsk Gracheva Ruslan Rafitovich; The Kirov district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Sitinka Artem Igorovich Please note that there were three other names in the draft decree: this is Kachan Alexander Volodymyrovich, the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region, he withdrew his resignation application. And three judges, namely: the Yellow District Court of Lugansk Sitnika Alexander Ivanovich and the Court of Appeal of Lugansk Region Zaporozenko Olena Alexandrovna and Krasnolutsky City Court of Lugansk Region of Sheluta Vejacheslav Mihajlovich, have replied by letter to the High Council of Justice in connection with the fact that they have information that they need to be examined on the grounds that these judges can exercise justice in illegally declared republics, so I ask these judges not to be considered today. In this regard, I ask that, honourable colleagues, vote on the whole draft Order 3580 on the release of judges. Thank you. I'll announce the next draft of the ruling after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u101	3580 in total.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges (registration number 3580). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? The vote is called for everyone to vote. Alexei! Please vote in favour of the release of the judges, my colleague. Please, we're taking our seats. Let's vote in advance for the release of the judges. Please support everyone. Vote. The release of judges, colleagues, please vote everyone. [[17:54:11]] For 199 Colleagues, please take your seats, take your seats. Please. Let's do it again, Your Honor, a signal vote. 3580: Order for the release of judges Take your seats, please. Signal, vote, colleagues. Please. Please be supportive. [[17:54:55]] For 212 Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, please concentrate. 3580: Draft Decision on the release of judges. In general, a signal vote. Ready to vote? Let's vote. Please support this project, everyone. Vote. [[17:56:10]] For 221 Colleagues, please! Colleagues come in. Please. Turn around. It was a signal vote, 221 votes. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Once again, Project Decision 3580, release of the judges. Signal vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. The release of judges. [[5:57:05]] For 222 Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please give a signal vote on the release of the judges, 3580. Colleagues coming up, coming up. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:58:05]] For 223 They're coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this is the release of the judges. Come on, we have to vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Is it? Come on, fellows of honor. 3580, release of judges. Until we vote, we're out of here. Ready to vote? Please support in general, we vote, we vote, please support, we vote in total 3580. Let's vote the alarm, let's all support it. Please. [[17:59:19]] For 221 All right, colleagues. Here come some other deputies, please. Last vote for today. Colleagues, please, mobilize. 3580, release of judges. A signal vote, but we need everyone to vote. Attention! We're voting again, signal vote, colleagues. Vote. We all support this decision. [[18:00:53]] For 226 And now no one's leaving. 226. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! No one's leaving. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. 3580 in total, we vote. Vote. All right, we're voting, please. Vote. [[18:01:16]] For 226 [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Fellows, come back. Last one. Judge of the Constitutional Court. Wait a minute. Come back. The Constitutional Court judge who took an oath should be released from the Supreme Court. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u103	I'm asking you not all the lists, but at least remove the name of one, the Constitutional Court judge who made the decision. By Decree 4010, Krivenko Viktor Vasilovich. Vote. And form this decision with a new issue of the new decision. If, perhaps, because he must gain authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m1.u104	Let's do this whole thing. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Registration number 4010, Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 4010. In general, we vote, colleagues, we vote. Signal vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:02:57]] For 219 Let's vote again. Let's go 4010, release the judges. Come on, let's vote. Ratings 4010. Vote, everyone, please. Let's vote, please support. [[18:03:35]] For 223 Well, it's almost there. 223. Let's do it again. Vote. Vote 4010, ratings. Vote. [[18:03:54]] For the 220. Colleagues, I'm just, I don't have words. We're going to do our job, you then, you then, you're going to be offended that the Supreme Council shouldn't even have any bearing on this, because such a vote is simply, well, a horror. There are judges' resignations to vote, that's what the procedure requires. Can't we vote 226 votes? But whoever comes out to this rostrum, they all say that the judges are bad. Please take your seats. Whether I have great pleasure, you think I should put it 20 times. Please all support and vote. It's a policy-free issue. This is a constitutional obligation. Please. Make a decision. 4010, overall, rating headship, please support everyone. Please vote. Please support everyone. [[18:05:10]] For 226 Let's not go, colleagues, 226, please support. Vote, please. Each voice is important. Please, let's support it. 4010, please support everyone, colleagues. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please support. Vote. Please vote. The release of Judges 4010 as a whole, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:05:39]] For 228 The decision has been made. Thank you, colleagues. I have two more announcements. Oh, wait a minute. So we're in the morning. One minute. We adopted, by 297 votes, in general, Bill 3830-3 on changes to the state budget for 2016 for the financing of trade and technology. Since there was no formal decision by the government at the time of the vote to change the budgetary figures for this issue, there is no reason to correct the percentages in the addenda to the bill in the drafting of the relevant law as we voted with you. So I point out that Bill 3830 was adopted in general, taking into account the decisions of the Committee on Budgets and in our vote it was 3,3830-3. And according to this, we had a decision with technical law -- it was a decision. Next up, your honors, announcements. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine Chumak Viktor Vasilovich from the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" faction. Next. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Will of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call of 26 January 2016, I report on the election of the deputy head of the "will of the people" group of the Ukrainian national deputy, Ivakhiv Stepan Petrovic. Thank you, Your Honor. I hereby announce the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Stop! Tomorrow. Thank you, Your Honor, and I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
