ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're starting our work. Please prepare for registration, fellow members of the national parliament. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:06:03]] 288 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. There's a faction of Peter Dustenk, which is why some of the deputies are not in the hall, but please sign in. Please turn on the system to write. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm addressing you today on behalf of the Peter Dusty Block. The last week or the most discussed topic was the information contained in the documents of the Panamanian company Mossack Fonseca. Various political statements were made, some politicians making rather harsh statements, which in the vast majority focused on the oppression of the situation, leading the political crisis to huge scales. Speculating on questions that were not exactly known to the average citizen, masked by slogans, was suggested, including the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify possible tax evasion by Ukrainian citizens. If we really want to solve the problem, not just talk about it, I suggest we move to a professional plane. Everybody knows that despite the global trend in tax evasion and tax minimisation schemes, offshore use continues to be the most popular tool in tax planning and concealment. For example. According to a study of the international tax justice network, the value of assets hidden in tax havens worldwide is about $21 trillion. Thus, while not wanting to accept a significant reduction in tax revenues, most nations have gradually introduced increasingly sophisticated tools to combat such schemes into their legal systems. Ukraine is not an exception. But the movements in this direction are very weak in Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we would like to consider preparing and implementing a large-scale comprehensive legislative project to protect and strengthen the national tax base that will include it. Dear colleagues, we must first introduce into national legislation the notion of "offshore jurisdiction" whether it's "tax haven" or "tax shelter", "low tax jurisdiction" that is not in our legislation. Dear colleagues, what kind of tax evasion are you going to set up a temporary commission if there are no such definitions in legislation? The only definition introduced by law is article 39, which allows for control through the transfer system. control of the transfer pricing of farm operations, including off-shore areas. Our faction proposes to set up a working group within Parliament that will discuss with you weekly, honourable colleagues, what decisions we have to make, including political ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u4	Such a commission, such a working group that will be formed in the Supreme Council, will be the beginning of a zero discussion that works in all European countries. It is a very sensitive subject, including a foreign investor. Dear colleagues, please don't make populist statements, because they harm not only the economy, but both the internal and foreign investors. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u5	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u6	A big request: Respectfully refer to those large taxpayers who keep and fill Ukraine’s budget, and at the expense of them, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u7	Thank you. From the People's Front, Fedoruk passes the word to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u8	Good morning, dear fellows! The last few hours have been dramatic for the country: anxious expectations, unexpected statements, conflicting reports, and the prospect of a positive final. At the very least, we believe that the final decision of our partners to form a coalition with the faction of the Peter Prashenko bloc on the nomination of the prime minister and the execution of its part of the deal has a solid foundation. And it will not be ruined by ambition or controversy or by a crisis of responsibility for the country. Experienced people say that it is definitely harmful for health to see sausage and politics made. When it comes to yesterday’s evening, there would be no revision of the political kitchen. Let us not expect to shock a country that has been under stress for more than three years; a country that has held the front against its enemy while fighting for life with an insidious inner enemy who in unison with Putin is rocking Ukraine, counting on to blow it from the inside and throw it under the hands of the invader. Let us not be ridiculous in the comfort of the enemy. Let us not give the excuse to think to fellow countrymen that it is better to return to slavery to yesterday’s comrades Janukovic than to observe the circus’s political numbers. The trust of the Ukrainians is the largest capital of the democratic forces in Parliament. We are obliged to multiply it. Unity and the ability to compromise in the name of the country at an extremely difficult time should be the goal of everyone who today holds a master scepter in his hands. On behalf of the People's Front, I want to state this: our faction has a history of unity and partnership. We realize that today the authorities are appealing to the memory of tens of generations of patriots who have fought for the country’s independence with the call not to foment a historic chance to build a powerful, powerful European country. So, first of all, our political team continues to offer a partnership hand to our partners at the Peter Prashenko Block. Overcome internal contradictions, seek solutions within your team. On our part, no new positions, no demands. We, without too much paphos, will be reliable partners, and we will remain so. Our leader, Arsenius Yatzenuk, claimed that he was not holding the Prime Minister's chair, wrote a corresponding resignation application yesterday voluntarily, and this step was the answer to his long-term tedious work. The other one. What must we do to make a constructive decision immediately? The People's Front sees two options: either the restoration of the European Ukraine coalition, or the immediate formation of a new coalition. Our faction as a state power is ready to support both. Third. The Supreme Council has to vote for Arsenius Yatsenuk's resignation, enough to throw aside the government, the road is open, we work in new formats to protect the country and reform. Four. The Supreme Council is to vote in favour of the Prime Minister's nomination from the Peter Dustenk Block. Fifth. Parliament is obliged by its vote immediately to approve the full composition of the new Cabinet of Ministers. Members of the coalition are obliged to support the government's action programme and to implement the coalition agreement, underneath all of which are the signatures of all our deputies from the People's Front faction. I would like to emphasize: everyone, unanimously. We're officially addressing the Peter Prashenko bloc to immediately submit to the coalition the Prime Minister's candidacy and the composition of the new government. We also address all democratic forces in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u10	Be honest with yourself, men and God. Forget the sad tradition that where two Ukrainians are, there are three Gehtmans. Get to work together, join the coalition, work is enough for everyone. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u11	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Opposition Block requires the authority to meet five demands of opposition, including: first, ensuring peace in Ukraine and implementing the Minsk Accords; further decentralization with constitutional reform, transferring authority to the local level; adoption of a new, honest budget; population index in relation to the real level of inflation, first and foremost, wages and pensions; adoption of a programme to save the economy and restore economic growth; and the fight against corruption. If such a plan is not accepted by the authorities, the Opposition Block sees no sense of support for the new government and will demand the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The country is tired of a constant crisis, and Ukrainians need power to improve their lives. The ten steps out of the crisis plan, proposed by the opposition block, gives that answer, and it's understood for society. It's really based on people's needs, not political ambitions, and it's real for execution. Ukrainians dream of a European standard of living, but the authorities have been destroying these prospects for two years, destroying the real economy and aggravating the Ukrainian’s standard of living. The government and the parliamentary majority forced the country into an economic social stupor. Last week in a referendum in Holland, there was an evaluation of the power in force, its inaction. Once again, this is a failure of power, not of the Ukrainian people. For this slap in the face of our country, the specific ones in power today must bear political responsibility. And the last key issue that concerns the entire world community today, but more than anything else, is the full implementation of the Minsk Treaties and the final cessation of the military conflict. Until there is peace, the economy and the country will be on the verge of breaking down. It is therefore necessary to adopt a package of laws for a peaceful settlement of the situation that the opposition bloc proposed a year ago for consideration by Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u13	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The world today is watching the release of offshore material that exposes the most cynical, the most vile, dirty devices of this world. We were suddenly told that offshore was normal after it was discovered that the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, had registered his firms in offshore. Before that, President Poshenko's program was to ban offshores, after it was discovered that he continued to open offshores in order to avoid paying taxes to hide his billion-dollar offshore business, then the President's apologists began to say that everything was okay. If we're going to Europe, let's see how Europe reacts to an offshore scandal: the Prime Minister of Iceland resigned; British Prime Minister Cameron yesterday in the British Parliament reported on his firm, namely, his father's offshore firms; at least ten countries of the world started investigating the offshore. Because who registers offshore firms? Drug lords, corrupt politicians and dictators. I am sorry that the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, has come into this bad company of those who hide their own businesses in offshore areas. To the well-known Ukrainian citizens. Experts from Ukraine estimate that 170 billion dollars were spent in independence. We have 15 percent of pensioners paying taxes, 1.5 percent of the military community paying Ukrainians. It turns out, the only one who can't pay taxes is the President of Ukraine, who avoids, through offshore registering companies, so as not to pay taxes. Because if he were to sell his famous Roschen in Ukraine, he would have paid 20 percent of the tax. When he sells through offshore, that's zero percent of the tax. I ask, why do farmers have to pay their taxes in order to fill the budget? Why do pensioners have to pay 20 percent in order to fill their budget? Why does the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, who calls investors here, hide his business from Ukraine? Because he doesn't believe him -- Ukraine because he doesn't trust the Ukrainian people because he thinks it's impossible to pay taxes on the army, on the school, on the hospital, on the pension, on the budget. That's why the Radical Party faction initiates a collection of signatures under the establishment of a special temporary commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of corruption and abuse in President Prashenko's actions and, if confirmed, the initiation of an impeachment procedure for the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u15	The Self-Help faction, Alona Babak, conveys the word Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u16	First. I want to say that Self-help will support all the decisions, including the new coalition, the new government that we've shared and shared. Tax cuts, the cleaning up of the state from business, the introduction of a transparent, efficient system of defense purchases -- we're voting and voting for it. However, we are addressing colleagues in Parliament, which are decisions that are not included in the agenda, but that are impossible to go around. Without them, there will be neither the success of the new government nor the success of the State as a whole. The first such decision is the decision to elect all the following attorneys-generals by an independent commission through a competition. Only if the country has an independent Attorney General who has succeeded in destroying the kleptocrats will it be possible to give people hope that justice is possible, that we are starting to build it, and that we are starting to build it out of ourselves. Whoever becomes Prime Minister will not be able to do anything unless there is a strong, independent Attorney General. In itself, the Prime Minister will not be able to drive the kleptocrats away from state-owned enterprises, he will not be able to manage the spending of taxpayers' money. So Self-Help urges Parliament outside of dependence on who is currently in the coalition, who is currently in opposition, to adopt a law under which all the following general prosecutors will be elected through a competition guaranteeing their independence. One more decision. We can talk a lot about the need for the President's impeachment, but in Ukraine there has been and remains a situation that legislation does not allow the President to declare impeachment. That's why all the presidents in Ukraine are being expelled by the Mayans. We need to move on to civilized decisions: passing the law on temporary commissions of inquiry. And the first such commission really has to investigate whether the President of Ukraine runs the business on the scale that journalists write about, whether he violates the Constitution of Ukraine and the demands of the whole society. Such a law on temporary commissions of inquiry should be an impetus for the adoption of an even more important law, a law that we think can destroy kleptocracy in general and forever. It's another election system for Parliament when Parliament is elected not in districts where oligarchs rule, where people are bribed, where money is resolved, but when parliament is elected for open party lists. We are against successive parliamentary elections, but we are in favour of giving people new representatives and, together with the people, we have been able to bring the state into line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, the political crisis that we are witnessing today gives us the opportunity and the necessity to conclude what took place in two years. And two years later, it happened that the ambitions of the country's individual first politicians, who now lead the country, led us to say that instead of re-establishing the economy, instead of re-establishing the industry, re-establishing the expertise, increasing wages and pensions, creating the modern European infrastructure that we talked about and dreamed of, European integration, we came to the point that today, unfortunately, the ruling coalition collapsed. They've broken the government's work, and they've done almost the last six months to do everything they can to, like in the saying, "It's no longer necessary with such enemies," to shut down the government's work, to shut down Parliament's work. And in fact, today we have the sum total of the political crisis that we need to come out of through the formation of a new economic policy. We hope that there will be enough common sense in the two factions that are going to form a coalition, to make a government that won't go back to the ball in six months, and it won't just be a couple issue. We expect you to have a clear economic policy this six months, but we understand that a government without other institutions of state government will not be able to do anything and bring order to an end. We need to reshape Parliament, make less than twice the number of committees, each of which will be responsible for the ministry. We have to finally get to the National Bank, which is called the Rebirth Party, and our faction has been saying for over a year and a half that the Head of the National Bank has not been able to handle his authority. You look at what the economy of Ukraine and the national monetary unit, the inflation of the crazy, the amount of money in the economy of Ukraine declined by 16 billion dollars compared to minus a few years ago, and that's the National Bank's performance rate. Over the past five and a half years, 65 banks have emerged from the banking sector. And they lost, because of their liquidation, our people are individuals, entrepreneurs of $7.2 billion in Ukraine. That's almost 200 billion dollars that investors are running behind today can't take away. And at the same time, the government, Nazbank on their knees, they're going to the International Monetary Fund to get 11 billion. So what are we talking about? For 11 billion you were willing to increase tariffs, and put the economy down, and cut whole sectors of the economy out. At the same time, the banking sector, which had this amount of money and had the opportunity to ensure economic and financial stability in Ukraine, was lost, put on blades. That's why we're still asking for a re-examination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release this government at the same time as the Head of the National Bank of the United States of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which has overturned economic and financial policy. And we see what that led to today. That is why we need to put up and vote. Whoever doesn't want to vote is responsible for what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u19	Thank you. Who hasn't spoken? Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I think that these two months since the 247 national deputies have declared the government's work unsatisfactory have not gone in vain. But I think they've passed away in vain for the government and for those who are trying to form a new government in the old ways. Our faction has deliberately voted for the government's work to be unsatisfactory, realizing that there is only one way to change the situation in the country is to return to the path of European reform. And that is why we propose, literally this week, to consider the necessary issues, such as the Prime Minister's declaration of resignation and the adoption of an appropriate decision. But just giving up won't change anything. We believe that, given the latest developments in Ukraine and in the world, we need to adopt a number of decisions that will not only allow us to make statements that we have a European development vector, but that the country is really starting to carry out European reforms. First. Our faction is literally now registering the bill that we promised to de-offshoring the country. These are actually two legislative acts that allow for a clear settlement of the situation of so-called offshore jurisdictions, off-shore areas, and the order of payment of taxes in Ukraine. These bills answer key questions: How can billions of dollars not flow out of Ukraine? We have taken the best experience of countries that have learned to fight offshore in recent decades. And this is a project we're proposing and presenting to all factions and non-fractional MPs. Whoever wants, we are ready to take you into co-authorship, and this bill should be the basis of our policy of de-foresting the country and the country's economy. The other one. We need to adopt a series of decisions that relate to the agrarian sector. These bills have been in Parliament motionless for almost a third month. These decisions must be made in order for us to become a land of farming, not large agroholdings. And the third. Questions of tariff policy. All the necessary decisions are equally in Parliament, but unfortunately, the country is looking forward to a new gas tariff. Our faction considers political decisions unacceptable, not a clear economic budget that allows these tariffs to be reduced today. This is the task of the next government and the next coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, more Moscalenko. This is going to be the final performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u22	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to start with a little piece of folk creativity that has been echoing since April 26, 86, when the tragedy of the Chernobyl disaster came to Ukraine, Ukraine, on Ukrainian soil. Those who were burned in the fire in the first minutes covered the earth with a duel without leaving any fasting. The Chernobyl tragedy has claimed nearly 100,000 lives of liquidators, and 165 thousand have become disabled. 30 years is not a term that has passed since the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. 30 years is the half-life of two extremely harmful radiation elements: cesium-137 and strion-90. This is the time that the Ukrainian authorities long ago thought that we could not repeat the mistakes of the Soviet leaders of the day. There are massive tragedies, there are devastating human lives, upon whom their footprints are in direct terms, and in a figurative sense this catastrophe has caused. This is more than 600,000 liquidators and 200,000 displaced persons. Half of the children living in the area of enhanced radiological control in the dispensary system, 95 schoolchildren have different types of disease, and the number of children with inborn disabilities is increasing, but they are not being contacted by Chernobyl. By the end of 2014, the authorities had set up the second Chernobyl, and so the cause of the 1986 explosion was far from technical. The irresponsibility of the then authorities forced the station to put experiments on the reactor. The same irresponsibility of today’s authorities has been reversed by the medical, social, and extermination efforts. And with what did we come to the 30th anniversary of Chernobyl? I truly believed that this year we would return to the Chernobyls with our faces. Bill 2093, recently supported by the Supreme Council, aimed at restoring the constitutional rights of the Chernobylites. I emphasize that it was balanced, without a drop of populism, even more, before Parliament was introduced, it was in agreement with the government. The president took into account only the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and made a commitment to this awesome law. Among the average citizens, we hear the word "genocide" more and more. Thus, people appreciate their attitude toward them in terms of tariffs, food prices, medicines at low wages, and poor pensions. Today, the authorities are in the process of being updated, and we will have a new coalition and a new government without five minutes. Gentlemen, let's do what we have to do, let's meet April 26 with our eyes raised, overcome the veto and work on it. I can't block the rostrum, instigate people, and lead the Supreme Council is not my method. But I feel human pain with my heart, and I know exactly that we have to overcome the President's veto in action, not in words to show that Parliament cares about people. I believe in common sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u24	Otherwise, such a Butaphoric honor will turn into the burning tires of the blackbirds under our windows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The statements from the factions and groups have been completed and I must now read out the announcements that have come to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nemirovski Andrija Valentinović, from the MP group "The Will of the People" and his membership in the MP's party "Block of Peter Poroshenko". Announcement. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies: Uriya Vasilovich, Meshchenka Sergija Grigorovič, Rudik Sergija Jaroslavovica, part of the party's deputy faction "Blok Petra Poroshenko". Dear colleagues! I'd like to consult you: we have the first block of questions: it's a question of inclusion in the agenda. But as the largest faction is missing, will you not deny how we're going to move on to the second block of questions, "The First Reading Review." There's no objection in the hall. And that's why we're going to the first-reading block of bills. Among those bills, it's a block of national security and defense. It stands first, and I announce it: the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's social protection laws, which have suffered as a result of the involvement of the anti-terrorist operation and members of their families, Bill 3497 and 3497-1. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. For consideration of 3497 under reduced procedure. Supporter, please vote. [[10:37:35]] For-75 No response was found in the hearts of the deputies, so we move on to the full procedure. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kremenya Taras Dmitrovic. Mr. Taras, you have 10 minutes to report. If you are more concise, it will be wise, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u26	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! Before you consider an explanation for the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on social protection of reserve workers who have suffered as a result of the anti-terrorist operation and their family members. It must not be repeated that the result of the long-standing fighting in eastern Ukraine, where an anti-terrorist operation takes place, is an extraordinary number of communities in our country, but most of them are military officials, law enforcement officials and other state authorities. Among all those involved in the antiterrorist operation, there are already some benefits and compensation available for military and family members. However, members of the reserve group who participated directly in the antiterrorist operation, serving in the military reserve of military formations, such as the National Guard, and held the same positions as military officials who were deprived of social protection at their level. The families of such reserve workers who lost their breadwinner have also found themselves in a better situation. According to recent reports, the number of deaths, including the number of National Guard reserve personnel, is more than 120. One guarantee for the social protection of military personnel is pension insurance, which is governed by the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Pensions for such persons are usually calculated on the basis of the financial security assigned to their position. In most cases, however, reserve money is defined at the minimum level, resulting from the minimum wage. When engaged directly in an antiterrorist operation, subject to the same threats and dangers, carrying out the same duties of service in the same positions as established military personnel, a reserve pension should be obtained from the same amount of cash that has been calculated. Then it is quite logical and just that a question has been asked and it has been possible to calculate pensions for those who have suffered by taking a direct part in the ATO, while at that time serving in the military reserve of military formations, on the basis of the size of the financial provision of the military personnel of the respective positions. So I'm asking my colleagues to support this bill. I believe that we should help the victims of our reserves, as well as those of the families of the dead ATO participants, to resolve social issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Mr. Taras, please. Three minutes to question the reporter. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question for the rapporteur, please sign up. Please hold the recording. Guilt Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. There is a proposal for this bill to be supported and, without prejudice to the fact that there are no deputies in the room today (of course why), to consider it discussed and to move forward in the daytime, and to vote as soon as they appear in the Chamber of Deputies. It's an important bill that makes it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u29	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you for the report. And I invite you from the committee to report to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Mr. Sergei, say the word to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u30	Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to this bill. You and I have adopted a vast array of laws on social protection and support for ATO veterans, disabled people, and the dead. Sadly, though, one segment of the legislation was lost. It's a small segment, but it's very painful. During the first stage of the antiterrorist operation, the National Guard then legally called for reserve workers and there were many cases where they were not placed in the state of military service. This also applies to the Donbas battalion, which also applies to the linear parts of the National Guard. And we have about two thousand people who haven't been in the state and who don't have the status of military personnel. Regrettably, there have been injuries among them, unfortunately, among them. And these people don't fall under our plethora of legislation. I am very grateful to the drafters of the bill, who have infiltrated the problem, who have drafted the bill. We considered him carefully on the committee. It's a minimum budget load, but it solves a very important psychological and legal problem. I ask everyone to support this bill and to remove this injustice that is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u31	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Mr. Sergei. There's a question for the reporter. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question for the rapporteur, please sign up for the address. Please turn on the writing system. Igor Mosiyczuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u32	Sir, sir. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Mr. Sergei, the very right law, we will uphold it accordingly. I would also like to know your position as head of the committee of profile and your faction on another bill that envisions a change of jurisdiction for the participants of the ATO. Because things are happening right now that the separatist judges are judging patriots who are going to protect the country and motivate, for example, keeping watch by shooting Donetsk our soldiers, and so on. So I would like to understand your clear position as the head of the committee and your faction on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u33	Not only did I head the committee, but our entire committee approved the concept of reforming military justice. The issue that has been raised is absolutely relevant and we are in favour of reforming all military justice. In our view, I emphasize that there should be military courts. We need to put the system in order and make the GSP a military law enforcement service with an effective tool and these crimes, all of which should be clearly controlled by one vertical. You're absolutely right that right now, thank God, it's not mass accidents, but there are isolated cases, it's unacceptable. And I want to address you and everyone else. If there are such cases, let's fix them and as a committee like the Supreme Council we'll react to them, at least manually.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u35	Mr. Sergei, the question is, are the rights of those people included in this bill, the volunteers who came in the early days of the war of the beginning of the aggression, who had a trial and could not be formed. And those volunteers who came from Maidan, who burned the documents in the union's house and couldn't form them then, and now there's a very big problem with their design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I want to take another look. I don't want to turn here into a discussion club, but as a part commander, you understand perfectly what you're asking. There's a question about an army officer, right? It's a state, it's a military ticket, it's an official duty and all that. This law regulates the soldiers of the reserve, this to the Armed Forces, in large accounts, had no bearing, because 95 percent of these facts are the National Guard. The question you raised can be regulated. You and I have passed laws on volunteers. Volunteers are not the only people who drive on the front lines of supplies and supplies, and these are people who have had a moment -- and they haven't been formed. So your question concerns another bill, it's settled there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u37	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Question time's up. Thank you for the report. Now, according to the Rules, speak from factions. And I'm asking the factions who want to come out of this question to sign up. Please hold the recording, please. From the Self-Help faction, Oleg Beresuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u38	The Self-Help faction will only support this law because these people who first came out to defend the country, and those people who are now suffering from the fact that they went out for the protection of the country and got hurt or even didn't get hurt when they came home, are in custody exclusively of their families and only their communities, if the communities are still caring. So from today or yesterday, we have to start a powerful movement of the state to meet families that are the basis and basis for the rehabilitation of those people, and to meet local communities that care about rehabilitation, rest, support for these boys, these women and their children. So this is the beginning of a road that's going to be long, because these guys aren't easy, they're hard to adapt to now in a peaceful life. This law is the beginning of our work, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u39	Thank you. Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u40	Welcome. Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party. In this case, the Radical Party faction fully supports this bill and it's really just the first bill. He's situational, he doesn't solve the problem of the reservists. Now we're preparing a new bill and we're inviting everyone to the press because all of our guys who are coming back out now have to be reservists. This system and this model work in all countries of civilization, where there are ongoing international conflicts. We need a new bill to give them opportunities, give them rights, because all of our guys who have demobilized and returned from the front, we're going to need their help, they're not just supposed to be socialized in the country, they're going to be our actual army of our reserve. It's a very important job, you have to do it. Because the experience that our boys have had on the front is invaluable, and this invaluable experience that we have in the country must accumulate it, offer it, protect it, and lead to our country always being prepared to resist any enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Vinnik Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, when Ukraine was attacked by the Russian Federation, Ukraine was not ready for this aggression, both physically and legally. Indeed, reserves were added to the National Guard before the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Reserves serving in the military reserve There is a legal conflict and a legal problem here, because the provisions of the Law on Social Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families do not apply to the reservists. Of course, we need to settle this question. The only thing is, it's been two years since the aggression, and we've only returned to it today. There's only about 120 people in the National Guard who don't have the social standards that we introduced as the Supreme Council for the Protection of Families of the Dead during the anti-terrorist operation. This law is extremely important. Unfortunately, he does not attract as much attention in the session room as the coalition does in creating a new government. Of course, it is a systemic thing to do, but the Ukrainian people still need to be cared for. So I urge everyone to focus now and vote on this bill. We offered to vote him on the basis of a committee. At the same time, if there are votes, we can vote in general. This is a very simple and very important task. Let's protect the families of the dead, this is our responsibility as the higher legislative body of Ukraine. Thank you. Let's focus on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u43	Thank you. So the factions are finished. Now we've got the section "Reputation from the People's Deputies." Colleagues who wish to express themselves, please pay attention. And I'm asking you to record a statement from the National Deputies, please. Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Yuri Babia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u45	The People's Front faction supports the bill and urges the House to support it on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u46	Thank you. Welcome to Dmitry Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u47	I ask you to pass the word to Bogdan Matkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, I'm just one of those reservists who first went to the front of the Maidan Self-Defense, and then there wasn't really a chance to form all the documents that would apply to the military, so they were going to form the reserve papers. And so many of my brothers today are disabled and have no opportunity and no right to be treated in military hospitals. Therefore, I am very grateful for the support of this bill. And as the previous reporter said, if possible, vote it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Semenchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u50	The self-help faction supports the bill and proposes to vote on it as a whole. Indeed, in 2014, the volunteers who went to protect the Family were a few of the Nachward battalions, they were not thinking about the benefits, they were not thinking about feeding the family, they were thinking about protecting the Family. And it's our duty to take care of it now. Therefore, I would like to vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u51	Lonely Andrew, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u52	Our faction no doubt supports this bill, because it is very sad that in the coalition trades for positions, among others in peripetia, in the desire of individual destructive forces to hold the elections as soon as possible, the war is over. We continue to see sad news that the better ones are giving their lives for Ukraine. And every bill that helps our fighters is a matter of honor for each and every one of us. Let's do something in this room that we won't be ashamed of before future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u53	Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Of course, the bill is correct, it needs to be adopted, and perhaps even this is one of those rare cases where I can even agree to the first reading and in general. But there is one important "but," to which I would like to pay attention to both the drafters of the bill and the rapporteurs, and I hope that you would still take that note into account and make the right changes. The point is that in order for this bill to work 100 percent, not, say, 60 percent to 70 percent, I think it's necessary to reduce the age of the accompanying person. The point is that today it's written in a bill that's a proposal to set limits at the age of 18 just to allow people who will accompany a military officer to a sanatorium during his stay and departure. Well, in fact, we have the right to work in legislation at 16 years of age, yes, people are absolutely, completely young people 16 years of age are absolutely adequate. If we reduce this price from 18 to 16 years old, it will greatly improve the ability to accompany military personnel to appropriate sanatoriums because of the order. From the age of 18 onward, people have more active lives, people have jobs, people have commitments. And this bulkhead of the population may not be enough to properly provide our military personnel. So I suggest that this age price be reduced from 18 years to 16 years. I ask you very much, please, to take this seriously and perhaps even if we miss this amendment immediately on the first reading and in general, then we certainly support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u55	Thank you. It's lazy. Turn on the mic, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u56	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. We've already talked about that the bill really needs to be adopted and supported, and the faction will accept it. But this is just one of a number of bills that has to solve the problems of volunteers, the problems of military personnel who have gone to protect our country and who have no special status in order to get their benefits. The problem of foreigners who are fighting and protecting our country and who are unable to obtain citizenship in our country is still unresolved. This bill has long been in place and needs to be adopted in order for foreigners to gain Ukrainian citizenship. And this applies more to foreigners from the Russian Federation, from Belarus, because they can't go back to their country because they're going to be persecuted there. And Ukraine has to accept heroes who have come to protect our nation and give them citizenship. Similarly, it is necessary to resolve the issues of volunteers who still cannot, even wounded volunteers who have not been formed into any military unit for some time, into no military formation, and who cannot become an ATO participant. This has not yet been prescribed in the Cabinet’s position or Kabmin’s position, nor has it been prescribed how they will receive it. The courts still refuse, and this issue needs to be settled by law. And that's why this bill today, which we're going to adopt, is just one of a number of bills that has to solve the issues of our military personnel in order to motivate us to go in the future to serve and protect our country. Because when the war began, there was no time to form properly, there was really no time to report certain documents. And today we need to settle all these issues, and if we have to, change legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Oleg Musei. It's not working. And the final talk in the discussion is Wolf Victor Ivanovich, the Radical Party. It's coming off. So now we have a closing word for the reporter. I'd like to ask Mr. Taras, if you'll excuse me. I see MPs in the room ready to vote first, second reading. Only one offer was made by Yuri Lewchenk, who is filming it. All right, it's coming off. There's no need for a closing word? None. Committee head, no need. So we're already going to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that a vote will take place. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's social protection laws that have suffered as a result of participation in the ATO and their families as a basis. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote on the basis. [[11:03:58]] For 215 It's not a coalition, society, it's a question of fighters who went straight from Midan to the front. And I want you to reject your political agenda when it comes to our heroes who saved Ukraine first in Maidan and then in ATO. I ask you to distinguish political things from matters of national importance and memory. I'll put it back on the table. I'm asking everyone to pay attention, go into the hall and take jobs. I propose to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's social protection laws, which have been affected by participation in the ATO and their families. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:05:10]] For 235 The decision to return is accepted. We've come back to this bill, I ask you to be careful, I'm now putting to the vote the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's Social Protection Laws for Reserves that have suffered as a result of participation in the ATO and their families (3497) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal please vote on the basis, please. [[11:05:52]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The Committee's proposal to accept as a basis and, as a whole, under the Rules, we have the right to do so if there is no objection in the room. I really think that this bill has a great deal of importance in both justice and the memory of those who have suffered in the ATO and, if there is no objection in the hall, I will put this bill in general. Is there no objection? Thank you. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's social protection laws, which have been affected by participation in the ATO and their families (number 3497) as a whole. Please, whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:07:02]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. (Please come to me.) Dear colleagues, a number of deputies who had a fraction in the morning, are asked to reregister. We're doing this. The rule is also designed to show potential in the hall. So I ask everyone to prepare for re-registration, re-registration. And I would like to ask the Council to include the registration of members of the People's Parliament in a plenary session. Please. [[11:08:03]] So it's registered in 367 deputies, the potential is high. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the next bill. The next is a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of State Debt, Guaranteeed by State Debt and Local Debt. As for taking effect, it's Bill 3677, and there's a report on the proposal for us to consider it in a simplified procedure. Anyone who supports the proposal to consider Bill 3677 as a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:09:32]] For a hundred and By exercising the right of a leader, I will. I didn't get the right number of votes. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u58	Mr. Vice-Speaker, honourable deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of the Enforcement of Offences with State-guaranteed Debt and Local Debt, relating to the Debt Operation. You all remember that last year we managed to restructure the government’s commercial debt of 22.6 billion, but the two issues remained problematic and unresolved. Question number 1 is the $3 billion Eurobonds that were due on December 20, 2015. Question number 2 is $140 million guaranteed by the State of the loans to stealtodore. We can't pay off these debts right now this year. At the same time, they remain a requirement for repayment, which also poses a risk to Eurobonds that have already been restructured. Our law, which was passed last year, allows, introduces a moratorium by June 2016. And today we ask you to make changes to this bill and to approve a very simple but very important change: cancel this temporary. It's a time limit and it's actually an extension of the moratorium. In view of the huge risks of lawsuits that you know have already begun, this will allow us to continue negotiations. And we hope to find understanding with our creditors about the restructuring of this debt under the terms proposed by the State of Ukraine. Please support this bill, which is supported by a professional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u59	Thank you. Oksana Sergiyevna, please stay in the rostrum, now we have a question for the reporter. If you have a question for the reporter, please sign up for the presentation. Please record. Victor Wolf, please. He's handing Oleg the can. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u60	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Last year you advocated a parliament that had a bargain for Ukraine, an agreement on debt restructuring. But we see that the cost of servicing these debts in the budget this year is higher than in the budget last year. Then I ask, where is the real restructuring? And why are you at the talks today with international partners, such as the International Monetary Fund, not just asking about the restructuring of Ukrainian debt, but about the write-off of some of these large debts, as many countries in the world are doing, particularly recently, France of Cuba has written down many of these examples. When will you really start defending Ukraine's interests rather than the International Monetary Fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u61	Thank you so much for asking. Both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Ukraine have been protecting Ukraine's sole interests by holding negotiations all last year, including with our external creditors. We are confident that the conditions that we have achieved are the best that we can achieve. Would we want better conditions? Yeah, and we did everything we could to do on other even better terms. We have managed to achieve the cancellation of a partial debt, and this year we have placed all of our debts in the public budget, usually because there is an increase in a certain course, there is an increase, including the sums that are set in the purses for the servicing of these debts. But in any case, today we ask you to give us the opportunity to extend the moratorium, it will strengthen our negotiating position further, and we will continue to negotiate all of these debts, as well as to improve the overall governance of the state's liquidity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u63	According to the bill, the service of government debt bonds is suspended. Question is, what's the deadline? Please give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u64	We're proposing that we just cancel the term, so it stops for an indefinite period before we deal with our creditors specifically on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u65	Thank you. Debtenko Alexander is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u66	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Markarov, I wanted to ask you two questions, but then three. First question. When Vladimirović asked you a question, he said "the term of suspension of external bonds obligations". So it's not a prolongation of the law -- you're a little bit wrong: intentionally or recklessly -- that's what it is. For what term will you suspend the commitments made by the State in the form of Minfin by the local government to service the bonds? Second question. Do you not think that voting for this bill is a form of blackmail to creditors? And question three. Do you not think that voting on this bill is a defolt in fact, recognition of defolt by the State at the legislative level?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u67	Thank you so much for asking. As to whether it's blackmail or not blackmail. In this case, we are trying to do everything possible to protect the interests of Ukraine. In case of non-continuation of the moratorium on. or the non-retribution of the date set by the law is June, already starting in June, we have once again an absolute obligation to pay these costs. We ask you to support the extension of the moratorium so that we do not have this commitment in 2016. We are confident that our negotiations will end with a positive restructuring. We are kindly asked to provide a tool for such negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u68	Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevna. You. Question time is complete. You can take your place. I invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Gordie's Valeria to the report. Andrija Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The point in this bill is that we've already passed the law that we've commissioned, authorized our government to restructure our external debt. And today the question is not that we're declaring defolt. The question today is that all of our creditors today have agreed to the terms of the restructuring, made the write-off of our external debt. To date, however, only one bondholder does not agree with the terms of the restructuring and cancellation of our external debt. This is about the Russian Federation. So when we passed this law in this room, it was a condition that this law would be in force by June 1, 2016. And that's why the Russian Federation sees us today. The law is running out of time, it's not going to these terms of restructuring, and so it requires us to pay off our debts. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has agreed to the adoption of this bill as a whole and recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole as a law. We can't stop him today. Because if we don't accept it, we have a corresponding obligation since June 1st to pay off the entire debt, including the aggressor country. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u70	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Anyone who wishes to ask a question to a co-reporter, please sign up for the address. Please record. Andrew Galchenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u72	Thank you for the opportunity. Here's what Mr. Companion said about the Russian Federation being involved, our common enemy, yes, as you think. And I think you haven't read the text of the bill at all, because it's not about restructuring the debt of that portfolio that went through this summer. What's the point of the bill? The bill proposes to repeal the Law on the Specificities of Rights Transactions, not until July 16, but for an indefinite period. What does this bill give us? They are given the right of the Cabinet of Ministers or local government authorities to decide to suspend the service of bonds. And they were aired in 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 years old, the bonds of the Ukrainian city council. What's the Russian Federation doing here, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u73	My fellow Members, I understand that it is very convenient for you to act as a lawyer for this situation and not vote in favour of a bill that gives the government the right to bring all creditors to this state, that we will adopt a law that will be followed by restructuring. Today this particular creditor, who is the holder of the bonds, yes, he is not directly the holder of the bonds, and you know that very well, better, probably for all of us. But today this very creditor does not want to take our initiatives to restructure the cancellation of part of the debt. That's it. That's why your right not to support it. But I am addressing the entire Parliament, we have to vote it today. If we don't vote on it, there's going to be a moment where we have to pay our debts to that country that's already occupied part of the territory. If you have any details. You can go to Minfin, he'll explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u74	Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Bill 3677 our faction will support and propose to vote in favour of the committee's decision to support it as a whole. The bill is important enough and cannot be delayed with its adoption. So I urge everyone to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u76	Thank you. There's one last recording, Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u78	On the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I'm talking about the first reporter, the second reporter. Dear colleagues, well, be patient and familiar with the laws you report from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the country's supreme legislative body. And I want to tell you that this law applies, first of all, to the aspects of the commission of public debt; second, to the guaranteed state of debt; and third, to the local debt. I'm asking for an indicator so everyone understands that reporters don't know this law. Your Honor, please tell me what local debts apply to this law. Thank you for the meaningful and specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u80	First. Including the Kyiv City Council, the loan. First. The other one. The point is today that these commitments are already restructured. But now it's about extending the term of the law so that we can restructure the debt of the aggressor country. In front of the aggressor country. Thank you. Finally, I would like to ask you to support this bill as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u81	Thank you. All those who wanted to know the dates of the questions had already come forward. You had the opportunity to ask both the previous reporter and the co-reporter. And I ask you, Andrew Anatolyovich, to take your place. There will be a chance to speak now, the procedure is complete. Now we have statements from factions. And I ask all those who wish to express their position from the faction to sign up for the performance. Please. Oleg Barn from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u82	I propose that all the deputies vote in favour of the project in order to settle the financial activity and registration in the occupied areas accordingly. Because unfortunately, for the time being, our citizens are suffering from these unregulated relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u83	Thank you. Husak Vladimir Georgievicz of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Right now, during the portfolio division and the formation of a new coalition, the nomination of the Prime Minister here "noisy" wants to adopt, so inconspicuously, one bill -- 3677 -- with a sufficiently harmless such name and enough of such seemingly "cosmetic" rights. What's the proposal? The bill proposes to repeal the rule by which the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of Public Debt Transactions guaranteed by State Debt and Local Debt should be limited. Under this law, the State has, in fact, granted powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the authorities of local self-government unilaterally to suspend the operation of external loans bonds, public external loans bonds, local external loans bonds, eurobonds, which have been simulated by various territorial communities and which were issued in 2005, 2006, 2007, in 2010, 11, 12, 13 years by the Kiev Mountains, which have been issued. What does that mean? In fact, this means the result of the activities of the current authority, which essentially means defolt. One speaker said that this was not a default; it was a restructuring. If the speaker does not know the basis of the economic theory, the default is a unilateral refusal to fulfil obligations under external or internal borrowings irrespective of what his final objective is, either to continue negotiations with creditors, either to pay a specific fee or not to pay a specific fee on them. Voting on the bill is a defolta State's actual recognition of the default, both on external government borrowing and on external borrowing, which has been attracted by local government authorities. The adoption of this law is a form of blackmail, because, if creditors have no role here, the Russian Federation, or not the Russian Federation, cannot be the holder of the Kiev City Eurobonds, the Russian Federation cannot be the holder of the Eurobonds “UkroAutoDor”. These are private creditors who have invested in foreign currency, because this is an external loan that has contributed this foreign currency to Ukraine's economy, and now Ukraine unilaterally, through the people's deputies and the Government that introduced the bill, the deputies who will vote in favour of the bill unilaterally refuse to comply with those obligations. Why? On the one hand, they say that let's move faster to a blind coalition so that the IMF can lend us credit, and on the other hand they simply refuse unilaterally to pay off the debts that have ever been incurred. You don't have to hang my ears. This is not about the Russian Federation, it is not necessary to see an aggressor here. They are private investors, perhaps even the individuals who bought those bonds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party passes the word Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u87	Thank you. Your Honor, the voter! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction will support this bill, but at the same time, I want to stress that today we have a real, real, deep restructuring of government debt. Today we have to conduct government negotiations with international non-commercial lenders, which is to write down a substantial part of the external sovereign and guaranteed state debt. The cost of cheating on the Greeks was much higher than the costs we are talking about today. The point is that we have to release tens and tens of billions of dollars in the government budget so that the public debt service costs fall in comparison to what we had yesterday. And these are the costs we're going to have to focus on the development of high-tech manufacturing. See: Today is Aviation and Space Day. What is the government doing today to support these areas, to support Ukrainian space, to support Ukrainian aviation? "The Northman" at the border of the station. We have to invest in it, develop high-tech production. What is being done today to develop the food industry, to recycle the raw materials that our farmers produce? That's where we have to direct the cost of creating the infrastructure, the cost of crediting the food processing industry. That's what we have to do in every field. So the first task is to carry out a real restructuring of government debt. Poland cheated 50 percent, Greece cheated 50 percent -- that's ten to ten billion dollars in the United States, and there was no military aggression against them. What did they do to Ukraine? A few billion dollars and additional commitments were made to provide a significant share of GDP growth. These are not just conditions, these are not conditions that are favourable to Ukraine. Therefore, the Radical Party faction insists that one of the major elements of State economic and financial policy be the real restructuring of government debt by writing down a large part of it so that it will lead to a substantial reduction in public debt service expenditure in Ukraine's state budget, and these costs will be directed towards the development of Ukrainian industry, to support small and medium-sized business, to the provision of lost loans, to the creation of jobs, to those who are creating new productions today. Because if we don't, we will remain a raw colony with huge debts that we are today. We need to make a radical change in this situation. And it's not a matter of politics, it's a question of the economy, the survival and the success of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u88	Thank you. So all those desiring the faction came out. From the Peter Dust Block, Victor Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u89	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! First of all, I want to say that this bill does not specifically address the issue of debt cancellation. We're not discussing what was the subject of the Supreme Council's decision a few months ago. This is about the right to cheat. But whatever you call that right, it has one smelly definition. I don't even want to use that word. Regardless of what you call it, the word means default. As a prepared law, he is. Takes quite a few serious risks. Why? We understand the reasons for this law and there are reasons for adoption. When a restructuring decision was made, this package did not involve a 3 billion - dollar restructuring of its liabilities to the Russian Federation. And I say, and this is my position, which, unfortunately, not everyone shares that this is a private location. It wasn't an official loan, it was a private facility that wasn't made under Ukrainian legislation, like Eurobonds, a guide to Eurobonds that were going to be restructured. But they're not part of restructuring. Therefore, we must help the government to resolve the issues on which the trial is proceeding. But I'm concerned that in a version where there's no expiration date for this law, any borrowing, including new borrowing, is a very bad signal. So my suggestion: let the government here confirm and give its opinion or date, set a date for the act of law. For example, this law is in force by the end of 2018, if necessary, more. If we have to, I think there will be enough votes in Parliament to keep this law going. And second, what is the need to extend the law to local borrowing? You know very well that the dominant ideology of Ukraine is populism. Anarchism is added to this second dominant ideology. If we start a local budget parade, a waiver of commitments, we can get unpleasant surprises. So I would ask Minfin to agree with these two local loans and the second one on the definition of the time limit for this law. The term must be stated in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u90	Thank you. So all those desiring the factions came out. Now, speak to the national MPs. Dear colleagues, now the national MPs who want to speak, please sign up for the speech. Please. Yuri Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u91	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's previous statement on the status of this law and the status of the debt covered by this bill and, of course, there are questions about the local budgets. But by the way, I want to focus on a more important point, it's actually on the state debt situation of Ukraine and the absence of a strategy to address this issue and what the behaviour of the new government will be in relation to Ukraine's national debt. Because today, alongside social security and defence spending, public debt service costs are the most important costs of the state budget. And the strategy of the new government should be to address this issue first. This bill is an additional tool primarily to address this issue with a Russian so-called debt. But in addition, I am convinced that the new government that we will choose in the coming days must take a more stringent position with international creditors, with the International Monetary Fund on Ukraine's interests both in terms of borrowing and in terms of servicing Ukraine's external government debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Self-Help faction will unreservedly support the bill, provided that we really take into account the second reading of the comments that Mr. Pinzenic made, namely those relating to borrowing at the local level. Why is it so important to consider? Because you and I understand very well that it's the debt that you borrow at the local level that allows you to finance large infrastructures, including projects. If we set a completely incomprehensible date for the repayment of these debts today, the next step will be the substantial increase in these financial costs, if and when local authorities will want to involve this money. That's the first one. The other one. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that we still don't have an open tool with you to analyze the use of external borrowing. We don't know where the money is going, what projects, what economic impact they have. We want to see, for example, where the next tranche of the IMF will be sent and where the money from the past tranches, how they were used, what effect they had on people. So once again, in addition to dealing with the question of debt restructuring, we also have with you as deputies to carry out the basic task, to exercise control, to control the government, to control the borrowings, to deal with the money we're borrowing from the outside, so that they have a positive effect on people, and not to put burdens on our children and grandchildren that they can't carry on, and that's going to have a zero effect on them. So once again, I want to take this opportunity and say, let's control together the money that we as a nation share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Andrew Galchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u96	Thank you. Last time I spoke Russian, but who doesn't understand Russian, I'm going to speak Ukrainian. And I want to do simple things about this bill. The bill is unprecedented in the history of the country, it is so, it is so true. Since Ukraine has for the first time refused to do so, it is more accurate to suspend the use of external borrowing in a unilateral manner in order to strengthen its negotiating positions. What, though, will result from the adoption of the bill? Of course, the adoption of this bill will result in the discrediting of our country’s credit rating. Who is the next time the local self-governance authorities issue local external loans, or at the time of the issue of the next Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, when issuing foreign government bonds, who will invest in the country other than the IMF? Probably nobody. As far as IMF is concerned. We're fully implementing the IMF's terms to get a new tranche. Why are we building our position like this with other creditors? I realize that those who hold bonds of foreign government lending, of the external local loan that they hold, of the Eurobonds that broadcast local government organs, are not as influential as the International Monetary Fund. But how do we deal with them? In fact, we're talking cynically about abuse of the powers given to us that the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions, namely, enforcement in our country, will not apply either to the State or to the local self-government that broadcast the observed external borrowings. Not here. This is where the previous report said that we have very little transparency, transparency of the external financial instrument. But it's not about transparency, it's about the borrower's attitude towards the creditor. If the debtor ignores the creditor and puts it in a position where the creditor has to go against the previous arrangements, it is no longer a matter of transparency in the placement of these instruments, it is a question of the ability of the next State to borrow foreign, in particular the cost of balancing the gold currency, such as the reserve, to attract these investments to the country. This discredit will actually put a dot in our country’s ability to attract funds in the future. And we will not be treated as a reliable partner. And you can't talk about any investment attractiveness after this bill is passed, no matter how well we talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u97	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u98	Thank you. The country's distinguished national MPs, honourable colleagues, are the government's bill. And perhaps today would be appropriate, knowing that the main event in which he is living today. What our country is looking forward to today is a change of government, a change of head of government. There may be a point to our doing more responsiblely with such important bills. Because this law, in my opinion, refers to a more already new government that will enter and become effective, maybe today, maybe this week, let's see how it folds. Dear colleagues, and I would very much like to take this bill into account, after all, what Victor Mikhailovich said. I'm sorry. There can be no limit to giving this law in general, this law must be final by 2018, if we are already voting on it. Because if we now adopt a law that Ukraine in general refuses to comply with its debt obligations, I wonder under what conditions our country will then receive new borrowings and new borrowings will be needed for the economy. That's what's important. Look, if we're adopting such laws, we should still remember that today, and it sounded like we're celebrating the World Air and Space Day today. And I would very much like the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mention today the problems that exist in the South Bank. Today, Ukraine, thanks to the government of Yatsenuk, has actually lost its space sector. And the desire for a new government that will be in Ukraine or that you will not, after all, point out that Ukraine was a space country. And all this active power did is that for two years of the Yatsenuk government we stopped being like that, we stopped being spacey, we stopped being an aviation country. And I'm talking to the workers in this area. I welcome all Ukrainian citizens who have a bearing on the aviation, the space industry, and welcome them to this holiday. And I would very much like to see a government in Ukraine that will look to the future economic perspective and to restore such an important field for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u99	Andrew Gordjeev gives the word Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to withdraw the warning I made in my previous speech. The first warning that this document, this law, will apply to new borrowings. No, it's not. We had conversations and consultations with the Ministry of Finance, and we looked at the documents. The point is, in the basic law, we have a confirmed list of contracts that. or a list of loans that are subject to restructuring. Since we are making changes to this law, this law applies exclusively to those borrowings that were in the basic law. Since the vast majority of loans have been restructured, except for the Russian loan you know, even without limitation, the law will extend exclusively to those loans that have not been restructured. In this regard, therefore, I urge my colleague to vote in favour of the law on the basis and generally in the version prepared by the Ministry of Finance. I ask everyone to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Vladimir Gooseka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, once again we would like to emphasise that voting in favour of this law is a vote in favour of Ukraine's default. And that's why we urge this law not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u103	Debenkov has already spoken. And that's why I'm taking the word of Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u104	The Self-Help faction supports the bill. We're ready to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u105	Thank you. In this way, all those who wanted to speak with the deputies made their presentations. But we do have the final word of the reporter, the co-rapporteur. And I'll give you three minutes for the closing statement, please, Markar Oksana Sergiyevna. Turn on the microphone. It is possible from the bed of the Presidium, the beds of the government. Please, three minutes. Please, a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to confirm that today we are proposing to you only to adopt amendments to the law, the basic law that you passed on May 19, 2015. This law, which was adopted almost a year ago, sets a clear perimeter for the debt operation and clearly indicates which debt papers were subject to restructuring. Once again, the whole perimeter remains unrestructed with only two RDPs, as well as the commitment of Autodor, which is held by one Russian state bank. Therefore, there is no risk of extending to other new commitments. Second question about the local. The Kiev debt that was included in the parameter is now restructured, so it does not fall under this action. The third is about investment attractiveness. After our debt operation, virtually all agencies increased Ukraine’s ratings. Therefore, a great request to all the national deputies: to vote in favour of the bill, which exclusively removes the time limit for a moratorium on the specific three obligations that have remained unrestructed, and most of which, you know, we already have a trial. It's a huge risk to the budget. A request for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u107	Thank you. So we finished our consideration of the bill. And I ask the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. A vote will take place in a minute. And I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the workplace and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? All the factions came in and took their seats? Please come into the hall, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of the Enforcement of State Debt and Local Debt (No. 3677) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote in favour of base 3677, please. [[11:52:30.]] For 223 Guys, I'm going to put you back once. If there is no return, the bill will be rejected. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I'm asking you to come into the hall. So whoever supports the proposal made by the national MPs to go back to draft Law 3677, please vote. I would like to support you on your return to Bill 3677. Please vote. [[11:53:44]] For 245 The decision to return is made. So you're in the hall? Again, after returning the proposal to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State-guaranteed Debt and Local Debt (No. 3677). Whoever supports this proposal on the basis, please vote. Please vote. [[11:54:40]] For 247 The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. There are no warnings, and in the hall, I see no warnings, I'm proposing to vote on the 3677 draft Law as a whole. Who supports this proposal, 3677 in general, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. For the committee's offer, please. [[11:55:27]] For 242 Decision taken. Welcome to the Ministry, and welcome to the committee for the good and good work done on this bill. Dear colleagues! According to the Rules we have three minutes before recess, we will not be able to consider any of the bills. Right after the break, we'll continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the next 12 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask all the deputies to enter the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are continuing our difficult work. Please. Dear colleagues, ready to work? I don't see enthusiasm. Dear colleagues, our first reading chapter began with Bill 3478, but unfortunately the reporter was not in the room at that time. There's a reporter in the room right now. That is why I am announcing a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (as regards the escorting of military personnel while continuing treatment at sanatoriums) (3478). There is an offer from the authors of the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure, but the hall must make its weighty responsible decision on this matter. I am voting on the motion to consider Bill 3478 as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:34:29]] For-80 The decision is not made. I didn't support the committee's proposal. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, last week the whole world has actually celebrated and celebrated World Health Day, and I very much hope that today the Supreme Council will be adopted and voted, either, half of the 15 laws prepared by the Health Committee to vote in the session room. With regard to Law 3478, the purpose of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is to restore the health of injured and injured military personnel during an anti-terrorist operation, following their hospital treatment in military hospitals. From the point of view of the psychological rehabilitation of each fighter, it is extremely important for the State to allow him and his family to stay in the hospital. This allows, rather, to shift the clock’s arrows from military territory to war territory to the territory of your home, your family, and to feel care. In connection with East Ukraine’s antiterrorist operation, a large part of the wounded and injured military personnel, after being treated permanently in military hospitals, need further rehabilitation treatment and foreign assistance, both physical and psychological. According to our mental rehabilitation experts, up to 95 percent of the fighters are in need of physical rehabilitation, up to 60 percent of the fighters. The presence of an accompanying person, especially close relatives, will also help to care for the patient, create a more favorable psychological and emotional climate, and contribute to the effective recovery of a significant category of individuals. The draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is designed to restore the health of injured and injured military personnel after their permanent treatment in military hospitals. The bill proposes to amend article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families to grant the right to persons accompanied by a military official who is sent to a sanatorium to continue his treatment, to receive a free travel without the right to treatment for the purpose of providing assistance to such a military officer of his immediate, related, or close family. The adoption of the draft law will not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine, as the implementation of the bill is possible within the limits of the costs foreseen in the State budget for medical treatment, rehabilitation and sanitation of the special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, military veterans and members of their families, war veterans and the provision of anti-terrorist treatment to the victims. I would like to ask you to support Bill 3478. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues who have a question to the rapporteur, please record for the presentation. Please. Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support this bill not only as a basis, but in fact, considering that it is extremely relevant and extremely important and decides this social part, that fighters, which often do. injured, severely injured, need rehabilitation, as well as those in need of foreign care, today the issue is not settled and members of their family can not only physically accompany but also accompany them in the treatment plan. Therefore, not only on the ground but also on the whole. That's why I have an offer for you and a big request.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u112	Thank you. I understand it's not a question, it's a speech. I'd like a word with Roman Semensi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to clarify the right of military officials to continue their treatment in sanatoriums just after hospital treatment, as well as those who accompany a military service officer who is sent to a sanatorium to continue treatment after hospital treatment. This is an important stage, it is rehabilitation that takes place in sanatoriums and that mechanism that exists in the current legislation of Ukraine is not effective, so this bill is extremely important. The bill also grants the right to travel on a free basis and also establishes that a person who escorts a military official to a sanatorium cannot be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u115	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u116	That a person accompanying a military officer cannot be an invalid of the first group and a person who has not reached the age of 18. I mean, there must be a person who can really help a military officer in all the questions he needs. That's why we also support the Self-Help faction will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you what to do. He that is willing to speak will be able to do so. We're looking at a full-procedure bill. There will also be acts by the factions, and acts by the deputies. This chapter is a question to the rapporteur. You limit yourself to that in time, for it takes three minutes to perform, and only one minute to ask. I'm simply asking to be more attentive to the national deputies of Ukraine. Now it's Romanova, please Anna Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u118	As my colleague, Irina Sisoyenko, said, "The Self-Help Union, of course, supports this bill. As far as I know, in 2015 there are funds that have been channelled to ATO participants, but they haven't been used. And especially as an argument why we should vote in favour of this law, because the ATOs refuse to go on vacation because there is no accompanying person. Then I have a question to Olga: is this bill going to be taken, as we understand it, is this the number of unused travels, especially because there are no accompanying persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. In fact, 50 million dollars, which were allocated to psychological rehabilitation last year, were used only a little more than half of that money. The rest of the money has actually returned to the budget. I don't think this law is going to solve this problem completely because it's organizational. And it is related to the fact that military hospitals do not target rehabilitation. But we're also struggling with this: we control, in which area and how many soldiers are going to rehabilitate, and we're actually trying on different sides to solve this issue. But part of the cost will certainly be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u120	Thank you, Olga Vadimovna. Question time's up. Please take your place. And to my co-report, I invite a representative of the National Security and Defence Committee of Winnick. Please, Mrs. Olga, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the National Security and Defence Committee has considered the Bill of the Mantis and other authors, including myself, that we really need to address the issue of providing our ATOs with a right to sanatorium treatment in the context of those who accompany them. Because today many ATOshniks refuse this right granted by the State because, given the injuries they receive, sometimes they are disabled, they cannot get to these appropriate sanatoriums on their own. At the same time, Ukraine is in a difficult economic situation, and any accompanying person should pay for, perhaps, sanitation, where he is not actually being treated, but only as an accompanying person. So this really needs an immediate settlement, an immediate solution, because the responsibility of the state for our defence is not only the support of the army, it is also the support of those who have suffered as a result of their courageous protection of our borders. That's why we support this bill, we propose to vote on the basis. At the same time, there's nothing complicated here, and we can take it as a whole, because it doesn't really need any additional expenditure from the budget, the corresponding costs are already foreseen, they're not fully used. Hence, it is certainly possible at least to accommodate accompanying persons in the sanatoriums, and the matter has been settled. The only thing is, we don't see many deputies in the hall today. I understand that the issues of coalition, the new government, are important. Yet it is no reason for the deputies to be absent in the session room, not to vote so important to our state, for our defenses. So I'd like to go to all the deputies who are present today in the hall, and they're in the towers, and I'd like to go back and find the opportunity to get the required number of votes to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, if there are no such number of votes, I would like to refer to the chairman at the Supreme Council meeting, that if we don't see the necessary number of technical reasons for the votes today in the Chamber, it is a matter to discuss, but not to vote and move it, perhaps later, there in an hour or two, when the national MPs are already gathered in the Hall, so that we do not, under the Rules, fail this legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u122	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, please. Mr. John, return to the rostrum, please. Dear colleagues who have a question for the rapporteur, please sign up for the presentation. Please. Oleg Musei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me if the cost of this question has been calculated at all. I realize that in the state budget, the funds that are put on the trip are constant and can be distributed among relatives or escorts, those who will help our fighters. And if there's any calculation of how much there is in the budget, for example, next year we'd need additional funds and that we might need organizationally to accept that this is not a once-in-a-year procedure this year, but on a permanent basis, with these funds included in the state budget. Are there any calculations?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u124	You know, the only thing that we need to regulate at the level of regulations, at the level of, I hope, the newly created Cabinet of Ministers, is how do we implement the law if this project becomes a law that escorts can get a trip without the right to treatment. So you have to clearly divide the cost of living, eating, staying, and other medical expenses. This is the only thing that needs to be settled in this context. But it is certainly not the authority of the Supreme Council as the country’s supreme legislative body to enter into such details. This is still the mandate of the executive branch, which I hope we will see or see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u125	Thank you. Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u126	Understanding this situation with budgetary revenues, perhaps by the end of the year it would be advisable to introduce a rule in this law that the accompanying one would be really free to go to the treatment facility of a military officer in a medical facility is sufficient staff that could already be properly served so as not to spend any extra money on accompanying persons, and these costs would be added to the treatment of the wounded military personnel themselves. Well, at least if it's a requirement, or if it's better for an injured military officer who's in charge of treatment, if there's not enough medical personnel who can handle it, maybe there's some partial food compensation that might be available to accompany and compensate for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u127	You know, mate, I generally agree with you that some of the rules of this bill need clarification. For example, clarification needs to be made, for example, not clearly stated or transportation is compensated, and travel is not actually compensated by budget or travel. Likewise, I agree with you that it takes a separate discussion, not in the session room, but at the committee level, how does a person really just have to accompany them to the sanatorium, or together, while being injured all the time in the sanatorium, stay with them and then come back together. But this is the discussion I'm proposing, and it's worth having on the committee level. And if you have suggestions and thoughts, you can make them as amendments. Or simply visit the National Security and Defence Committee, which will consider this bill in its next session if it is adopted today as a basis. So let me actually stress that we're proposing to vote on it as a basis. And in preparing for the second reading, you can talk about and settle what you say. Thank you for your observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u128	Thank you. And the last question is: Fish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u129	Ivan Ribak, 202nd constituency, Cherniewec district. I have such a clear question. In an explanatory note to this bill, which was submitted on 13 November last year, data from the state budget of 1 billion 192 million 900 thousand for the financing of the measures. Please tell me, since this bill was submitted last year and, accordingly, last year it wasn't considered, it wasn't accepted, and you're referring to the very question that you can allocate money to the accompanying persons, that is, do you have any information on how much money is left out of this billion 193 million in the state budget, which has been saved as you rely on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u130	Indeed, this idea has the right to life that Ukraine’s State Budget Act is in effect until the end of the relevant budget period. At the same time, there are other thoughts. But in any bill that we're proposing, there's a Final Position, which obliges the Cabinet of Ministers within one month to regulate, regulate, comply with legislative legislation in accordance with the requirements of this law. I'm pretty sure that's a long way from the $2 billion you've called, because that's the total amount of social protection, the rehabilitation of military personnel. I would also like to point out that, according to the budget code in force at the level of the expenditure of the budget manager, it is possible to transfer funds from the programme to the programme by decision of the budget committee exclusively. So there are many mechanisms today that the Cabinet of Ministers can use to ensure the implementation of this legal and regulatory act if it is accepted by the Supreme Council as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Question time's up. Now come out of the factions. Dear colleagues, representatives of the factions who wish to speak, I ask you to sign up for the performance, please. Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u132	Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. We will definitely support this bill. The boys who come back from an advanced injury, who need rehabilitation, I think they're really going to get it first when there's a person close to them, who's going to help go through this stage of recovery and they're going to be right next to him. That's why we're calling for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Makarian, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u134	We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u135	Thank you for the argument. Corchin Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! This bill is very simple. I have a feeling for the committee that you didn't understand what it was about. As one of the co-authors of this bill, I find that this is about those seriously injured and seriously injured military personnel who were treated permanently in hospitals after being sent to sanatorium. Those who are shown escorts are the sleeping boys, the necks, they're accompanied by family members -- all of them. It's actually out of two phrases the whole bill, there's no extraordinary budgeting. Because last year we didn't use you to understand the order of more than 10 percent of the budget funds involved. This is not about treating family members; it is about accompanying and living, treating only our military personnel. So this allows our guys, who are partially incompetent, who are now partially paralyzed to go with their family. Because at the moment, the volunteers are raising money for them to be near the seriously injured or seriously injured fighters after the hospital. The whole point of the bill. I'm asking him to support his second reading, and as a co-author, I'm going to file another application to extend that those who can accompany seriously injured and traumatized military personnel not from the age of 18 but from the age of 16 could accompany their relatives, our heroes. In fact, if it wasn't for that remark, the only thing I've heard from the deputies right now could even be voted on as a whole. And so we ask you in the first reading to support and to prepare for the second reading, because we now have 2.5 thousand of our boys with disabilities who need that kind of treatment. And now we're not reaching out to them. And we have to do this. Only. This applies only to the seriously injured. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you're about to speak with the national MPs. From the factions, I understand, all those who wanted to speak, right? I'd like you to sign up for a statement by the National Deputies. Please. Bogdan Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u138	You know, colleagues, this bill clearly needs to be supported. And I would like this bill to be supported as a whole. But the point of his support is different: Our boys, our brothers, who come home and can't go to the hospital themselves, they need that help, that support of the family. And it would be most appropriate for their immediate family to be with them. So I ask you to support our boys, their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u139	Thank you. Andrew Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u140	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Again and again, unfortunately, both in this room and in the Cabin, and in the President's Administration, debarring positions, contemplating their political future, trading with the IMF, trading with the Moscows through the mine process, forget about the most important thing that's going on in the war. And each of us will be held accountable sooner or later if we do not protect those who are protecting us today on the front with you. And, no doubt, Mrs. Oksan Korchinsky's law and Mrs. Olga the Mantis, which provides for the continued treatment of our heroes in sanatoriums after hospital treatment, I can't help but say what's really going on with the sanatorium complex right now. In all of Plainland, think about how many sanatoriums are left for the entire area. One, one sanatorium across the area is the Red Calina sanatorium in the Plain region. Here, a colleague of Dechtirczuk approached the special commission on privatization, where I work. We voted on the commission to ask Kabmin to exclude the Red Calina sanatorium from the list of objects for the privatization of point "in" in 2016. Because if you imagine what some fantasists say, put it on auction and honestly sell it, it's like an infrastructure sanatorium that's not interesting, sell it at auction because the budget has to be filled with holes, because the money goes into the offshore. It ends with 26 hectares of land being cut down on a cottage by a red kalina sanatorium, cutting off another one of the last sanatoriums left in the Plainland, where, including war heroes, they could be rehabilitated if you support this law, and it's our only equal sanatorium they want to destroy. So I urge the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately exclude the Red Calina sanatorium from the privatization of the "in" point in 2016, and you, dear colleagues, no doubt support this law. To support this law is an anti-Ukrainian position, it's an anti-government position, it's a position of contempt for those who, every day, sleep in blinds, risking their lives, health and freedom, protect us with you. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Ivan Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u142	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, after a sufficiently broad discussion of the bill, there is a logical question whether or not to put the bill to the vote as a whole. Because we all understand perfectly that this bill is really necessary, and to delay just the time after its adoption, I think it's useless. The minor details that coauthors have just pointed out that it is possible to reduce the age of those who will accompany can be further worked out in the future. But now the bill is really important. And I propose that it be put to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the position of the previous speaker and address the presiding officer at the meeting so that we can clearly place him in general, but with one technical actually correcting that Mrs. Korchinska said. If he supports the committee, Mr. Winnick, and the authors to change only one digit: 18 by 16. And that's it, you don't need anything anymore. If we can change the number 18 by 16, in the second reading, we are absolutely ready to accept it in the second reading and in general. So I'm going to have to make a suggestion that the stenographer should be able to change this technical correction. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u145	Thank you. I fully support your offer. And I'm making a return offer. Now we're going to have the last speaker. I very much ask you to maximize the mobilization of people in the hall from each faction, and from your faction in particular so that we do not put the bill at risk. I ask all the heads of factions and factions to invite deputies into the hall, because in a few minutes there will be a vote. Now I give Oleg Barney the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, yes, our duty is to help those who have lost their health, to treat the wounded who have protected our homeland. We must be supportive of the bill. And this moment, which is severe with the help of close families, where they're accompanied by more or less comfortable access to treatment or rehabilitation sites, it's very humane and very orderly to be on the side of the state. In addition, medical facilities have sufficient medical personnel directly involved in the care, care, or movement of such patients. So I think it's a difficult time for the state to focus more on and more on the wounded fighters who need immediate treatment, who need prosthetics, who need terrible money, because the costs that will be spent on the beds and nutrition of healthy people, but who are supposed to serve injured people in rehabilitation or treatments, I think will be underexpenditure. And the beds will be occupied by perfectly healthy people. Instead, more can be done to treat and rehabilitate those who need treatment and do not need to assume the responsibilities of medical personnel to those who do not have adequate qualifications and who are not authorized to do so. We need to put order in those sanatoriums, medical institutions, rehabilitation centres, so that health workers can do their job properly and do it in accordance with the law, and above all, to help the military personnel who protected them, like the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Is there a need for a closing word? Reporter, Mrs. Ola, Mrs. Ola the Mantis, is there a need for a closing word? None. The committee, Vinnik, is there a need for a closing word? If necessary, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, you know, I think this discussion is inappropriate right now. In fact, a sanatorium, it's not a medical facility, it's not such a professional level, we understand that a sanatorium based on its essence, it really needs a certain person who will accompany an injured fighter, who will go into procedures or just be in some environmentally friendly environment to make him quickly rehabilitated from the injuries he's suffered. The second question. Well, Your Honor, that's not the money we're discussing with you right now. What kind of money are we discussing? The budget save or not save? That's all conjecture. We have ordinary people waiting today for their relatives, their friends, to protect the country, to be able to get proper, secure, guaranteed by the Constitution, the State of Sanitary Treatment, Sanitary Treatment, Rehabilitation. We guaranteed, we promised when we went to the elections. Let's actually vote on the basis and on the whole. Well, look, if there's any comments, let's get the Cabinet of Ministers back on track. He has the possibility of legal and regulatory regulations and many things to regulate. Including the questions that my colleague Barna points out. We cannot cynically disrupt the adoption of this law in general today. Let's focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u149	Thank you. One of the writers, Olga Vadimovna, is invited to the conclusion. This is the last performance. I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall, the factions, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council. And I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Olga Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that Law 3478, apart from the possibility of psychological rehabilitation with someone who loves you, gives you a sense of justice. A sense of justice to those family members who were waiting for their husbands, sons, mothers, those wives, those daughters to be with their Fatherly Protector and to give him the support he really needs. Sadly, our veterans drink very often in the company of their brothers. And the accompanying person, in the form of a woman, a wife, a child, or a mother, is actually the very important stabilizer that stabilizes not only physical status but also psychological. I thank you all very much for your support. I hope that the war will soon end, and in fact we will be able, together with our fighters and their families, to build up our state justly. Please support Law 3478 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u151	Thank you. So we've completed the discussion of this bill and we can go to the vote. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs, an extremely important bill. I don't think anyone would want to know that his vote will not be submitted for this bill. So please pay more attention, please, to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm trying not to name names. Mustafa, we're taking up jobs. It's really important, I'm sorry. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for escorting military personnel while continuing treatment at sanatoriums) (No.3478) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please vote. [[13:10:37]] For 270. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. I want to tell you, the committee recommends that we adopt a bill as a whole, with an amendment that was announced by Musia for the transcript during his speech, that we change the age of 18 to 16. A similar proposal was made by Yuri Lewchenko in discussing the previous bill. And if there's no warning in the room that I'm going to put in a second reading with this amendment, I'm going to do it right now. There's no objection in the hall? I won't. Thank you. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, with the amendment by Oleg Musei, to change the age from 18 to 16 years in general. 3478 as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[13:11:53]] For 269 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors' team. Welcome to the committee for a good and quality job. Let's move on to the next draft from chapter "First Reading." The next bill we have is the draft Act amending the Law on Temporary Measures for the Implementation of the ATO (for the uninterrupted activities of local self-government bodies). I was approached by a representative of the Halasyuk Committee and asked that we consider the bill as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, the proposal by Halasyuk, please vote. So the proposal for a simplified procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[13:12:55]] For 175 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenović. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u152	The distinguished national deputies, local self-government authorities and the Lugansk and Donetsk region's enterprises from January 1st have found themselves in a situation which, in connection with the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation, has led to the blocking of all registration activities in these two areas. In December 2015, according to the aforementioned law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a list of locations in which anti-terrorist operations have been carried out in which all areas of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions have entered. This situation has led to the total blocking of local self - government after local elections, since no registration is allowed, and it is thus impossible to re-register new leaders or register new measures. In addition, all land rents and rents have been suspended. Thus, a number of deputies have drafted a bill amending this law, which amends a number of articles of the law. And it's suggested that this law amends temporary measures for the duration of an anti-terror operation to allow for the unlocking of registration. Besides, I'd like to point out that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u153	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u154	In addition, we would like to point out that this bill should be implemented after the first reading of the reduced procedure, and this would be able to quickly unlock the situation that has arisen in these two areas. Because today many, especially utilities, cannot actually work because there are no managers who are not registered simply.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u155	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u156	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the draft law number, registration number 4048. I would like to report that its purpose is to review the provisions of the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATO, through editorial changes to paragraph 3 of the article. Article 4, paragraph 3, on the prohibition of the change in the direction of legal persons, the composition of their founders and the period during which the anti-terrorist operation is conducted, the location of which is the territory where the local elections under the new law have already taken place. Dear colleague Kurilo rightly noted that without this law, the powers of executive organs of local self - government, including the reorganization of municipal enterprises, are effectively blocked today. In view of this, the national deputies, members of the committee, after considering the bill, agreed on the need to settle matters of state registration, I stress, of public law. At the same time, in the course of the discussion, it was pointed out that it was unacceptable to deprive private property subjects of their right to free themselves from payment, land, and rent payments of state and municipal property. So this is how we propose that the committee leave only matters relating to registration, questions relating to changes to the Tax Code, to be taken out of it. Taking into account the above, as members of the committee, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Implementation of the ATO on the Uninterrupted Activities of Local Self-Government Authorities, No. 4048, has been adopted to the Supreme Council for consideration and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading on the basis of an exception to the provisions on amendments to articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for a Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u157	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u158	At the same time, with the narrowing of article 4 of the circle of subjects with regard to which it is possible to carry out registration activities involving the change of founders and the head of the legal entity, only with regard to subjects of public law, as well as the expansion of the list of areas to which the changes will apply, the areas designated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council considers that a bill can be adopted as a basis. The Ukrainian City Association supports this bill, taking into account the proposals made. So the proposal from the committee is to support the committee's decision as I read it. For the second reading, we will gather a joint working meeting of the drafters of the bill, members of the committee, as well as the drafters of the bill, who will settle the relevant issues in order to get us on second reading. Dear colleagues! Please support the committee’s proposal in the first reading with the warnings I gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u159	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u160	Thank you. Preparing for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! It is a great request to support this bill, because really because of the cancellation of registration in Donetské, Lugansk region, even where there is a peaceful life, most businesses are unable to operate. But we're also asking you to make a motion about voting first for all 400ths, i.e. 4ths, 6ths and 7ths, i.e. taking into account land payments, taking into account municipal pay issues. and if this is not supported by the hall, only then proceed to the vote for paragraph 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u163	It's balic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u164	Eugeny Balicki, 80 district. Please pass the microphone to Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u165	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. The fact that this situation requires an economic solution and we have talked from this rostrum on many occasions, and I have spoken from the faction, we have talked about the need to resolve this situation in some way. And the MPs, who represent the majority districts from the ATO area, also supported the situation. Indeed, it is very difficult. In addition to the fact that our basic sectors of the economy so far are virtually out of work, they are destroyed by the policies of the Cabinet of Ministers today. Practically. that debt is huge in wages, and people in these circumstances are practically surviving. In addition, we have blocked the work of small and medium-sized businesses; we do not allow ourselves to develop normally either small or medium-sized businesses. Few new authorities have come to management when you have chosen new councils, and today they have a huge choice as to what they should do to save energy, to run energy-saving technologies. They can't actually influence these processes in order to form new teams. Therefore, it is clearly necessary to make a decision. But I do, by the way. I want to add one more thing. In doing so, we must make such a decision that we do not entangle those who enjoy personal benefits, that is what we must leave here, and that is to understand that those who suffer should no longer suffer in this situation. This is the second moment. And the third moment, I don't understand it at all, is that I am proposing a bill, which is already under the leadership of our Supreme Council, a bill called 3821, which clearly regulates all these issues and divides the territories in which military action is taking place, territories under the control of the Ukrainian authorities, territories in which no military action is taking place, territories of contact, and so on, it would solve all these problems. However, despite the fact that the bill had been tabled earlier, it had been removed. Why? Because he's a member of the Opposition Unit. It's probably the wrong approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u166	Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I very much want you to pay attention to the very dangerous norm that is proposed to vote. Mr. Gerasimov, if you insist on that, we simply do not vote on the bill as a whole. You can't go into occupied territory, even in the territory where our representative authority is, to change private business, to register, dot. Because if people quit their business and moved to another part of the territory of Ukraine, it's going to be a raid that many people are really looking forward to now having an impact on. We agree to support only part of the community service. the local authority of utilities. And Mr. Matvienkov is 100 percent right that the part of the business that can't pay rent today, for example, land near Donetsk Airport, can't go in there and cover up what the local authorities need. This bill can only be voted on in the first reading by the Committee on Industry and Enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u168	Thank you. So the bill is closed. All those who wanted to speak. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that there will be a vote and factions now, and I also ask to invite my fellow deputies to the Chamber to make a responsible decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation (for the uninterrupted activities of local self-government bodies), 4048, based on the committee's drafting on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:27:08]] For 265 Decision taken. And there's a proposition: consider the second reading by a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal: consideration for second reading by summary procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[13:27:39]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, little help. We have another bill in chapter "First Reading": 3562. Then we can put the daily bill into order. There are many of them, and there will be an important resultant vote on them. So I'm asking you to mobilize yourself to work in the hall. I now submit the following bill: 3562. There is a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Review of the simplified procedure 3562. Please vote. [[13:28:42]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sverk Grigori Aronovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm introducing Bill 3563 to your consideration of the protection of the information space of Ukraine. Over the past few months, the Supreme Council has adopted several legislative acts to change legislation in the field of television and radio. For example, these are laws about media property and the openness of media property, these are laws about reducing the content of the enemy. But there is now a big problem with the fact that the National Council on Television and Radio Communication does not have effective mechanisms to ensure that these legislative acts are implemented, namely. The current legislation provides for the following elements for the National Council: a warning, a fine and a summons to the court for the withdrawal of the licence. At present, no legislative act prescribes the procedure for imposing fines and does not provide any formula for the recognition of the size of the fine. That's why the bill proposes to amend the Television and Radio Act to make it clear how the National Council will impose fines on television and radio, and how these fines will be determined. On the one hand, it is possible to apply fines, and on the other hand, the clarity of the wording allows for a reduction in the discretion of the National Council in determining the size of fines. In addition, the proposed differentiation of the size of the fine as a percentage of the licensing congregation allows for a small fine for a small television organization in a small place and a large fine for a large one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u170	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u171	The application of fines is a European practice. Perhaps everyone remembers the situation when a DJ radio station in Poland allowed xenophobic expressions to the address of Ukrainian girls. And the Polish regulator applied a fine of 25,000 euros to that Polish radio organization. So please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u172	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Miss Victoria Petrovna on the rostrum, please, men of honor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy at its meeting on February 17th, discussed a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting (on the protection of the information space of Ukraine) introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Schwerk, Sevrukov and Onufrik. The substance of the bill was just presented by the author of the legislative initiative. It is about making the National Council on Television and Radio more effective because of the introduction of a fine instrument that could be imposed on television companies in the context of certain violations that occur very often now, since Ukraine really has to create certain barriers in the information sphere from Russian propaganda aggression. In summary, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading of the draft bill on television and radio change, under number 3562, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u174	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u175	Please hand it over to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u176	Self-help supports the idea of establishing clear rules which punishment is, in which cases. But it seems to us that the second reading needs to be reduced so that we can punish TV channels so that the law does not establish a basis for censorship. I quote one of the problems, in my opinion, in this bill: "Telecanals may be subject to sanctions for the dissemination of information that violates the legitimate rights and interests of natural and legal persons, which violates the honour and dignity of a person." In our circumstances, this 100 percent may be the basis for censorship or attack on the media, and it is important that we preserve their independence. So we're going to vote in the first reading, but we're going to ask for a second reading to correct the same wording, because media freedom is above all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u177	Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u179	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. With all due respect to your colleagues, the title of this law should not be "to protect Ukraine's information space" but "to protect the President's administration." I'll give you an example, Your Honor. 26 years ago, the European Court of Human Rights recognized the decision: Autronic AG won a court against the state of Switzerland for a similar law, where there was no specificisation. Now, dear colleagues, I quote you in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Research Office, which unfortunately was not addressed by the honourable author of this law, namely: The Chief Research Office explains that the bill lacks a clear specification of the infringements of the licensing conditions, because the wording of the provisions of article 42 will overly reinforce the authority of the National Council, which will not be in line with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, which makes it clear that restrictions or restrictions that leave excessive freedom of action incompatible with the right and expression and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Persons. In fact, this law, as we see clearly from international experience, is an absolutely repressive law that limits freedom of speech, which gives dictatorial powers to the National Council on Television and Radio. We all know who controls this National Council. 5 Channel won't check any searches, no mask show, no one. And since my colleagues and I went to the State Fiscal Service last week, which is openly harassing Savik Schuster Studio, without even keeping a record of the meeting, of the case. It's just us today, we see that this law is the onset of freedom of speech, which is the fundamental value of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u180	Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u181	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like to consult you, because it feels like we're still transferring the government's authority to the Supreme Council. However, the law provides that Nakrad can set up and use such a punishment as a fine, in fact, is not enough just to regulate Kabmin's order and size. Why is this not done by Kabmin? Why is it so incomprehensible to pass it on to the law? So I think this law needs work, and in the first reading, it's worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u182	From the People's Front, the word is given to Andrew Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u183	It is important for us to understand the nature, purpose and purpose of the bill, as we consider the bills. And it's worth taking into account that each of us here is a smart person and understands the arguments perfectly. But when they're aspiring for a bill, they're hanging this stinking piece of shit that's hanging over our heads, and it's going to make you feel like you're going to get dizzy, and I'm going to ask you not to hang these posters, or you're going to put them somewhere in your ranks, and you're going to see how they're going to blow you up and create jobs for you. That's the first one. And the second. Taking advantage of the opportunity to welcome space workers, I welcome them to Space Day. Once again, we affirm that Ukraine is a space state, and we in Parliament will support everything in order for Ukraine to take the right place in the space-state pool. Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u184	Thank you, fellows of honor! So we finished the discussion. Can we get to the vote? I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to call the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, have they all prepared for the vote? Can I put it to a vote? So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act (about protecting Ukraine's information space) (number 3562) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:40:28]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Now, Oleg Valeriyovich, we are now going to have an important block of bills that require effective voting. And I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and get ready for work. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to come into the hall and prepare now for making decisions. Now we have a block for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Without discussion, we will simply make decisions and vote. I have a request to invite members of the Chamber to both the heads of the factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall. So we go to the inclusion section of the agenda. The first proposal is the draft Law on the Specificities of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs, No. 4288 and 4288-1. Who supports the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[13:42:28]] For 213 Dear colleagues, I'll be right back. There is no need to speak with motive, no problem not with motive, but with the discipline of MPs. I've had five minutes, three minutes, ten minutes, and I've stressed that there's going to be important votes now, so please come into the hall. I'm very much asking you to take your jobs, I think there are voices and there's no need to go to the discussion. We need to be vigilant, responsible, and dignified. It's just inclusion in the agenda, no discussion, no. Please invite those deputies who are not present and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we'll go to other bills. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. Ready? So once again, I am placing in the agenda of the draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing Goods, Works and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs (numbers 4288 and 4288-1). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:44:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Next. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting (for the order of the DP'Ukrainian Television Studio') (number 4232). Colleagues who support the proposal, the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote, 4232. Vote. [[13:44:49]] For 229 On the other hand, the question is replica, Oleg Lazko, one minute. Noisyuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u185	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The five bills that we propose to include in the agenda: anti-rerader 4216, on stabilizing government activities -- 4357, on free medical examination of elderly citizens -- 4329, on education of persons living in the ATO zone -- 4350, on the preservation of property of state institutions of vocational and technical education -- 4365. Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction proposes to include these five very important bills in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-12-m0.u186	Thank you. So this is the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (number 4193). Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session, please vote, 4193. Please vote. [[13:46:25]] For 212 The decision is not made. Next. The proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others (4210). Those who support the inclusion of the day session, please vote 4210. Please vote, please. [[13:47:07]] For 207 The decision is not made. Next. Dear colleagues, look, we have 13 minutes to take a break. Is it possible to carry out one of those 10 minutes? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs and colleagues into the hall. There are proposals from different political factions here, but they all just fail because of lack of discipline. So I'm asking you to focus on those 10 minutes, focus. Now we're just going to put it into the agenda without discussion, it's going to be quick and efficient work. I simply ask for discipline and ask you to respond responsibly to your duties. The next proposal is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension provision of individual categories of participants in the implementation of the ATO, which is the draft People's Deputy Trelyakov (3252). For the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote. [[13:48:36]] For 231 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to extend the powers of local self-government authorities to manage land and strengthen State control over land use and protection. People's Deputy Kulinić, Bill 4355. For the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. 4355. Please vote. [[13:49:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next: Draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on State control (control) in the field of environmental protection in part of compliance with land legislation, the use and protection of all categories and forms of property, soil fertility. National MP Dirov, number 4356. For the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[13:49:59]] For 206 The decision is not made. Next: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. National MP Kurilo, number 4350. For the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[13:50:39]] For 251 Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the suspension of the transfer of property of state-owned vocational and technical institutions to municipal property. National Deputy Lilia Greenevich, number 4365. Who is in favour of putting the matter in order of the day session, please vote. Please vote, 4365. [[13:51:26]] For 254 Decision taken. The next is the chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. We have three bills in that chapter. Thus, the first in that chapter is the draft Law on the Restructuring of Ukrainian Citizens’ Liabilities for Foreign Currency Loans, which was obtained for the purchase of a single dwelling (potassium loans). This is a project of the People's Deputy Vilkula, 4004 and 4004-1. Markarova and Wilkul are reporters. Minfin passed the bill, Wilkul submitted it as an alternative. For including these bills in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making process, please vote. Please vote. [[13:52:56]] For 231 Decision taken. The next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on granting subsidies to Donetsk and Luhansk regions from the remaining funds of the local budgets of the settlements in which the authorities of the State do not exercise their powers, is the draft of the national deputy of Efimov. I understand that a whole group of our deputies are insistently asking that the bill be supported and placed in the order of the day session. A whole group of our deputies from the Donetsk region, Luhansk, members of the Petra Prashenka Block, are asking the entire session hall to support our cities and our territories, freed from invaders. So, honourable colleagues who support the inclusion of Law 4197 in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making process, please vote. Please vote. [[13:54:28]] For 241 141-for. Decision taken. Congratulations, guys. 241. I apologize: 241, the decision is made. And the last one in this block is the draft Law on the introduction of some legislative changes on the features of the use of individual public funds in the territory of the Donetsk Region, number 4199. I understand he's going in a package with the previous bill. This is also the project of the national deputy of Jephthah. And, honourable colleagues, they also ask the national MPs to support him. His number 4199, supported his inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. So who wants the draft law before making some legislative changes on the features of the use of individual public funds in the Donetsk Region, number 4199, to be included in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making, please vote. Please vote. [[13:56:02]] For 229 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, we were able to go through the whole chapter of "inclusion into the agenda of the day session," as well as "inclusion in the order of the day and decision-making," and "question in the first reading." These were important issues to address national security and defence issues. Most of the bills we considered in full procedure, and yet we were able to spend the first half of the day very productively, making important responsible decisions. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a break until 4:00. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
