ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Good morning, dear fellows! Colleagues, pay attention! Please get ready for work. Yesterday the Ministry of Justice of Russia declared Majlis the Crimean Tatar people an extremist organization. The whole nation, our Crimean Tatar brothers, announced by the extremist organization. This is the first time since the end of the dictatorships of Stalin and Hitler the entire nation has been declared extremists, an expression of Russian fascism. On May 18, 1944, Stalin signed a criminal decree that led to the terrible tragedy of the Crimean Tatars. On April 18, 2016, Russian totalitarian authorities banned Majlis. Russia’s actions reaffirm this country’s definition of leadership as a prison of nations. The Crimean Tatar people have no other homeland than Ukraine, but Crimea. And our task together is to do everything possible to free our land and our Crimean Tatar brothers as soon as possible. On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I call on international organizations to respond to this crime. I ask the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to consider calling the UN Security Council urgently on this issue. I'm sure all of the civilized world we're going to get rid of our brothers under occupation. We welcome our brothers, the Crimean Tatar brothers, so that they can feel our support. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday after the Conciliation Board, we include in the agenda the maximum proposals that have been made by both committees and factions. We're having a social day this afternoon. Alexander Tretlyakow's proposals, Mr. Alexander, were made in the order of the day. And I hope that we will have fruitful work today and productive work. I'm asking you to prepare the deputies for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Please. [[10:05:54]] 324 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please record. Bondar Victor, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u2	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, we are certainly starting a new plenary week, we are starting today's session with the hope that we will review the approach to Parliament's work, the approach to cooperation with the government. We understand that this week the government is not going to be able to offer us an effective programme of paperwork, with bills. But we expect that in at least the next week, two of us from the government will see concrete proposals, three, five issues to be strategic about this year that will solve economic problems that will enable strong investments to be made in Ukraine that will enable a real decentralization programme and, above all, financial decentralization in Ukraine that will enable business problems to be solved, to identify issues that relate to law enforcement. So we have to cut out the matrix that law enforcement agencies do, what the jurisdiction of which law enforcement agencies, we have to cut off the law enforcement agencies from the business and stop the pressure on business through the law enforcement system, and we certainly have to put a dot in the shameful affairs of the collapse of the economic situation in Ukraine. So first of all, we demand today, let's go back to the question of our decision to liberate Gontareva from the head of Nazbank, because we already see how the whole country is suffocating today in the banking crisis, we see banks being eliminated, and at the same time the physical and legal persons of Ukraine cannot withdraw their deposits. It's about that people and businesses have already lost more than seven billion dollars as a result of the liquidation of Ukrainian banks, we see that there is no monetary policy in Ukraine in terms of foreign exchange rates, and so on, we see that the National Bank is going down today's export policy in Ukraine, and in fact today's business, industry has no financial supply, no currency demand to boost exports. And that's why we understand that without the release of the leadership of the National Bank, at the same time as the change of government, nothing in this country changes economically. That is why we demand that our draft decree be put in place and voted in the release chamber of Mrs. Gonnaareva. In particular, we demand that we put to the vote our draft decree on a moratorium on tariff increases by 2018. The point is that, at the same time as this moratorium, we have to carry out a full assessment of the energy efficiency of Ukrainian utility companies and bring order in this area. We need to stop this tariff war with Ukrainian citizens, and we need to lower tariffs through energy conservation programs. This is the only way we see it today. That is why we demand that these two decisions be put to the vote, and the issue of Gottari has to be resolved immediately. This is what all Ukrainian citizens and businesses expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u3	Mr. Chubarov, the head of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, is invited to the floor. Please welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u4	Dear Head, dear colleagues! On April 18, 2016, the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people was introduced into the list of extremist organizations whose activities are banned in Russia. Putin’s regime, which occupied Crimea, took another step that reduced the mental distance between him and Hitler’s regime, which also condemned entire nations of the occupied countries of Europe to destruction. In fact, we have no questions about Putin; he behaves as brutally as he is allowed by the international community in the Crimea occupied by him. Another issue is whether the leaders of the Western countries are aware of the consequences for their own peoples of their "strausian" politics in relation to Russia, which openly embodies the role of the owner of the fates of the entire world. Today, the Crimean Tatars, the Ukrainians, Ukraine, cannot escape the answer to the question: Who will be sentenced to Russia tomorrow? So the leaders of the Western countries, the international community, have to understand that if we don't stop Putin, their country, their peoples will be tomorrow. Let's stop Russia together, the aggressor, free Crimea, restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u5	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u6	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, did not pass away, and for six months the Prime Minister’s government, Yatzenuk, was retired. No government has done so much damage to Ukraine, but the responsibility for the situation lies with the coalition, which has supported the government for two years, which has lost the trust of its citizens. Therefore, we should not expect the crisis to be overcome. There is no parliamentary support in the new government at the start, and there is no vote in the relevant decision -- a strong so-called confirmation. Again, everything was going against the Rules and the Constitution in violation of all the rules and regulations. Moreover, Kabminu’s new composition began with what he had put in front of the mare — a program of activity that neither the deputy nor the ministers themselves had seen. I'll say more, at the time of her presentation, the members of the government did not hold any joint meetings. The program does not answer the key questions: the abolition of pension taxes and the indexation of social benefits, assistance to black people and people with disabilities. There is no mention of support for farmers and a review of the Tax Code, which destroys agrarians, small and medium - size businesses. There are no suggestions to view the lowering of municipal tariffs. We have not received an answer to the question of how the real economy will be restored and the problems of unemployment resolved. The government did not say the main thing: how we will establish peace in our territory. We're willing to support any laws that are aimed at people's interests. We don't stand in a position: the worse the better. Let us correct what the past government has done. In particular, I want to talk about the quality of government. Once again, the old, stalemate principle of party quotas was used. We see a complete absence of profilers. We don't have a regional principle, we have a big country, and we need to know the mentality, the structure of industry and the economy of each part. In our difficult situation, it's very important to take regional features into account, And the last is what European parliamentarians have repeatedly talked about. There is no control in Ukraine. In the last two years, this has led to an economic catastrophe, for the authorities are neither accountable nor controlled. The government left, not with shame, but with gratitude for the part of the deputies ’ work. If the opposition fails to gain control, the new government will be even more catastrophic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u7	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" Group, Jaroslav Moskalenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u8	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, the noble Ukrainian people. I want to welcome Ukraine with the election of the Cabinet of Ministers and the reloading of their work after a four-month political stagnation. The MP's "will of the people" in a non-working coalition supported the government of Groysman and himself as Prime Minister. We consider this our only chance, the chance of saving our country, and the reaction of the Western media shows us that we have saved the actual collapse of our country. The Cabinet of Ministers and the team aren't the star, we see they don't have their own political ambitions. In another situation, we realize that this can be the driving force behind a deep political crisis. What will this choice give Ukraine? Dear colleagues, we will be able to see this at the first step in the work of this government. And one such step is to combat corruption, which will be at the customs office, which will be in the fiscal authorities, which will be in the law enforcement agencies, and most importantly, how to fight corruption in the central authorities. Another important question. What priority will they take in their work – support for Western creditors or the fight for jobs, support for businesses that work for the economy of Ukraine. What will matter is what the tariff policy will be, whether they will continue the disgraceful practice of the Yatzenuk government, whether they will carry out deep reforms that will allow for transparent tariff formation, which means that we will implement IMF recommendations and not raise tariffs for the people. And most importantly, what will be the cooperation of this government with Parliament as our bills are being implemented, and such a test in this government will be as soon as we vote on Bill 2093 on the protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. The dembel chord of the previous government was the recommendation of the President of Ukraine, which they established before their own people, to veto the bill. Dear colleagues, the People's will MPs insist on one of the priorities of this week is to consider Bill 2093, to overcome the President's veto, and not to say anything, but to prove that the people who sit in this House care for their people. And the government of Groysman, by implementing this bill that we're going to adopt with you, in 300 votes, will show -- the government of Groysman with the people or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Just before me, my colleague, the reverend Moskalenko rhetorical asks a question. He said we'd see the government of Groysman with or without the people. You'll see, not with the people, but with you, with the oligarchs, with the regionals and President Poshenko, agreed last week, the Parliament has created a broad "widening" with the participation of distinguished colleagues from the "Peter Prashenko Block", the "National Front" and the regional MPs who are joining the two oligarchic groups today. The whole society is gossiping that there is a democratic coalition in Parliament for two respectable factions. And the actual results of the vote for the government of Groysman himself show that there is no democratic coalition in Parliament. There is no "wide" for the participation of former democratic deputies and for the participation of regions that do not exist. This "broad" is consecrated and created as a result of the secret occult corruption arrangements of the President of Ukraine with the oligarchs, with the regionals. At first, President Poroshenko bought a carcase to his faction following the example of Yanukovich. When the carcases were not enough, they threw themselves into the rough, made arrangements with the regionals. And those of you who voted in favour of the laws of January 16 for dictatorial blood laws, last week you vote in favour of the election of Groysman, for the election of the government. And now you're telling me whether this government is with the people. No, unfortunately, not with the people. There can be no democratic government chosen by the regions. Therefore, the Radical Party faction as an opposition political power warns Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian community, that today President Poroshenko is making every effort to usurp power in the country. The unconstitutional purpose of the government is that the authors of the decrees that the parliament voted on the election of the Prime Minister and the government were not entitled to do so. In accordance with the Constitution, the Prime Minister could only be nominated by the President of Ukraine. That's exactly why last week we called on the Supreme Administrative Court to declare an illegal decision by Parliament to elect Groisman and to appoint a government. I appeal to all democratic forces in Parliament and outside Parliament to unite my forces with a broad democratic united opposition to confronting power, the usurpation of power by President Prashenko. The Radical Party faction requires the adoption of the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions, the Law on Impeachment of the President of Ukraine, the Law of the New Electoral Act, which will overcome corruption in the constituencies. And the key is that we will force Parliament to adopt laws to protect Ukrainian citizens, to radically increase salaries and pensions. That's why we were chosen here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u11	From the Self-Help faction, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u12	I'm going to ask you to put my speech in the end so that I can pass it on to Jehora Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u13	This format is not available. Yegor Sobolev, more or less, is coming along. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u14	From the Self-Help faction, a huge request for two decisions this week. Colleagues, we have already released two friends of the President from the office of Attorney General in this House. There is no good reason to appoint a third friend of the President as Attorney General. Henprosecutor has no friend, no president, no parliament, no politics. He must be a friend of the laws of Ukraine, he must be the Attorney General of Ukraine. A year ago, we drafted a bill to get the new Attorney General and all the others elected for the open competition. An independent committee of experts, of public activists, who would offer three strong presidential candidates who would get Parliament's approval for the best of them. Then neither the President nor we will be wrong. A strong, independent Henprocuror is the path of a civilised correction of today's state-run trouble. Then the President will work differently, then the new government will work differently, and Parliament will work differently. Let's make this decision. Today we have asked people under the Supreme Council to gather to support this bill. I saw ATO veterans with yellow bandages on their hands. I said, what does that mean? They say an anti-terror operation must be conducted in Kiev right now. Let's help people find civilized, effective, European solutions to the situation. The Attorney General, the competition, the parliamentary vote for the President's proposal. Second request for Self-Help. A request to all of us and to a new government. Tax cuts are what the economy, entrepreneurs, and people who have low wages because of the downturn of business needs. The simplest decision we can vote this week is the reduction of excise duties on used cars. What's going to give competition, what's going to improve the standard of living, what's going to give more justice and what's going to bring some business to life. The other one. Ruining corrupts, corrupt schemes in the middle of fiscal services. We are addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. What we couldn't get to Arsenius Jacinyuk. The management of the DFS is not managed by people who can make it strong, independent, and principled. Next the tax pits, then the schematics. The new management of the State Fiscal Service. Reducing taxpayers' involvement in the economy, reducing taxpayers themselves, eliminating tax militias. This is a decision that Self-Help has been proposing to be approved in Parliament and in the government this week. And then we're going to show people the result, and then we're going to give people hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u15	From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u16	Greetings, dear fellows, Your Honor's Head! Yesterday, it became clear that the Russian occupation authorities had decided to stop the activities of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. The Russian Federation committed another crime on Ukrainian soil against our fellow countrymen and brothers. This indignant fact requires an immediate response to our diplomacy in order to call upon the world to condemn and pressure the Kremlin, which every day demonstrates the clinical manifestations of stupidity and its totalitarian fears. According to the statute, the aim of Majlis is to overcome the consequences of genocide against Crimean Tatars, the restoration of rights and the national culture of self-determination. By deciding to block the work of Majlis today, the Kremlin shows the legacy of the Stalin course. We, the faction of the People's Front, express support for the Crimean Tatar people, its leader Rephat Chubarov, the symbol of the struggle for the rights of Crimean Tatars by Mustafa Djemiliev. And we also urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a joint appeal to world leaders so that the world community does not let itself be put to sleep by the lying speeches of Putin and Lavrov. Russia remains as a bloodthirsty monster as it was two years ago, during the illegal annexation of Crimea and during the aggression in eastern Ukraine. The ban on Majlis must be a clear signal and a warning that neither the US nor European countries will resume their cooperation with Russia in the military or any other sphere that will allow Moscow to intensify economically and further develop its aggressive plans. The fight for the rights of the Crimean Tatars, the fight for the return of the Savichenko Hope, and today it is about the fact that liberation from the captivity of Hope will actually save her life. The fight for the return of our other captive patriots should be a priority for the Ukrainian authorities. Yesterday, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine received a call from Hope asking her to initiate a procedure for her return to Ukraine. Justice Minister Paul Petrenko has already begun the necessary work. And we are very optimistic that we will soon be able to meet our heroic hope free. Now on behalf of the People's Front, I want to state the following: we have a new political reality -- a renewed work of the coalition, a new government. The People's Front, as the foundation of the coalition, will be careful to ensure that both the coalition and the new Kabin properly benefit from the achievements of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and continue to follow it. And I encourage critics and populists to calm down. The country is waiting for real action, not a series of gross accusations. The People's Front invites Parliamentary colleagues to work as productively as possible this plenary week. We have many unfinished tasks, one of which is the reform of Parliament according to the Recommendations developed by the Pat Cox Mission. We already discussed this on the Conciliation Council yesterday. Dear Head, we will support you in implementing these recommendations. And I urge my colleagues to recall with what inspiration to change and promise we all returned from the "Ukrainian Week" in Brussels. The time has come for the Supreme Council to work actively, not to compete with Hollywood with the starry face. The last Conciliation Board of the People's Front called on the President to apply immediately for the post of Henprocuror. We expect the Head of State to offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u18	he will propose an officer of the department who will end the Soviet prosecutor’s office in Ukraine. So society has openly waited for change, and we all expect effective anti-corruption action in investigating the crimes against Maidan, punishing the former regions that robbed Ukraine to the last thread. The Attorney General's office has long since lost the confidence of the citizens. Convinced that the result of the reform should be the creation of the principle of a new institution that would effectively protect the interests of citizens. And finally. To factions that we all have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u19	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u20	the factions that have all the means to get back to work and yet start implementing the necessary reforms, I would like to ask you to confirm that there will be no next election. And your energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u21	The Fatherland faction, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin a conversation now solely with the question of Hope Savichenko. You know everyone who's in a difficult condition, and you know that today her sentence came into force legally, and likewise, the sentence handed down to those bandits who worked from the Russian Federation in the territory of our Ukraine and took part in the war, and in the aggression against Ukraine. But today, there are no documents that should have been handed over by Ukraine to the Russian Federation regarding the return of the Savachenko Hope to its home. Our team has been trying for a week to get the Justice Department to focus on this job, but nothing's going on. And Nadia wrote a letter because she just sees that this job is just sabotaging. Therefore, I have my first request to the Head of the Supreme Council. I ask you in the afternoon, at 4 p.m., please invite the Minister of Justice to report on what documents have been drawn up upon the return of Hope to Savchenko's home. And what is the state of this work in general? I say again, it just blocks and sabotages. What about the situation in Ukraine today? There is no doubt that there was a rematch, virtually a counter revolution. And what they are doing today behind the back of the people has all the signs of outright crime. When they sold and bought votes for the new government, and the new prime minister, new powerful corruption schemes were promised, including the return of VAT. But today, when we understand who the country is dealing with, we need, more than ever, strong democratic opposition. And that's why today the coordination of the opposition, the power of the democratic opposition, is exactly the kind of safeguard that will not allow the forces of the rematch to just destroy Ukraine definitively. And that's why we insist today that new opportunities and the authorization of democratic opposition be given in principle. First. This is a law on temporary commissions of inquiry that will allow for the organization of anti-corruption controls already in the Supreme Council. Next. We think it's time to create a powerful interim investigation commission to verify all the corrupt equipment of the previous government in two years of its work in all state corporations, and also in all ministries. We've sent letters to everyone and we expect democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u24	Thank you. I would also like to point out that one of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council is the Accounting Chamber. I think that a position united by all democratic opposition forces must be that a representative of the democratic opposition must be the head of the Court of Auditors, who can check every penny. And then we will discover everything they do behind the people. And last of all, de-offshoring. Two bills filed by Fatherland that completely shut off all offshore equipment. Plus 68 billion dollars to the budget. Now, practically, there's a block to the adoption of these bills. The committee's been told not to accept it, not to analyze the science department, and today the president wants to set up a task force. It's not the president's function, it's also there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u25	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u26	Also, the President's conflict of interest with regard to offshores. So I urge the Supreme Council to immediately include itself in the adoption of the Stop Bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in a minute we're moving to the agenda, so I'm asking all my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please let the deputies know we're starting work. Now, the first deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is given the floor. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the question of the liberation of the Savachenko Hope is on the personal control of the President of Ukraine. And as President of Ukraine's press service reported, the President had a telephone conversation with the head of the Russian Federation, in whose hands is the fate of our colleague, Vladimir Putin, requiring that doctors or Ukrainian, or independent, be admitted to the Savchenko Hope. Similarly, this discussion discussed the further fate of Hope Saucenko. Likewise today, according to the President of Ukraine's mandate, I met with the mothers of hostages who are held in occupied territories because the issue of the liberation of every Ukrainian citizen is a matter of priority for the Ukrainian authorities. And, in fact, if the session room wants to appeal to someone for the release of the Savichenko Hope, today this address is the Kremlin and this address is Vladimir Putin. And in fact, today there's no such international meeting, there's no such friend of Ukraine in the world, or it's about the leaders of other states, or international organizations that don't raise that question. And on Thursday, April 21, the issue of the release of Hope and other Ukrainian hostages will be raised in special debates at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where the Ukrainian delegation will also speak harshly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We have a block of social policy. First, we turn to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to clarify the legal rules governing the definition of categories of persons who are subject to compulsory State pension insurance) (2274a). Dear fellow Members, there is a proposal from the Committee of Review for a reduced procedure. Everyone, please take your seats, get ready for the vote. Ready? I'm proposing to review draft Law 2274a by a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:38:15]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the full procedure. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Andriyevsky Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, Bill 2274a deals with the assignment of pensions to citizens who care for the elderly and receive social assistance. When my colleague Sergei Kunicini and I prepared this bill, we came from the fact that there are a lot of people who take care of it, who get social assistance, who have the right to pension insurance, but they can't take advantage of that right. On our repeated appeals to the relevant pension administrations, to the Ministry of Social Policy, we were told that the definition of "the elderly" is not in our legislation. So that's why my colleague and I have proposed to make a technical change, to define, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law, "On the Basic Principles of Social Protection for Workers and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine" is a definition for people who carry out such care to have the right to receive adequate pensions and to actually exercise that right. Thank you. And please support this, very important, technical, but very important, social-direction bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please. Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u32	Thank you. The distinguished Chairman, the distinguished rapporteur of the bill, is certainly the faction of the opposition bloc, as a true opposition force that controls the protection of the rights of the socially vulnerable sectors of the population, who is trying to correct the mistakes of the last coalition, the coalition in force, although I do not understand why it is called a coalition, because the two factions of the People's Front and the BPP are 220 people's deputies. We have a question. When will social bills really be put in place that will enhance the social well-being of citizens? I understand it's a technical bill, it's necessary, I understand it as a lawyer, but I don't understand why on the day of the social bills, they don't put in those bills that would really raise social standards and the property situation of our deprived citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u33	Mr. Reporter, it would be wise for you to answer. Dmitry Josephovich, Dmitri Josephovich, ask me to stay in the rostrum at the time of the report and answer the questions asked by the deputy. Please, there was a question. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u34	That's not a question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u35	We will consider that this question does not apply to the reporter. And we're moving on to the next question. Igor Pober, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u37	Dear reporter, next question. The definition of the meaning of the term "old person" is only made before. Your Honor, Mr. Andreyevsky. May I have your attention, please? This bill only solves a part of the issue, along with that, we do not make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the Universal Compulsory State Social Insurance, which may also be an obstacle to the treatment of the relevant issues that you have been declared. Please tell us how we will solve this part of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. It's a bill that is prepared and proposed to clarify the provisions of the Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance, "The Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance," where these changes are made and this is really a technical issue, but it can fully resolve the situation. Get in, yeah, move in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u39	Thank you. And last question, Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Mr. Reporter, you've just been asked by the MP, National Deputy Kaplin, only he seems to have made a little bit of a point, actually. The point is, in the Ukrainian Act, "The collection and accounting of the single contribution and the mandatory public social insurance" is changing the term, but this law does not define this new term, i.e. the elderly, as you put it into this law. That's the problem. So there's a definition of a term in one law, and there's no definition of a term in another law. And that makes it possible for our "very honest courts" to treat legislation differently. So I'm asking you very much right now, also, perhaps the presiding officer, that we can make it out of a voice in the first reading to define the term in another law. Because there's just a new copy, from that other law you have to copy into that law, you have to make a proper definition of the term. And in particular, I'm from Liberty, and I'm probably going to vote in favour of this law right now, ready to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Thanks again for asking. Dear colleagues, well, there will be a report by the committee head. But once again, I insist that the Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance also includes a category of persons who are subject to compulsory State pension insurance. I mean, that's the norm. And we can see that, including from the committee head's report. Guys, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Dmitri Josephovich, we have another MP who signed up. He insists on asking questions. I'll add another minute with your permission. And Semenha Roman Sergiyovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear reporter, the issue of terminology as well, because the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine does not have the same concept as an elderly person. So I think it's more appropriate to use the phrase or the term "citizen of old age." Even if you look at the title of the bill, there goes "and other senior citizens." If we take the choice in what the authors are proposing, it could cause confusion, so let's remove it. And the Self-Help faction is willing to vote in general, taking into account the correction of these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we've had enough. Although, again, I note that the bill is technical, but we've been very careful about defining those terms, working with the profile committee, working with the appropriate department of profile. And we're just changing the term "older" to "older person." In conclusion, including lawyers, this will provide an opportunity to resolve the problem. Once again, the problem is, and there are concrete examples, including in our constituencies, when people of five, seven, ten years of age take care of it, they get social assistance, but they don't have the opportunity to use their pension rights. Colleagues, in my opinion, are well-worked. I think that after the report by the head of the profile committee, we can vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u45	Thank you, Dmitri Josephovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Indeed, this question is strictly technical. What Is Changing? The name of the person who receives or does not receive this assistance is changing because we no longer have a person who is actually caring for the elderly. There is a person who actually takes care of an elderly person. That's the first one. The other one. This bill was introduced by respected authors on July 15th. The standard of these changes has already been overstated. And now, in order not to send this bill for further work, in order to still achieve that goal, to really get this help, I want to read under the transcript how to write out the last paragraph that applies to the Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the Universal Compulsory State Social Insurance. To replace. So in part two of Chapter I of the bill, the word "in paragraph 14" should be replaced by the word "in paragraph 13 of paragraph 1." And answering the questions of those who care that there are no terms. I want to inform you that since January 1st, 16th, these people are not the only contributors. We're not all payers. And these people are being paid by the state. And so, I'm asking you very much, in view of the written and stenographic text, to vote and support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Even so, our citizens, who care for the elderly, would have the opportunity to receive such assistance from the State. And the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions fully supports this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Please stay. Is there a question for a coconspirator? There's a question. Please record the question. Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u48	I have not so many questions as to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Today, Tuesday will consider about 8 or 10 issues that address the social problems of our fellow citizens. We're now technically, essentially technical, we're going to be discussing for half an hour. I have a request for you to vote on part of the discussion of the issue of the reduced procedure with the same enthusiasm as we voted for the Ukrainian Prime Minister's program. Put it down five or six times, but let's save time to look at everyone's social issues without exception. Because there are questions about the support of ATO soldiers and the decline in retirement age, there are questions about the support of our pensioners, our young people, the organization of treatments for young people, and so forth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u49	Thank you. I'll answer with your permission. First, I'll remind you that I put the vote to a vote because it wasn't a personal vote. Or are you a proponent of non-personal voting? I don't think so, just like the whole room, and that's why I put it to the vote. I'm sure the whole room doesn't support it. Secondly, I want to support you. Dear colleagues, the organization of the hall is up to all of us. When we can't get a vote on a technical bill just because there are no deputies in the room, instead of five important social bills at the same time, we're only going to consider one bill. But it is impossible to go the other way if there are no deputies in the hall and if the deputies do not work. So I'm going to all the factions and I'm going to all the MPs to take more responsibility in these positions, especially when it comes to social legislation. I don't think we should show political positions when it comes to important social bills. And I urge you, now that the debate is under way, to minimize the amount of discussion as quickly as possible to come to a decision. I will act in accordance with the Rules, and I call upon all MPs to respond with understanding to this proposal. Thank you. And one more question. Fish, is there a need? There's no need. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u50	Thank you. I'd still like to finish with that question, as it were. Because unfortunately, the previous reporter did not listen to me. Look, the situation is actually very simple. The bill amends two laws: the mandatory government pension insurance and the collection and the payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance. In the first law to which changes are made, it not only changes the term itself to an "older person", but also inserts the definition of that term. In the second law to which changes are made, it changes the term but does not insert the term. Taking into account the practice of our "very honest good" courts, it gives them absolutely normal reasons for them to treat these terms as they please by referring to one of the laws that does not have a term. So I ask you very much, the honourable reporter and other rapporteurs, to make the same definition of the term into the second law immediately even in the first reading and in general. It's not a problem for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Please read the bill carefully once again. It contains chapter two and chapter two. Chapter III, titled "The End of Positions." The terms are defined in "Final Positions", which refer to paragraphs 1.1. and 1.2. So this bill takes effect after the signing the next day of its official publication and the first 1.1 and the second 1.2. That's why everything is defined here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Fish. There is a need to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u53	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Andry Volodymyrovich, I have more than one proposal, please put it to the vote. To put an end to the discussion, as all who had the wish had already expressed themselves and to make a decision on the bill and to support the decision on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u54	Thank you very much. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, is there a need for factions? Is there a need for a statement from the deputies? Yes. Come on. From factions, yes. Who needs to speak from factions, I ask you to sign up. Please record. Lensky's handing it over to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u55	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukrainian pensioners are the most destitute category of Ukrainian citizens. Throughout their lives, people have worked hard, hard in the cologne, in the fields, in March, in the mine, in the school, in the hospital, and today they live on a penny pension, and they get married like bums. They don't have the ability to buy a cure or pay for a utility, I don't talk about gifts to kids or grandchildren anymore. So the Radical Party faction has initiated a series of laws aimed at protecting our best Ukrainian pensioners. In particular, we require amendments to the Budget Act and a radical increase in pensions for pensioners. It is estimated that today's minimum pension is 3,000 dollars to cover at least its basic needs for utilities, food, medicine. Next. We have registered in Parliament a law that provides for annual medical examinations free of charge for pensioners. Because today people don't have the ability to pay for either the C.T. or the fluorography or the X-ray, and as a result, they only go to the hospital when the disease is in its final stages, and they go to the hospital when even the doctor with the "gold hands" can't help. And especially if you take the people of pensioners who live in villages where the FAPs are closed, where there is no road to the village, where there is no ambulance. These people, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian pensioners, die every year, even if they could live many, many years and cheer their grandchildren up if they received timely quality, proper medical care and, crucially, on time. Because people all over the world are living with pressure, cardiovascular disease, and we have hundreds of thousands of pensioners dying each year, the first place in the world in death from cardiovascular diseases for one reason, because man didn't get the pill in time, he didn't get the shot, he got a stroke, he had a heart attack, and he took his feet forward to the cemetery. Therefore, the Radical Party proposes to adopt a series of laws designed to protect Ukrainian pensioners, one of them being free of charge for the provision of five, six prescriptions for emergency care, from pressure, from headache, from the heart, from cold. When I'm asked where to get the money? Money will be taken, not stolen, not lied, and money. When President Poroshenko and all the other oligarchs pay taxes to the Ukrainian budget, and not offshore, hide their assets when the price of medicine is set, because today the drugs in Ukrainian pharmacies are twice as high as in neighbouring countries, then it will be possible to implement a state programme aimed at improving the standard of living and the quality of life of our best Ukrainian pensioners. Praise the Ukrainian pensioner!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u56	Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u57	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Today we are considering a social package of laws, but we are talking about investigations, and we need to look at the reasons first. The reasons for the "diseases" that are taking place in the country today. When there was a budget in this room at night, and in this budget, I want to remind you all what is envisaged? That even the amount of compensation that we vote in favour of this law today will be returned to the people – I ask you to think about it! – 96 to 206 bracelets per month to a person who is not working and caring for a person with disabilities. This is the budget now voted by the newly born opposition who spoke before me from this rostrum, and they have decided that 96 bracelets will be enough to live on for a month. The Opposition Unit therefore insists categorically that the budget needs to be changed today and that changes should be made with real indexation of pensions and salaries. And those who have decided that for 1,074 bracelets, that's how many today people with disabilities II and the third groups per month, they can live, they just make fun of people today, talking about love for people, and then actually redistribute the budget and rob people. Because, of course, poor people, people dependent on the State, are much easier to manipulate and manage. That is why today it can be one and the main task, one and the main agenda in the Ukrainian Parliament, is to adopt changes in the budget, which is today to vote in favour of raising social standards, increasing pensions and wages. The Opposition Unit registered a draft budget change in January that showed, at which cost today, by reducing costs, it was possible to increase the social component. Sixty-two billion bracelets in our bill are designed to raise social standards. These 62 billion bracelets are in the Ukrainian budget today, and our task is to give this money to index pensions and wages. We therefore insist that Bill 3793 be considered and urgently adopted in our Parliament. And now the bill that we are considering, yes, we will support, but it will not solve the global problem, because people can't survive today for 200 bracelets a month. And we call on those who voted in favour of the budget to repent and decide to increase social standards and change into a new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u58	Please, Oles Long
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u59	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, our faction understands the importance of this and further drafts of this bloc. We'll support them. At the same time, we believe that once a new Prime Minister has been elected and the new composition of the government has been elected, such important bills should be adopted along with an integrated programme on the subject. which should be presented here by both the Minister of Social Policy and the Minister of Health, who does not yet exist. Please tell us, what is the least relevant issue: health care in the country? Who is responsible for this today? Therefore, we insist that questions relating to such sensitive categories of Ukrainian citizens, such as the elderly, who are concerned with sensitive issues such as health care and compulsory insurance, should be considered in the Hall with the participation of these two ministers with an understanding of the comprehensive program of implementation of these bills and their programs as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u60	Thank you. The factions are finished. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland. Let's talk for a few more hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u61	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! The Fatherland faction has decided to support this bill, which concerns Ukrainian pensioners. But at the same time, since a new government has been elected in Parliament last week, I would like to ask the government to be put into this room and voted -- and the government to support it -- bills that deal with the introduction of pension insurance. We are the only country in Europe where pensions are taxed. It's nonsense, it can't be. After all, a pension is what a person has earned from his earnings for the rest of his life. How can pensions be taxed, especially for working pensioners? Therefore, the Fatherland faction in turn requires that two bills be considered immediately this week, which deal with the repeal of a completely unconstitutional norm, which provides for the taxation of pensions for working retirees. We believe that justice is needed by now. And these are just the bills that the "Fatherland" faction has consistently supported and required more than a year and a half to be included in the agenda and voting in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to record from the National Deputies for the performance. Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, once again I stress and urge you to save time to consider the following bills. I urge you to give up further discussion, adopt a bill and then adopt eight more necessary, important, relevant bills for our pensioners, ATO fighters and other citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u64	Dusk's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u65	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. In this statement, I am not addressing members of Parliament who are trying to bring you in, who are simply trying to deceive you, by calling for the protection of socially disadvantaged citizens, socially vulnerable segments of the population. As I said, the faction of the Opposition Block will support this purely technical bill. I would still like to make it clear that there are some so-called opposition factions who think so. That's what I'm talking about. What were you doing a year and a half ago when you joined the coalition? That's what Fatherland said about pension taxes. It is very good to insist on the bill that you have registered, immediately after voting on those bills in the Tax Code, in the Ukrainian Budget Code, to which you have actually introduced pension taxes. Not alone, but the coalition you joined and voted with that coalition. See the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the leaders of the Radical Party. They're talking about protecting pensioners. What about protecting pensioners if they voted in favour of the State Budget Act? This is what the State Budget Act does not provide for social benefits, and article 1 of the State Guarantee Act has been suspended as a temporary transferee. In fact, by taking these social benefits, you are now talking about including bills that supported these benefits. It's not beautiful, it's inconsistent. We have to say in plain terms, "Yes, we've joined the coalition, yes, we've made many mistakes, but let's correct them." The opposition bloc will naturally help to correct this social injustice. We, apart from words, in particular, are distinct from each other. The opposition bloc has prepared a constitutional presentation before the Constitutional Court that the taxation of pensions is unconstitutional. Why did not representatives of the current opposition, so-called, support those constitutional representations? Of course, say one thing and do the other. The faction “Opposition Block” referred to the Constitutional Court to recognize some of the unconstitutional provisions of the State Budget for 2015 Act, which are specific actions that are indeed aimed at protecting the interests of citizens and which are dealt with by the opposition bloc. We don't have to hang labels. Because you're actually saying one thing and you're doing the other. However you now deny that you did not support the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are transcripts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Any person concerned can read the results of the vote. We need to be responsible for our actions, not cover them up with beautiful words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u66	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u67	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, well, I think that for everyone, for any Ukrainian citizen, this is one of the most painful topics. Of course, the proposed bill could be supported, voted in favour, and could be voted on as a whole. Why? Because, in principle, this bill does not solve the problem of our pensioners. Today, I would like us to be a little abstract and to come to the specific figures that we are talking about today. The 12 million pensioners we have now in Ukraine. Of these 12 million, 10 million receive a pension of up to one and a half thousand bracelets. Think of it. One and a half thousand bracelets, provided that today's utility fee is a thousand bracelets, a social package for medicines, so that today a person of age can go to a pharmacy, get loaded, buy medicines for a month, is 350-400 bracelets. Plus, you have to try. And lose the balance that comes out of reality. To date, the State has almost the most ill, the biggest problem of what? It's just that the conversations have remained conversational. And the integrated approach to addressing the pensioners' issue is that of the past Government, and this Government has not even moved to chess. It is a matter of some kind, let us say, point-blank measures, but there is no comprehensive programme to increase employment, deductions. How can we keep the Pension Fund today, provided we have 12 million pensioners working? The village accounts for almost zero, the large industry is in a critical position, jobs are not created, small business: half is in the shadows. How are we going to get the pension industry out today? How will we extend and support this category of people? There is not today a comprehensive target programme on which we can all focus and say that yes, indeed this is the way out, this is the way to go. Today, there are a lot of smart people who come and say what should be like in terms of personality and so on and so forth. But I understand one thing, I think most people understand the method that is today. which today, a reduction in the concessional category, is acceptable for retirement under the age of 50, when they took the second list and concessional category of repairers who, together with the metalworks, are simply removed from the list. Can you imagine, on a working unit, a person who works on a working unit retires at 60?Oh, my God! You go there, not to mention the job you have. But we must understand one thing: until we create, once again, a normal system of economic development, we will not solve this problem. And in this approach, when we've had GDP literally since the 13th year, from 183 billion to 80 billion, and we're trying to explain something with reforms, you'll excuse me, I don't think there's any explanation. But the saddest part is that these bills that are now trying to wash their eyes are absolutely for retirees.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u68	The last performance is Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, "The Party of the Simple People" is proposing to support this bill and finally move on to more important issues for the Ukrainian people and for simple issues. simple people's questions. Because we already have, apart from the Minister of Social Affairs, the Deputy Prime Minister of Social Policy, but there is no sociopolitic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the bill. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And once again, I say important messages. Dear colleagues, if 150 deputies voted for this, there is no other mechanism. And when there are no deputies in the voting room, I ask you very much, then don't come up and tell me how important the bills go on. I want to talk about normal causal connections: the longer we look at the bills, the less we accept them, the more important others that stand, the less likely they are to be accepted. And that's why I'm calling for a simple thing: to be in the workplace, to be in the vote -- without this job, there's not going to be. Or we'll be looking at 20 bills a day. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come in and take your jobs. During the discussion, we discussed the bill in detail. And there's a proposal for the committee to take it as a foundation and as a whole. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on clarifying the legal rules governing the definition of categories of persons who are subject to mandatory State pension insurance, No. 2274a, on the basis of and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:14:14]] For 270. Decision taken. The law has been passed. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance", 2511a. And there's also a proposal from the committee to consider a reduced procedure. Colleagues, pay attention! Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure please vote. Please vote. [[11:14:59]] For-182 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Shuhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanović. He'll be both the author and the committee. And so I'm asking you to give me a double rule. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! The bill deals with people with disabilities who, at one time, I, II and III groups who had the right to retire, who had an internship of everything, let's say, 32 years, five years. In connection with the so-called “Tihypian”, the “Azzar reform” of the pension system, a distinction was made between persons with disabilities and groups, persons with disabilities, and groups III and III. Therefore, if they had all these categories before, they needed the same internship, in this case a difference was made. Let's say that at 40 years of age, it took a group of six years, a group of two, nine years. At the age of 50, nine years, group I, group II, 12 years. You know, this unwarranted grading was done. Because disabled persons, disability occurs immediately, no extra work can be done. This bill was registered in August last year, and we meant that by the end of the year the issue would be resolved. So by December 31st of this year, we're going to have to continue as old as before the Tehypian Reform. But the law has not been passed, you see, only now is the vote. That's why we're going to continue this bill until December 31st, 16th, so that by then this rule will be resolved and the old norm that existed before the "Typokian reform" will be restored. So it's suggested that the disabled first and third groups will have the right to retire in the same way as the same age. It won't matter. What is more, there are many displaced persons who have been forced to move to Ukraine in connection with events in the east, the war in Ukraine. There are a lot of businesses that don't actually work in the east of Ukraine, and that's why they don't have the ability to make an internship, even the third group, and to work on what the law requires today's existing law. So I'm asking you to support this bill, and what's more, we want to do by the end of the year, by making the amendments certain, and see if we can make this law proportional. Because, imagine, a person needs five years of disability, and he's 4 years old, and he's 11 months old, and he doesn't get that pension, he should be proportional. If there's not enough, well, he has to be able to proportionally count. I ask the Hall to support, especially as our Committee on Disabled Persons recommends that we support this as a whole, as well as the Pension Insurance Committee as a whole. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u72	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. You're feeling the rules and the timing is incredible. Mr. Yuri, you can take your place. From the Committee on Social Policy and Employment and the Pension Insurance of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, indeed, the bill has been tabled many months ago, we've considered it on the committee, discussed it with everyone, and we've been discussing it. You know, right now we were talking about a question about changing the name of a category of people so that they could get some help. And you know, the representatives of one block said that a lot of decisions were interesting to them to make people's lives better, and now nothing is being done to make them better, and the previous government has been doing it. You see, this is how we are correcting the mistakes of this government, which was from the Party of Regions. You remember that whole pension revolution called the pension reform for Tihypak, so it took these people out of their disability pension because they don't have that kind of internship. And now we're looking at this bill, which allows us to use this rule for the transition period before January 1, 2017. So I ask you very much to support this bill as a whole. We've calculated how many of these people could be, to which this bill will be applied, it's almost 1,000 600 people, and for a year it's 27 million dollars. I'm asking you very much, let's put it on the ground as a whole, and let the government work out another bill that will, in fact, be a pension reform to improve the lives of our pensioners, and this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ludmila. Dear colleagues, please record two in favor, two in favor, please. Igor Museiczuk. Passing the word to Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, when I look at crocodile tears, the buckets here pour out the representatives of the block of thieves. Have you forgotten how you raised a retirement age for Ukrainians? Have you forgotten how you took from the disabled pensioners the right to retire? And now you, the fightrs for justice, show how you fight. You were in power, instead of raising people's retirement age, but raising pensions, instead of modernizing the country, instead of restoring the economy, you usurped power, led the country to Midan, to bloodshed, today because of a plot with President Prashenko you're sitting in this room, you're voting with the oligarchy government of Dusty-Groysman, you're using MP's intrusiveness instead of answering for your crimes, and you're continuing to "cry crocodile tears." I want to remind Ukrainian citizens that it was at the initiative of the Radical Party faction that our parliament adopted a law last January that allowed women 55 years of age to retire on the condition that they were 30 years old. Unfortunately, President Poroshenko has vetoed this law, so far more than a year has not been taken to Parliament Hall to overcome the veto. So I'm taking this opportunity to ask the Head of Parliament to pass a bill, to overcome the President's veto, and to allow our beautiful Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire in order to be able to earn at least that penny pension, because at 50 years of age, no one is getting a job, and by 60 years of age, there is no pension. It's immoral and irresponsible in front of Ukrainian women, in front of Ukrainian pensioners. Let us finally protect people, not just ourselves!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u76	We're continuing the discussion. From the Opposition Block, Mrs. Royal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u77	Here some “partners” have now talked about how it has been good to live in the country for the past two years while they were in power. But, you know, people got a lot smarter, a lot smarter, and they remember that two years ago their pension was twice as high as today, two years ago their salary debt was an exception, not a rule two years ago, at least two or three times a year was the indexation of pensions and wages. And the goals that we have set ourselves are European wages and European pensions in our country, not what the previous coalition has created, which was one of the brightest players in the country, the previous speaker. Therefore, today we propose to take a constructive approach to the issue. First, it is the abolition of pension reform. This is the decision taken by the Opposition Unit, and we registered a bill to abolish pension reform a year and a half ago. And we call on all the deputies here, let's not scream about political slogans, but let's make real decisions. Let us unite our efforts and, if you are really protecting pensioners today, so you are concerned about the fate of women today, let us vote down the pension reform. And that will be the most literate and correct decision. Because our people have already heard beautiful things from this rostrum, they want real action from us today. Real action is the abolition of pension reform and the indexation of pensions and salaries, which are two issues that we are able to resolve and which we have an obligation to resolve in order to prove not only by words but also by action today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Mr. Fedoruk, from the People's Front, please. "The People's Front," Mr. Fedoruk, to the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u79	Please give the floor to an expert in pension insurance for Alexander Drozdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support this bill, a socially significant bill that will allow the disabled of the second group to receive a pension if there is an insurance internship at the time of the beginning of this disability or on the day of retirement. So we're actually going to go back to the rules of the law that have been in force until now, and what representatives of the so-called opposition bloc have in their own time deprived our citizens of that possibility. Please support this bill and the People's Front will be unanimously supported. Likewise, I would like to support other bills that will follow, which are also aimed at supporting our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u82	Thank you, dear colleagues. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u83	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Respectful colleagues regarding pension insurance and the bill are grateful to God that it applies to a small number of people, and the bill does not impose a serious burden on the state budget. Although, at the same time, I would like to draw attention in general to the issue of pension and the absence of a strategy in the state, as well as what we need to do in this direction to solve this problem. Because we, on the one hand, at the beginning of the year, are deciding to reduce the only social contribution from 42 to 22 percent, and on the other hand, we are asking questions about the increase in the expenditure of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And today it's about the fact that today the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. And today the situation of pension insurance is in fact becoming critical because, as such, the State's pension fund is now losing its right to exist, and pension costs are being spent on the state budget. And that's why today, I think, at a time of serious, wide-ranging parliamentary hearings on the pension scheme in Ukraine. We have to answer once and for all how we move, what social contribution, which we have a pension system, not only in the short term, but in the long term. All over the world, pension funds are one of the main tools for the economic development of the state. Instead, we have 25 years of talking about it, but we have not come any closer. And so, to my deep conviction, we need wide parliamentary hearings and we need at least one day in the parliament walls dedicated to Ukraine's pension security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u84	Thank you. And the final performance is Olesia Long. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. Please enter the Chamber. Please, Oles Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u85	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we certainly understand the importance of the bill and, out of respect for the authors of the bill, support this law and the next one that follows it. But at the same time, I want to point out that now instead of discussing this bill in fact, we've been listening for 12 minutes in a row to two different teams blaming each other and discussing how the government had lived better. Calm down, darlings, go to the county, ask people, they'll tell you that one was worse, the other was worse. And now they are waiting, not to discuss which government was better, but how to make it better for people today. To that end, we need to invite the minister of health, who needs to be appointed. Minister of Social Policy, understand what we're doing, and if we're going to do one important thing, we're going to introduce Bill 2903 of Moscalenka on the Chernobyl issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u86	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u87	And if we want to do a particular thing today, we can now introduce Bill 2903 for Moskalenko's authorship, which refers to 3 million people in relation to Chernobyl, we can vote on 300.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u88	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'll try to say it even more convincingly. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Yuri Vitaliovich. I'm asking you to organize factions for decision-making. Okay, if the decision doesn't go through, the law will be rejected. So, Mr. President, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory compulsory state pension insurance" for the necessary insurance period for the appointment of pensions to the disabled of Group II, as amended by the amendments for the stenogram from the Supreme Council's rostrum, the head of the committee of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna, on the basis of and in general, the committee? On the basis and in general. Lucenko! Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'm asking the deputies to organize a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Who supports Bill 2511a, I ask you to vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[11:34:07]] For 289 The law is passed. Welcome to the drafters, welcome to the committee with quality work. Let's move on to the next draft law that we have under the Rules of Procedure. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension provision of individual categories of ATO participants, 3252. There is also a proposal from the author for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, summary procedure, vote. [[11:34:55]] For-182 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhevic Yuria-Bogdan Romanović. But two minutes this time for the performance. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u89	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! The bill deals with a very pressing problem. You know, there's a war going on in eastern Ukraine. And those who are fighting, the defenders of Ukraine are now divided. More specifically, all those who have the right to a pension who have participants in combat are divided. Black and white. Imagine today, members of the East military have no right to retire five years earlier than all members of the military are members of the military. Why? Because there is no war in eastern Ukraine, it turns out, and that's why they have no right. And at the same time, according to a government decree of 94, participants who were in Angola, Mozambique, God knows where, even in Cuba, Czechoslovakia, where there were no hostilities, they are participants in hostilities, they have the right to retire early in five years. This is a huge injustice, and our bill is trying to eliminate this injustice and compare all the participants in the fighting that are now fighting in the ATO zone to the participants in the fighting that are there under the 94th government decree. I'd like to add a second. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what they're talking about here. No! No! Today, some 500 people are expected to retire this year, but not all will, for many of them are military personnel. In fact, there's going to be a big wave when people go into their 70s, but it's going to be in the 25th year, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u90	Please add a minute to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u91	But I hope that by then the matter will be normalized. So I'm asking you, the profile committee, our committee, the participants in the ATO and the disabled, also supports. And I'm asking you to support this as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I'm asking my fellow MPs to make a statement: two for, two against. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, colleagues. A report by the head of the Committee on Social Policy of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! In fact, this bill, introduced by the authors, supports the only way to apply the benefits to all participants in combat. Today, only members of the military have the right to an early retirement, and participants in an anti-terrorist operation do not have the right to do so. I ask you very much to support the approach proposed by the authors. According to this statistic, which we have today about our fighters who are fighting, it will be about 500 people who will come out this year, who have the right to leave, maybe they won't come out, take advantage of that right. That's about 12 million dollars a year. I don't think it's such a huge cost to give them our respect and respect. I very much ask you to support yourself as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Please record the performance, two for, two against. Please. Burbak Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! I call on all MPs to support this bill as a whole. Nevertheless, it is important to honor the fact that our boys who are currently fighting in the ATO need to restore their social rights and restore justice. So the People's Front faction will vote in favour. And it urges all colleagues to support it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u96	Eutushka, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u97	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As we look at the previous law, we've heard these rhetorical conclusions about pseudo-positioners in our country, that there's not exactly a proper policy for pensioners. So let's ask them why they voted for the increase in retirement age. And in general, I'll say, your so-called opponents, you have no right to call yourself opponents. Because you are the fifth column of the Kremlin. And there's a normal democratic opposition in the Ukrainian Parliament. And now essentially the bill. The Fatherland faction will support this bill both on the basis and in general. I also want to say that we are being approached by representatives of trade unions, professional communities in Ukraine, requiring us to vote on laws: 3203 (worked) on compulsory state pension insurance, 2698 on the abolition of taxation and the limitation of pensions for workers and other pensioners (this disgraceful tax imposed by the previous government), 2883 on the indexation of wages and pensions, 2238 on the increase in living minimum, 2245, 2835, 3851-1, 3231. We demand that the Fatherland faction put together and consider these bills together, along with civil society, with Ukrainian citizens and together with professional associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u98	Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u99	Sergey Kaplin, 144 constituency, Poltawa. Each, respectable country, government, and parliament in a state of war or ATO treats their veterans with great respect and respect. Some countries have a government structure. In particular, the United States, for example, the Department of Veterans, for which billions of dollars are spent each year, I emphasize billions of dollars. The attitude towards such people, the respect for such people, is also a factor of security, of unity. Our citizens who are fighting, in a direct sense, for the sovereignty and independence of our country should know that the state will care for the families of these citizens and our fighters. Those who talk about money today, when our countrymen give up their lives in the East, should mention that when we click on the buttons here, accepting or not adopting some kind of bill, destroying the country, there the boys were calling with a machine, stopping the aggressor Putin. That's why we call for this bill to be voted on and found such funds to secure our fighters. Where can they be found? It's very simple. Take the separate articles in the budget that was adopted six months ago that relate to lobbyist things for individual cow leaders and goats in our country, which are led by individual parties, and give it to our fighters. Stop smuggling, in particular in the East. Stop corruption, offshorization. And you're going to have 5, 7, 50, 70 budgets to protect the interests of our citizens who give their lives for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u100	Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you in two words what is happening there today on the social front of the East. Today, more than 100,000 people have stopped pension payments. These are the people who have come to our country and are forced to stand in line for days to prove that they have the right under the Constitution to pay the pension they earn. We believe that this issue must be addressed in the Ukrainian Parliament. Second question. Today hundreds of thousands of mined inhabitants of those who. To whom war came to them in the house. It's the Dangerous, it's the Mountain, it's the Golden, it's Slavyansk and Kramatorsk, it's the people who got hurt as a result of the fighting. But more than a year and a half, they didn't get a penny of compensation, and most importantly, they didn't even get the status of a “peaceful resident affected by the ATO”. And we believe that the issue of social protection needs to be addressed in a very complex manner today. Businesses are operating there today, but their size has decreased considerably. Tell us what jobs may now be in Marinka, or Gold, or Lower, what jobs when they are shot twice a day? Most people spend most of their time in basements, but they do not have the right to retire early, and people are simply forced to embezzle and use only the poor supply of humanitarian assistance today. We therefore believe that this issue needs to be addressed in an integrated, integrated manner, decision-making on the status of civilians affected by the ATO, urgently restoring the pensions of those who have been illegally deprived of pensions today, to organize the issue of the payment of pensions to people who are not controlled.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote, to take up your jobs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? Dear colleagues, I have a question, can I bet on the whole, is there a objection in the hall? There's a denial of Pinzenik, there's a denial of Melniczuk, there's a denial. I'll take that as a base. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the retirement of individuals from the number of participants in an anti-terror operation), number 3252 as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please. [[11:48:33]] For 224 Can I have your attention, please? Dear Society, before the vote takes place, I warn you, there will be a vote in three minutes. It's enough time to get to the hall, even if you're in the towers. I'll put it back on, but I'd very much like us to move away from this practice. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Are you ready to make a decision? At the request of the deputies, I propose to return to draft Law 3252. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:49:38]] For 234 We're back, the decision's made. I am now re-instituting the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for the pension provision of individual categories of participants in the implementation of the ATO 3252 as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote! [[11:50:13]] For 236 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we're moving on. I have a warning in the hall. Colleagues, I have an appeal to the factions that have made a statement. You'll be given now, won't you? Then, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received an application from two factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Radical Party and the Fatherland, asking to announce a recess, according to the Rules, but they are willing to replace the break for the speech. And I'd like to invite you to John Kirilenko's address, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u103	Dear friends, dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. We believe that an event has taken place today and is unprecedented for Ukraine. Friends, take a break with the people and look at the full park and the entire area in front of the Supreme Council filled with scientists. Science protested for the first time in 22 years, just said that from the rostrum. The first time was in 1994 and now 22 years later, science is back in the square. Friends, how painful to hear the words that began independence in the 20th most developed countries in the world and now in the twenties, just in the second hundredth. And the reason is by ignoring science, ignoring scientific and technical research. What's even more disturbing is that at the end of the year, the entire stand voted by constitutional majority for the breakthrough of the Science and Technology Act. And on the second day, we brought a budget in which the law is made of cuttings and legs. It's not that increasing funding for science, it's not that it's supporting science and technology, scientific development and research, it's a sharp reduction in spending on science. It was as if someone had whispered during the night in order to throw Ukraine, not just on the brink of world development, but to throw it into a ditch so that it would never rise up from there as a self - centered, loving, and powerful state. Friends, the demands of scientists are simple and understandable: making changes to the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2016, taking into account the decision of the National Academy of Sciences of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to increase the expenditure of the Academy of Sciences, although by 2015, namely, the National Academy of Sciences by 725 million dollars, the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences by 27 million dollars, the National Academy of Medical Sciences by 81 million, the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences by 89 million. The other one. During the preparation of the draft State Budget for 2017, take up articles 36 and 48 of the Ukrainian Law on Science and Science and Technology on the payment and promotion of the work of the scientific worker and the financial provision of scientific and scientific and technical activities, taking into account the stages defined in Article 1 of the Final and Transitional Regulations. And the third. Postponing the implementation of article 28 of the State Budget Act 2016, which optimizes, reduces, destroys and so on and so forth. My friends, we just made a deal with the Radical Party that supports the demands of science, agreed with the Chief of the Supreme Council that he would accept a delegation of scientists. We also call on the Prime Minister to accept a delegation of scientists. Friends, without the science of the country, there will be no. We support science, we support our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u104	Thank you. I want to report that I've already scheduled a break with the scientists that will take place here on the third floor. I ask the head of the Committee on Budgets, the representative of the Committee on Science and Education to participate in this meeting, which will take place during the break. Now I'm continuing the work of the Supreme Council, provided for by law, for 15 minutes. And I'm announcing the draft Law on Private Detective Activity (No. 3726). There's a proposal from the committee that we take it up with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Anyone who supports the proposal to consider draft Law 3726 as a summary procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:55:20]] For 158. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u105	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Honourable Ukrainian People. For your consideration, there is bill 3726 on private detective (search) activity. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is the point of implementation of our Coalition Agreement. The implementation and adoption of this bill will also allow Ukraine to take steps to meet those successful countries in the world, some 100 of them who have already successfully implemented the activities of private investigators. With this bill, we create new jobs, we give people the opportunity to work for a new chosen specialty. The introduction of this bill does not require budget expenditure, but rather creates the possibility of new taxes. This bill will significantly reduce the criminogenic situation in the country, and the adoption of this bill is our duty to our electorate, who await our positive consideration and adoption of this bill. Please vote on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u106	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Enforcement of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, considered Bill 3726 at its meeting and reached the next. This bill defines the general legal principles and the organization of private detective activities in Ukraine, and regulates, first, the types and legal status of private detectives, the procedure for giving evidence of the right to engage in private detective activities, the types of detective services that may be available to private entities, the issue of personnel training and so on. Procedure for obtaining permission to purchase and store special items I personally, as an author with Mr. Teteruck, Mr. Palamarczuk, Mrs. Prodan, and I think that this is really a breakthrough forward, it's really a law that will allow today those professional law-keepers, who either by age or for any other reason failed to re-test, retired. But they don't know how to trade, they don't know what else to do, sell, (be) work in stores. They only know how to find those who have committed crimes. And in view of the fact that Ukraine and the situation we have today in Ukraine on issues related to crime in Ukraine recently, and the criminogenic situation, I believe that the introduction of this law and the possibility of professionals to work in detective activities will be very good. So I would like to support the committee's decision and vote, take this bill as a basis, redraft and take it all the way back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record the performance: two for, two against, please. Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, Self-Help will support this bill, but only in the first reading, and only in the event that we have the opportunity to fine-tune this bill for the second reading. What are our requirements? First, private investigators have absolutely no right to replace state law enforcement agencies, neither the police nor the Security Service, nor other law enforcement agencies that should ensure that criminals are brought to justice. Question two. Private detectives are not state structures and they definitely have no right to work at the expense of taxpayers, i.e. the state budget. Question three. This is the question of the definitions used in this law, the question of the powers of private investigators, where there will be a distinction between operational and search activity and search activity, in which things private detectives will definitely not have the right to intervene. And only if we understand that the powers of private investigators are clearly defined in the law, not as is now suggested in the first article to refer this to the jurisdiction of the National Police, will we be able to support this bill in the second reading and thus ensure the observance of the rights and freedoms of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, private detectives are not only those who fight crime, private detectives are also those who are reliable advocates in obtaining that evidence to either confirm a person's guilt or help him get out of the law from his actual accusations. I'll say that private detective activity was my first activity in Ukraine as a private entrepreneur. But this has been done within the legal framework, because somewhere in fact private detective activity has long been in Ukraine, now we need -- I urge you -- to make it a de jure normal responsible structure. in which we will really engage both former law enforcement officials and normal people who want to help our nation act within the legal limits. And so I ask you very much, and I urge you to vote for this law, and it is long overdue and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u112	Fedoruk Mikola of the People's Front. And I'd like the people's deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. Anton Gerashchenko. Fedoruk gives Anton Heratchen a word for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u113	Honourable deputies, the law on detective activity, we are merely making the situation in Ukraine similar to that of European countries. In all civilized countries, there is the concept of “private detective activity”. The task of the detectives is to help citizens, legal persons, find the necessary information, collect evidence that will enable them to achieve results in civil, criminal or administrative matters. You all know the examples of United States private detectives, it's an effective tool in restoring justice in society. This law will not affect violations of the rights of citizens. Private investigators will only be able to collect information through official appeals to the authorities by using audio and video recordings in open places, which are now granted the right of the National Police Act to record anyone they want. And I can say that this law is important because the services of private investigators are already being carried out in Ukraine without due legislative settlement. Let us therefore introduce these issues within the framework of the law. This is a perfectly right, reasonable, well-balanced law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u114	Thank you. Since the faction. Aah! There hasn't been a performance since the "Radical Party." Please, Mosiyczuk. And that I understand will be the closing statement. I very much ask the National Deputies to enter the hall to take up their jobs. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u115	Igor Mosiyczuk, "Radical Party of Oleg Lachka." We will normally support this bill. But I would like to draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Andrew Parubia, to the following fact. The Committee on Law Enforcement has adopted a decision on Parliament’s recommendations to establish a temporary commission of inquiry into illegal amber production. Yesterday, as the first deputy chairman of the committee, I submitted an appropriate motion for a ruling. And at the direction of the director of the Apparatus of Mr. Schishinski, he was denied registration. We usually welcome the creation of a working group on the work of amber law, but the UKC on the investigation of abuses is equally necessary. And I'm asking for your personal intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The discussion is over. All deputies, please prepare to make a decision. And take jobs. Ready? I put to the vote the draft Law on Private Detective (search) activity (number 3726) as proposed by the committee on the basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[12:06:13]] For 204 I'll put it back once, but please ask the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Dear colleagues! Everyone's in the hall, right? I'm proposing to go back to the 3726 bill. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:07:28]] For 214 Dear colleagues, no votes. According to the Rules, I should have rejected the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] But since we're in transition, I'm going to suggest that we do the old tradition and make the decisions on the issues discussed earlier. We're rebuilding in stages and in stages, and I'm going to ask the MPs to take this position and put this bill in the chapter "before discussed" so that they can make decisions when they're elected. We've moved the job for eight minutes. And it obviously had a negative effect on the vote. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I am now calling a recess. But please, the next bill is 4288. 4288. I'm asking you very much to take a break in the drafting of this bill, which is very important for the defense of our system. And before the break of those people who are doing that bill, please come to me so that we can make a decision. At 3:30 p.m., Irina Heratschenko will hold a working group meeting under the leadership of Irina Heratschenko on the issue of amber production. At 3 p.m. At 3:30 p.m., I declare. Thank you. Break for 30 minutes, till 12:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the break time is up. I am very much asking to invite the deputies into the hall to continue our work. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next bill of order. An extremely important bill, for strange reasons, we haven't been able to vote twice, it's 4288 and 4288-1. This is a draft law on the characteristics of purchases of goods, jobs and services to ensure that the defence needs are met. A large number of public officials and volunteers who assist the Ministry of Defence in providing for the army are calling on the Ukrainian Parliament to take up this bill and it will now stand before it. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall so that we can look at it fully and so that we can make a decision on it today, it's a matter of national security and defence. Colleagues, these questions have always been, are and will be key, priority, and so I very actively encourage the people's deputies to be in the room, and to participate in the work on this bill. So I'm announcing a draft law on the specificities of purchasing goods, jobs and services to ensure that the defence needs of 4288 and 4288-1 are met. There's a proposal from the committee that we consider it as a reduced procedure. I would like to immediately inform all the deputies who are interested in adopting the following bills that if there is now a full procedure, we will follow it, but the number of bills that we have considered today will be reduced by several times. I've called on the deputies a few times, and I won't do it again. Therefore, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:50:10]] For 111 The decision is not taken. We follow the full procedure in dealing with the matter. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 4288 is brought to your attention. I would like to brief my colleague on the need to submit Bill 4288 to me. It is caused by the fact that the purchase of goods, jobs and services for defence purposes from April 1st must be carried out under a separate Public Procurement Act. In article 2 of the Law, we took a decision in December 2015, which introduced the law of April 1. In doing so, from April 1, of this year, the Ukrainian State Procurement Act, which, according to article 39, applied the negotiating procedure for defence purposes, is no longer in force. Under the current law, open auctions should be held within 60 days, and this is too much of a term in terms of military action that Ukraine is currently in and out of power. In the Ministry of Defence, a working group was set up, and the bill went through expertise in all the ministries involved in the anti-terrorist operation. We have foreseen in the bill the selection of buyers, it will be done through an electronic auction. The planned competitive selection mechanism has already been tested transparently by the Ministry of Defence. The law will be distributed to all entities involved in the fight against terrorism that take part in the antiterrorist operation. It's also a bill, it's limited in action. This law will only work when there is an antiterrorist operation, a state of emergency, or a state of war in our country. And if the circumstances in our country do not have room, we will use them, all will use the Transparency Procurement Act. And if, God forbid, in our country there will be again some difficult historical circumstances -- an extraordinary state, a state of war, a terrorist operation, this law, it will work forever in such difficult times for the country. The law will apply to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, its intelligence agencies, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Guard, the National Police, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection, the State Special Transport Service, the State Service of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. The position of the bill is aimed at creating a competitive negotiating procedure for purchasing as tightly as possible, and this is essential for our strengths. I wanted to stop separately from the fact that the bill intended to eliminate the fictitious participation in the auctions of unscrupulous participants provided for the introduction of responsibility for repeated infringements of the procurement procedure or the terms of the contract. I'll give you an example that shows the need for a standard. This was the case of the purchase of food services for military personnel. This was done at the auction, with 19 participants, 18 of whom then refused or failed to show up for negotiations. As a result, the winner was the highest - price participant. The bill in question will make such actions impossible and will be punished for unscrupulous participants in order to avoid such manipulations, delays, and the collapse of competitions. The Committee of Economic Policy has received official confirmation of its acceptance of the bill, without notice from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Development, the External Intelligence Service, the State Security Department, the State Border Service and other ministries and offices. All unanimously supported the bill in its entirety. As for my position and my statement as chairman of the committee. The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 30.03, reviewed the bill and decided to recommend to Parliament a bill that was supported on the basis of the first reading. There were a few thoughts that we could go to a successful vote and today accept it as a whole. If that's the case, Mr. Head, it's the will of the House, I don't see any problem. But there are a lot of good points to this bill from the Antimonopoly Committee, from the working group at the Ministry of Defence, from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. And so I ask the House to support this bill as a basis. There is also an alternative bill 4288-1 registered in Parliament. The committee decided to base Bill 4288. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrew. Please stay in the rostrum for questions. But before the question is announced, I'm asked to take a message. Dear colleagues, during the break, I met with representatives of the trade unions of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences. Both the Minister of Education, Greenevich, and the head of the Committee on Budgets, Andrew Pavelko, and the Committees on the subject participated in the discussion. And we were able to reconcile in all three positions where the unions came to us, that we could solve them in the term that we agreed together during the budget changes. So on this issue, the tension was removed, and we came to a complete understanding. I would like to thank both Andrija Pavelek and Lilia Grinevich again for understanding and for having an active part in our work. Thank you. Now, please record the question to the reporter, please. Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u120	In expressing the utmost respect for the author of the law, I would like to draw his attention to the following. And this is exactly the way the law will be drafted to strengthen the potential for abuse in the field that will be regulated by the bill. This is the most infamous and today the most difficult accusation of the possibility of using the status quo in appropriate operations that can lead to corruption. Today, we face charges of corruption during purchases. Does the bill deny such possibilities? Thank you for your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u121	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I would like to testify once again that this bill, which is confirmed by all ministries and departments, will be made through electronic auctions on competitive grounds of what is not currently available, is not reflected in the current text. Second rule. The bill introduces the rule of combat, and the law will allow for the fight against unscrupulous participants who are breaking up today. The better the electronic auction opens, the world has come up with nothing, and we are introducing this progressive norm in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u122	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev, please. Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u124	Please, Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u125	Mr. Andryu, Taras Shepherd, Self-Help Unit. I have two questions for you. First, the state forms a defense order. According to the Law of Ukraine, it should be formed not later than a month after the adoption of the State Budget. So, given that we're taking the budget in December, by the end of January the defense order would have already been approved. And that makes it possible to start the process of all trades, to start the procedure of purchases. Don't you think, starting in February, the army had already, the Ministry of Defense, other authorities to conduct this procedure and not complain about it for maybe 30 days, for 40 days, for 50 days? Do we really need to risk and shorten this term to five days, and predict a general risk of corruption when there are two days left when the customer can change the terms of the purchase or service? And that's the first question. And the second question. You're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u127	I ask you to answer that question. But then we have my record, and then I'll ask my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. I would like to report that during the committee's discussion, the MPs stressed that the deadline for the first edition should be increased by 2 days for the complaint to 4 days. We made that decision on the committee. And in this context, I'm going to say under the transcript that in article 7, paragraph 1, of the bill, the words "two working days" should be replaced by "four working days." And in the opinion of all committee members and experts, this will enable all participants to challenge the awarding of the winner if, according to one of the participants, the law has been violated. As for these, the right thing to do is to base your activities on the accepted defense order, I absolutely support you, that always better, when there's a plan, when there's an approved defense order, to move within the accepted concept document, but if, even if there is, you understand that they need to make decisions every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u130	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Question time's up. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymyrovich. And to you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I thank all the national deputies. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u131	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. We're really looking at a very important bill with you right now, considering what our country is fighting today. Unfortunately, of course, at the beginning of my report, I have to say that there are about a third of the national MPs in the session room right now. And this is another proof of the inadequacy of the MP’s composition today and how much something needs to be changed in the Supreme Council. And in fact, the only thing you can change is to choose other people's deputies; in other words, there's no choice, because if national MPs aren't interested in defence issues, then it's hard for me to imagine what they're going to be interested in. So if you say essentially this bill, of course, it's a matter that needs to be settled, it's very important. It's important, first of all, because when the Public Procurement Act (new) was adopted, it had, in my opinion, a bomb of a slow-moving operation, setting a cut-off date. It was specifically written that if the relevant branch law was not adopted by April 1st, then the purchase would take place after a longer procedure, and obviously it would be unacceptable for the front. So, first of all, of course, there was an error in this: you couldn't have made that cut-off date on April 1. It had to be done that when a new law was passed, then these new rules would work, not that from April 1st immediately needed to be reworked. So it turns out that we don't have this law right now since April 1st, and obviously we're now in an abject way forced to consider it. Although it should also be noted here for the sake of justice that this bill was submitted to the Supreme Council on March 23, that is, a week before the date of secession, to the grandfather’s office when he was to work, which, unfortunately, indicates firstly that both the executive and the legislative authorities today do not properly perform their duties. So I also wanted to notice and support a colleague from Self-Help who was just addressing the reporter and talking about what. a state defense order that should be formed, which would also have to solve the problem. Well, unfortunately, it's the same here that executive authorities and parliament don't work and so this moment has not been met. And that's why we're now forced to consider this law. You have to look at it because all of these things weren't done. And why I say I have to look at it. And because, sadly, perhaps because he was preparing in haste, perhaps because of some other circumstances, the original law that was passed under the authorship of Andrew Ivanchuk has a range of completely corrupt risks. Absolutely corrupt risks, which, in fact, when this law was tried, a few weeks ago, it was pushed out quickly on the first reading and in general on the same day, obviously we couldn't vote for it then. You want the Supreme Council to go to the full procedure, to be able to draft an alternative bill, and in this alternative bill, I've clearly shown what, in fact, the corruption risks are contained in the original bill. And we're proposing that these corrupt risks be rectified. So right now I'm asking you, please, colleagues who are still present, listen carefully, put down some phones, stop walking around the hall, and still listen to the corruption that we put in the first option that we're proposing to change. First, a very important point is in article 1 in the defined terms, article 1 in the second paragraph. The point is, in the original bill, the definition of terms is thus prescribed, i.e. it's basically the scope of this bill, that despite the assurances of its authors, there are many of them normal people, but which sometimes do not feel the same level of corruption in the country that there is, I mean the authors not in the Supreme Council, the author who, volunteers from the Ministry of Defence who passed this bill to Ivanchuku. So despite their assurances, unfortunately, those definitions that they've prescribed will allow this simplified procedure to be used to buy any property, any department that is prescribed here. For example, the purchase of furniture somewhere in the Lviv district police station or some office somewhere in Volina or Kiev, which is in no way related to, in fact, an anti-terror operation. Unfortunately, this is how these definitions of terms were spelled out very widely, very comprehensively. So the first one of my revisions is specifically about specification, the definition of terms, where we specifically prescribe that these are goods, jobs and services to ensure that the defence needs are met. This includes: carrying out tasks related to the prevention of armed aggression -- once, carrying out tasks related to the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation -- two, a state of emergency and three -- carrying out tasks for the protection of the state border of Ukraine. Without that general phrase, which was in the first option, this law applies to everything that has to prepare Ukraine for the protection of borders. Well, it's not like that, it's kind of a phrase. It's absolutely such a general phrase that you can treat anything. Second order. In the first version of the law, it was prescribed that the customer set a set of criteria, as in any government purchase, constitutes a set of criteria before that, in fact, the item of purchase. And there was a very interesting list. There was a list of specific criteria, and at the end of that list it was written: other criteria. So this is what I quoted: other criteria. Well, people are good, under other criteria you can write anything. Yeah? And to prepare this order under any necessary, basically, firm that's going to buy, that's actually going to offer appropriate services to the appropriate authorities. You can't make laws like "something else." We need to give specific prescriptions. So in fact, we're also proposing to clear this point of "other criteria" and leave an exclusive list of criteria that should apply to this law. And third, the main problem was that the original bill allowed these criteria to be changed during the public procurement process after the competition was announced. So the criteria are being set out, people are already making their bids, they're actually making their price proposals, and then suddenly, a couple of days before the end, in fact, the criteria are changing, so I'm sorry, they're changing from the ceiling. Obviously, this is a corruption moment that would allow you to set up competitions for specific performers, for specific firms that are close to the authorities, in fact, and it's just as unacceptable. So these three moments we've changed the first bill by proposing our alternative bill. I think it's completely justified, absolutely specific things, clear, not speculation. Because unfortunately, the people who apparently ordered these corrupt ways, they started a company there in social networks against us when we declared the corruption elements in this bill, yes. So we specifically offered on paper what we want, what we want it to look like. This allows you to quickly conduct purchases, with absolutely every corruption element being cut off. I, the Society, have a great understanding of how most of this room feels about my bills and my amendments. I understand perfectly that, despite any explanation, as logical and correct as they may be, I doubt that there will be votes to adopt my own bill. But I urge you and I call upon the reporter and other people of the new and old coalition, if you want the law to work for the defence of Ukraine, to protect Ukraine, to work for the army, and not to be created under the protection of the country by another corruption hole, through which billions will be washed away, you would at least include some of these points in your bill immediately in the first reading, this is mine, I address, and the chairman, and a report to make this law possible to pass the Supreme Council in a more qualitative, more balanced way and would really work for the country, and not work in the pockets of individual authorities. This is especially true of other criteria. I mean, even if you have doubts about any of my other suggestions, I urge you to at least take this corrupt, openly corrupt ingredient, where there is a point about other criteria, when the customer has the possibility of without any reference to any legal acts just from the ceiling, excuse me, from the lantern to draw any requirements to the relevant enterprises and to adjust the competition solely to yourself. Thank you for your attention. I hope, however, that the Supreme Council will in this bill think about the needs of the country and society, not about the needs of individuals approaching specific state flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u132	Thank you for coming in. Now I'm asking the National Deputies, who have the desire and need to ask the reporter a question, to sign up for a statement for questions. Please record. Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u133	Questions. Actually, I was wondering, Jura, can you briefly formulate three, four fundamental differences between one bill and yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u134	Thank you. I've said it in principle, but I'm going to try to clarify it again for the Supreme Council. First of all, we're clarifying the terms, we're clarifying the definition of what this law applies to, what items it purchases? So it's not like it's now in general, it's very widely written in the first version, but we're just saying that it's purely about the backdrop of armed aggression. Secondly, we're cleaning up this corrupt risk that the customer can set any other criteria that he wants, criteria that are not defined, directly, in the law. And thirdly, we're cleaning up the possibility of changing the criteria for the competition after the announcement, actually, the competition. These are the three main things that I think are the most corrupt things that we take from our alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Alexander Kodol, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u136	Alexander Kodolah. Please pass the word to Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like a few phrases regarding Mr. Yuri's speech. Mr. Yuri, you said quite correctly that by April 1, it was necessary to urgently introduce the bill. Why? Because in the Transparency Procurement Act, we made a commitment, we wrote an entire article that we should introduce a bill by April 1st. Regrettably, the authorities did not submit the bill to Parliament, although they might have been subject, and then a decision was made on the committee that the committee would take over. This is the first time. As for the discussion of your bill, and when you say that the previous bill that I'm the author of is a corruption component, I think it's incorrect. In fact, I agree with you that there are risks. Risks are always when a person wrongly obeys the law or abuses the law. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u138	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u139	And there, the next speaker, Katzer-Buchovsky, I will also take advantage of her right to question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u140	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u141	Mr. Jury, I support what you said about the other evaluation criteria depending on the item of purchase, and I agree with Mr. Lewchenk, this will not be in the body of the law. We're cleaning it up. If you want to view my speech as a proposal for a transcript of the bill. With regard to your rule on what goods, jobs and services this bill is distributed, I support you only in part, and therefore I invite you to the second reading so that you and I can't, in fact, buy furniture using a simplified procedure. With regard to the third proposal you make regarding changes in the technical, quality and quantity characteristics of the item of purchase and the qualification criteria for the participants of the selection process only before the submission of the price proposals begins.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u142	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u143	Katzer-Buchovsky is giving me the word further. Dear Mr. Levchenko, I do not fully agree with you, although the logic in your words is absolutely there. I think we should go to consensus, the procedure proposed in the first bill and in yours. When changes are made to the criteria, this period of time should come again. So when a winner is selected in an electronic auction, we have to renew that term. You know what I'm saying. If the criteria change, we are once again giving a certain period of time for participants to respond to the changed criteria. And in general, I think we're working together on the right bill, which is going to be an alternative. Well, it's a combination, but it'll be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u144	Please answer, Mr. Yuri, this is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Look, first of all, about why it happened and so forth, I'm going to say it again. Of course, that's why it was happening, because it was prescribed in that law and basic: April 1. So I pointed out that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council had made a mistake and instead of making a mistake in that law, so not to say that these rules came into force after the entry into force of the new law, they prescribed that, specifically, April 1st, after April 1st, they were cut off. This was wrong and, sadly, it must be decided in an aural way. Now it's estimated, whether it's corruption or not, well, you can call it otherwise, whether they're deliberately written or not, I'm saying by the fact that these things, the way they're prescribed, they give absolutely specific mechanisms for specific corruption. Whether it was done intentionally or unintentionally -- well, you know, you can't let me decide that, let the voters actually decide. As for the evaluation of these three points, which I was actually talking about, which I insisted on. Please, Andrew, continue for one minute. Is there a lot of questions for me to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u146	But I'm going to continue for one minute, I just want to let all the deputies know. We're going to have a lot of time from the factions, from the deputies. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u147	I answer just the questions I have been asked. I'm glad you agree on the question of other criteria, but I'm also paying attention to the definition of terms, which is very important. I've opened your first law, the alternative. And I'm reading, and it says that the guaranteed security of the defence needs, that's what this law refers to, yes. "These are actions related to the task of counter-aggression.".. That's fine. And then, "that's averting the threat to Ukraine's national independence, its territorial integrity and integrity." What is this definition? "When the threat is reversed," you can write anything out, anything at all. So this is also, of course, a very important moment. And one last question. Where you say that if criteria change, a new time is given, in fact, your project gives you only 2 days. If criteria change, you only give two days to correct. Two days for any honest firm that doesn't have insider information from a relevant agency that doesn't have a friend there who's been pouring it all out, two days is not enough to respond to the changing criteria. So I'm also asking you to pay attention to these adjustments. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a faction statement. Anyone who wishes to make a statement under this bill from the factions, please sign up for the speech. Please record. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u149	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. Clearly, Self-Help understands the need to adopt and resolve these issues today in the hall, and what really needs to be supported by the Armed Forces today. However, we warn parliament not to adopt such laws that will allow for manipulation, specifically, to abuse these exceptions and those features that the law proposes. Obviously, it was possible for the Public Procurement Act to make changes -- and write down these features that would allow the Armed Forces, the National Guard and others to conduct, in fact, a simplified and simplified procedure during a special period. Sadly, we write and produce new laws for such cases, and then, by amending one law, we do not regulate another, and we have many different treatments. That's exactly what Mr. Lewchenko did -- he highlighted a number of problems that are described in this law. If there's any way between the first and the second readings, it's hard for me to say. It is evident that the faction will unite all its efforts to make such changes. Why, though, did I ask, Mr. Andrew, a question concerning the defense order? We have long adopted and approved this law, but it is entirely appropriate and proper for the President to make his three remarks. And we actually have the President's proposals on Thursday 26th. Until we accept the change to this defense order and we support the President with this promise, it's actually impossible to vote for this law, because we're going to put them in conflict there at this stage. So I have a request on Thursday for this Defence Planning Act to raise up, to support the President's position, only after that will it be possible to consider the rights to this law that we are currently considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u150	Since there has been a call to me, Mr. Taras, I find it appropriate to take your note, and I ask that this bill be raised above. I'm just going to pay attention to one thing. If we're going into a full-procedure system, sometimes it's very important, and sometimes it's worth it. We have too few laws that we can consider on a day like this. And I also have a reference to you, too, to analyze every bill, somewhere perhaps to support a reduced procedure, and somewhere where the law is important, not to support it. I'll pick it up, I'm already talking about another subject, after that I said it would be resolved, I think it's right for you. Rosenblatt Borislav, please, from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I understand that there are two bills under consideration today, they are on time, I understand the warnings that Yuri Lewchenko has been making, they have a significant impact on today's events in our country, and the risks of corruption schemes, the risks of some incomprehensible actions by the authorities, the heads of the Department of Defense, the National Guard, all of them, they are causing a lot of incomprehensible events that then affect the loud political and corrupt affairs. But I wanted to think first of all about the following. We understand the risks today, but there are other risks. You know, when we're delaying purchases, and you realize that during combat operations it's impossible to wait for any kind of auctions to take place, until the Ministry of Defense purchases some sort of weaponry, some sort of weaponry, we've encountered this problem in the year 14, when our warehouses were practically half-empty, we had a lot of weapons on balance, we had a lot of weapons and we had a lot of technology. Sadly, though, it was nothing. And then we had to buy everything we could to protect our homeland and protect our people. You remember who came to help, the volunteers came. They didn't wait for government purchases, they didn't wait like someone, like some kind of trade. They were waiting only for one, as much as possible, to buy equipment as quickly as possible. I just want to encourage today to adopt these two bills to bring them together, in the first reading, to allow for further development, to remove all these corrupt ones there, and all the risks that exist today. And to adopt a full-fledged law that is capable of doing everything today to make the most transparent purchases possible so that we can have an armed modern army of ours. And another little question. You know the dollar rate, the currency rate. Sometimes we have to buy not only the domestic equipment of domestic production, but sometimes we have to buy it from international companies. And it trades for dollars. During these delays, while 60 days go by, dollar fluctuations also have a very important impact on the cost of purchases. So I want to confirm once again that what he saw, and what he needs today, is this law. I'm going to think it's going to be the only one, one law. We want to propose and ask everyone to add these two bills today as one, to submit it to the committee, to process and make the only law that we all really need. The Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill and also ask everyone to uphold this law, which is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Michael Bondar of the People's Front gives the floor to Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the National Security Committee, I will speak to you in terms of practice. Because I was directly involved in the kitchen of the Ministry of Defense's tender purchases. And there are three very important places for you. First. This law needs to be voted on urgently, because we have a completely blocked procurement procedure at the Ministry of Defense on April 1. Since April 1, we don't buy anything, and in a few days, we're running out of diesel fuel. So this is an extremely urgent question. It's the second one. This bill, written in its procedure, allows for a huge amount of government funds to be saved. I'm telling you in practice so you can understand. Last year, thanks to the negotiation procedure, and the Ministry of Defense has been working on a negotiating procedure all year ago, and now we're improving it, not just terms, but the mechanism itself was the right one. And thanks to this tender procedure, we've saved over a billion state funds, over a billion dollars. Now let me tell you a little story in practice. Recently, there have been purchases of food for the army. And we have a difficult situation in this regard because we have a complex legacy left since the Prime Minister Janukovich introduced the system of outsourcing. In fact, this market we have monopolized and ProZorro used only once. What did they do? Soldier - fed companies provided their fayké clones with an extremely low price — 40 percent, even 50 percent, of a low price. Why was this done? To get ProZorro to take away the cheapest participant who can't actually feed, and then this participant doesn't sign the contract, and there's an old price left. Next, these fairies were followed by real firms, but already at a high price. That was the second element. Because when we applied all the law enforcement mechanisms, we forced them to remove the clones, the firm went to the negotiation procedure at maximum cost. Believe me, if we didn't have a negotiating procedure, we'd be feeding the army at the maximum cost. But the negotiating procedure helped to lower that price. Some have 15 percent and some have 25 percent of the lotteries. As a result, this purchase alone saved 400 million dollars, and thanks to the negotiation process in general, more than a billion over the past year. And finally, the third, very important medium. This bill can only be adopted as a basis now. And it's very fast to work on it so that it can be accepted as a whole this week. Why? Because there are really holes, there are really holes. In particular, it is essential to provide for the procedure of prosecution, especially tech.conditions, as well as tests to conform to technical conditions. Because we've been dealing with cases like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u154	Please. How long does it take, Mrs. Tetian? One minute. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u155	Which, for example, someone's vests didn't fit the technical conditions, and then the first lottah, the second lottah, the third lottah, and then the firm handed over the technum armor bought by the firm that won by arguing the labels, and it turned out that it didn't meet the technical conditions. Because there were abuses at the technical testing stage. So you have to allow companies to sue for technical conditions so that they don't go under a particular manufacturer and test the technical conditions so that the actual competitors don't go into manual testing. So I'm asking you to take it as a basis. During this week, as quickly as possible, gather a committee, process all comments, and accept them as a whole. It's absolutely necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor! I will once again take the opportunity to express my utmost respect for the author of the bill. But the very fact that we are discussing this bill suggests the following. That the Ukrainian Armed Forces ’ security system today is imperfect, to say the least. And we can already make the assumption that it's criminal. Today we are trying to resolve issues that need to be settled by themselves. As we provide, at least in the last two years, the Armed Forces, if there is such a criticism of the security system itself. And tell me, please, why do we need to provide for a special security regime for the Ministry of Defense, which in itself is a special and specialized body. So I think we have to be very careful when we understand the need to address this issue. There is a good suggestion to unify the two bills and perhaps consider them the next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u158	Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u159	Good afternoon! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction will vote unanimously in the first reading of Bill 4288. I am now addressing all my fellow members of the National Deputies. I'm speaking to you as a military volunteer and I'm speaking on behalf of most of the country's military volunteers. We need to now support Bill 4288 in the first reading, work on the second reading, and adopt these bills, which we have to work for and provide for our troops. It's very important. Because we have no right to place all responsibility on our volunteers. That time has passed. The state is ready to take responsibility and provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I now ask all the MPs to support this bill in the first reading. He's supported by volunteers, supported by the Department of Defence Reform, and we military volunteers trust our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u160	Thank you. There hasn't been a speech since Self-Help. Vojcitsky, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u161	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. "The Self-Help Union unreservedly supports our military and our army in their fight against our enemy. And we understand without a doubt how important it is to provide our boys and girls on the front and everything they need to be able to defend our land, our children, our parents from the enemy. But at the same time, we're surprised by the general concept and the approach that today is being expressed in this room, which is, in fact, proposed to move from the approach that was recognized as progressive, like the one that works in the fight against corruption, namely, the ProZorro system to the system that provides for negotiation of the negotiating approach, the procedure. And you know why this is surprising? This is surprising because not least, we want to give an example of our own. Last year, me and my fellow MP, Semimenach, we put in a request to the Ministry of Defense to provide us with information on the use of the Ministry of Defence budget, where the money goes, where the money goes, where the programs go. We didn't get any information, just a reference to the general concept that all the information will be provided on the Ministry of Defense's website. The Ministry of Defence's website was specially opened, and there are 15 figures and everything about the use of the state budget. There's no deciphering where the money went, what needs. And then what we're saying is that we have to reduce the actual procedures for purchasing and using the Ministry of Defense's budget. We're talking to you about the largest budget -- 100 billion dollars. I'm surprised and I'd like to go to a colleague from the People's Front, so many interesting figures, comparisons, maybe you can tell us how we can get this information from the Ministry if you have it, and we don't have any answers to our questions? And the last. You know, it's very strange that if this bill is so important to our army, why isn't there a minister of defense, where he is, why isn't he in position, and why isn't there a presentation on his part? So, yes, on the first reading, we're going to support this bill. But we think he needs a perfect job and he needs to be developed to really ensure the transparency of the Ministry of Defense's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, all of them have come from factions. All the national MPs who wanted to speak from the factions spoke. Dear colleagues, now I explain one important thing. An extremely important bill to provide the army. He may be at risk if there are not enough deputies in the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that there will be a vote now, and I ask the heads of factions, and the factions to call the deputies into the room, and prepare for the vote. While the MPs are going to the hall, and I'm asking you, this is what helped me with the whole hall and the factions, I'm giving Winniku a minute from the speaking committee, and I'm asking you to gather deputies for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, why did I choose to take the floor? I listened attentively to our colleague Victoria Vojcitsky's presentation on the content of the purchases made at the Ministry of Defence. And I'd like to comment on how from the profile committee that's going on with the money that Ukraine, the Ukrainian budget, the Supreme Council is allocating to purchases at the Ministry of Defense. There are two procedures, public, there's a secret, there's a secret procedure for procurement on a state defense order. Anything purchased on a state defense order, any MP who has adequate access to a state secret that he can form in the first department, can see either on the committee, the corresponding document is on the committee, or in the first department, or contact, give access and get it in the Ministry of Defence. As for public purchases, the content of all public purchases can be seen from open sources in the publisher of government purchases and in electronic media that reflect all these procedures. What is this law, 4288? It uses the system as transparently as the Public Procurement Act. The only big difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u164	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u165	In the Public Procurement Act, the term for the tender is 60 days, de facto, 80-90 days, and the prosecution procedure, etc. I mean, shopping.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion, and I want to make a proposal to the committee. We have two bills 4288 and 4288-1. I will put to the vote the following sentence: to accept as a basis 4,288 with the rights that the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, has announced for the transcript. I'm going to make this proposal, and I'm going to take it as a base. Colleagues, please take your seats. Ms. Olena Ledowski, I ask you to take your place and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. The issue of security and defence, which should be a matter of honour and dignity for everyone, and at that point, to miss a vote, is a crime against the Ukrainian army and against the Ukrainian people. Can we vote? I'm voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of Procurement of Goods, Jobs and Services to Guarantee the Needs of Defence, No. 4288, as amended by the president of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich, on the basis of the amendments. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:41:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before lunch, I allowed myself to return to the draft law on private detective activity. If the Hall supports me in this matter, I'll be back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there room support? Dear colleagues, I'm asking the drafters of the bill, interested parties, I'm asking the MPs to call for decisions, to work. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] So please support the proposal to return to the draft Law on Private Detective Activities, number 3726. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:42:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you for understanding. Thank you for your support. And now I'm making a proposal: the draft Law on Private Detective Activities (No. 3726) is based on. Who supports this proposal, please vote 3726 on the basis. Please be clear. People's deputies, we vote. [[13:43:19]] For 231 The law is passed. And we're going to the next bill of order. This is a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of the ATO (4,350). And there's also a proposal, a very important bill, for its consideration of a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote: Section 4350. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:44:05]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u167	Honourable National MPs, your view is suggested by a bill tabled by a number of national deputies from five factions to amend certain Ukrainian laws regarding the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of an antiterrorist operation. The essence of the law is to make it easier for children in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions to gain general secondary education and higher education. You and I have already passed a law that facilitates the acquisition of general secondary education, the obtaining of a certificate for children living in temporarily occupied Crimea. This law is somewhat like that law, but it also helps children to make it easier for them to enter higher education institutions. The law does not carry any financial burdens; the law does not provide any aid when it comes in. It is the only thing that enables children to move out of that territory at one time and to take preliminary exams. Why is this necessary? In recent times, the Russian Federation has been conducting an unprecedented campaign in these areas, involving these children in the higher educational institutions of the Russian Federation. We should not lose the opportunity to get the young out of there, to get the children out of there, to get them out of there. This is our future, they were Ukrainian children, and they graduated from schools and higher education institutions in Ukraine. So I think it's a matter of strategic importance, a question of national importance. Thank you for your attention. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u168	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u169	I ask -- the committee has considered this bill and approved the law as a basis and in general -- I ask you to uphold the law on the basis and in general, because the way of the spoon is to lunch. In May, children graduate from school. If we move all of this to a later date, it will simply lose its relevance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u170	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u171	Dear Head, dear colleagues. Bill 4350 is very simple, it's actually a law about children, how to bring children from the ATO zone back to the Ukrainian highlands and not just the Ukrainian highlands, but the higher ones that were evacuated from those areas. So we give preferences, extraordinary preferences, but we give them to children who want to go back to Ukraine. It's actually a struggle for the people. We need to understand that it's not just the Education Act, it's the National Security Act. So I ask you to support this and understand that the next step in developing this bill is the law that will extend not only the rights of children currently in the ATO zone, but also children from the temporarily occupied Crimea, that is the next step. We are also studying the question of extending these preferences to absolutely all Ukrainian highers within the limits of the quotas to be given. Dear colleagues, this bill is very important, we're giving a signal to our people in the temporarily occupied territories that are waiting for them in Ukraine, waiting for them and creating appropriate preferences for them. So I would like to vote in favour of this law both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Please record two for, two for against. Lensky gives the floor to Oleg Lášk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the bill of honorary colleague Kuril, who is tasked with enabling Ukrainian children to receive education in higher education institutions in Ukraine. Not guilt, but woe for Ukrainian citizens, that Ukrainian authorities did not protect them in Donetsk, Luhansk two years ago when they were obliged to do so. And today, unfortunately, there is Russian peace, and there are terrorists, separatists, and millions of Ukrainians suffering from it. But, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to draw your attention to an equally urgent problem than the education of children from occupied territories. This is a question of immigrants, so - called immigrants, and in fact Ukrainians who lost their homes lost their jobs lost their opportunities to earn money. Nearly 2 million of them moved to the freed territory. Does the Ukrainian State pay attention to them? No, unfortunately, no, not again. People at their own expense, God knows how, they take away their homes, they don't know where they work, they don't know how to treat them, they don't know how to feed their children. Who doesn't know, go to Severodoneck, go to Kramatorsky, go to Slavyansk. And look, when there are eight people in each other's heads, there are at least four or five children living in a small dormitory room. The state has no housing funding, no employment, no medical, no educational programs. And so the Radical Party demands the government to make changes to the budget, to provide state funding for the renovation of housing for Ukrainian temporary residents, for their employment, for their children in kindergartens, in schools, and in colleges. The key task is to support the Ukrainians. And most importantly, make sure they come home, Crimea, Donbas, Ucre.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, according to the law, I continue to work until 14.15 and I have an appeal to you, fellow members of the national MPs. This bill is beyond politics, it's extremely important to the country. And we have a limited time to consider it. And it is also very important for the government to consider the next bill, 4355. And that's why I'm addressing the national MPs, and we didn't have any restrictions on the performances today. All of them spoke on different issues. I have a question, asking you to limit your speech as much as possible so that we can move on to making decisions that are effective. And the request to stay in the hall. These two bills should be considered before the announcement of the break. Please, the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u176	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Our faction will fully support this bill. I insist that it be voted on as a basis and as a whole. It is not just the reintegration of Ukrainian youths, it is the colossal support of our high school students, our graduates, who are now preparing for the formation of the TNP, which is now located in both the Audiowka region and the Marjinka region, in the area of the front lanes where their lives are at great risk today. So simplifying the system of admission to higher education institutions and, in some cases, interlocutors to institutions that are evacuated from the occupation regime is a temporary move, but I think he'll just meet our children, meet their parents, all Donbass and Crimea. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u177	Thank you. You didn't hear me. Shufrich Nestor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we certainly hope that what we are saying today is not only about the issue raised in this bill, but rather about the problem of the entire population. And it is certainly true that today we are talking about restoring their social security and all social benefits and providing them with social protection in places where they were forced to move. But let's be honest, at least to ourselves. Why are these payments suspended today? Because those who voted in favour of the State Budget Act 2016 and suspended these payments, I am now without a name to keep this discussion from stalling. We need to amend the State Budget Act immediately. As for the law that we are currently considering, I and our faction are certainly against the fact that the consideration of this law is prolonged. We oppose the adoption of this law on first reading. Eating something and must unite this hall, so it's the fate of our children, the fate of Ukrainian children is independent of what language they speak and where they live. Therefore, today, we declare that we will vote in favour of this law as a whole as a law. And I hope that this question will unite us today, regardless of what political views we have. Children need to unite us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u179	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u180	I give the floor to Ryabchin's colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u181	Rybchin Alexei, Fatherland faction, Donetskina, associate professor at Donetsk National University in Winnice. I thank Ivan Grigorovich, a member of the profile committee, for giving the word. We know what kind of talk he gave on the committee to support this law as a whole in two readings. So the "Fatherland" faction always consistently and unconditionally supports higher education institutions and all displaced persons. Mr. Gregory Nemira and I were recently on Donetsk, and we also met with the rectors of the higher education institutions who fully support the bill. In the past, we have established a board of directors of higher education institutions. And I'm proud that with the acting minister, a few minutes before her appointment, we discussed a large framework law on the activities of internally displaced educational institutions. This bill, I thank Kuril, who is also the Rector of the Luhansk University, solves two problems. First. It allows for survival and development of higher education institutions that are moved from ATO territories. Secondly, this bill allows us to take our children out of that territory, because it will cost us a lot more to share these children's brains if we take care of them later. It's a very important thing that we've been communicating with the respectable Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich. It's very important that in those exams that children are going to take, there's an exam in the Ukrainian language -- it's a very big political signal in that area. If you want development, and if you want to live in Ukraine, you also need to study the language in order to enter a higher education facility in our territory. This bill is aimed at moving higher education institutions and those in Donetsk and Lugansk who have not moved but also under difficult conditions in the absence of graduates. And I want to finish very much, given that scientists were protesting today. Colleagues and government, which is not available when scientists are already protesting, is a diagnosis for this country. We have to solve the problems of scientists so they don't go there, not the Academy of Sciences, not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall, a question that concerns children in the ATO area. The question that many speakers are calling for is to unite the hall. But in order for the hall to be united, it is vital that the hall be filled with deputies. Otherwise, unity can be ineffective. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies, and I'm urging the people's deputies, Ola the Mantis, and you, too, to take up jobs, to prepare for the vote. I'm going to put the committee on the ground as a whole if there's no objection in the room. Everyone supports, everyone feels the importance of this issue. Then I ask you to take up your jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the right to education of persons whose residence is the territory of the ATO (number 4350) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:59:26]] For 264 The law is passed. Welcome to the authors, the committee and all the factions. Colleagues, there is a government representative who is present and has a request, as we agreed, 4355. Colleagues, 10 to 15 minutes, I'm asking you to stay put. We're going to be able to get through it completely in the short run if it's your will. Please, we agreed to work with the government, we should give each other a hand in making decisions. And that's why I'm announcing 4355. And the authors' request to consider it on a simplified basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[14:00:23]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. And I very much ask all my colleagues to continue their work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u183	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! The bill, which is presented to your mind, is the result of the hard work carried out by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. The bill has a long enough history. The first version was registered in Parliament two years ago. Then were Bills 1159, 3510. And all this time, the debates around these bills continued. Finally, we have the only balanced bill. What is proposed? We correct the error made in 2001 when the Ukraine Code of Land was adopted when land administration powers were passed on to officials assigned to Kiev. Under the Constitution, the land is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, the main purpose of the bill is to transfer the authority of state lands to the people through their chosen councils. I want to emphasize that the ultimate goal of this process is to transfer the entire earth to communal property. I hope that this bill will speed up the process of unification and will have an incentive to really create powerful, self - sufficient and effective communities in Ukraine. The bill also proposes to bring about a system of government control over land use. Because what's happening right now is completely vachanal. These processes are completely out of control, there are massive land captures, the construction of conservation areas, and local budgets are losing huge costs. So we're just offering balanced control, we're giving primary control to local self-government, and the issue of oversight is going to be done by the executive. So I want to end by thanking all my colleagues from all the factions and groups that have joined in drafting this bill. And I'd like you, dear colleagues, to ask for her support on the first reading. It is essential that the main elements of the bill remain until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u184	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u185	In order to remain the main premises of the bill and its main components, it is the transfer of land authority in places, an incentive to unite communities, and it is an effective system of government control. Thank you for your attention, and please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u186	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to inform the proponents of this bill, the longer it will be discussed with regard to this bill, the less likely it will be to accept it. Would it be okay if I didn't announce the committee's report right away? Head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics, Land Relations Please be as brief as possible if you are a supporter of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, we very much ask you to support the committee's decision. There are two alternative bills 4355 and 4355/1, they are absolutely identical, the difference is that the fraction one, the risk one, is offered another part of the authority to leave behind the environmental ministry, the Ministry of Nature to control land use. We ask you to support the bill, it will allow the local authorities today to manage the lands that have so far been in charge of the full-executive service, and the geocadastra has also agreed to hand over some of the authority to control the use of the land to local self-government. The committee requests that the basic bill 4355 be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u188	Thank you very much. A brief report from Dirov Anatoly Borisovich. Dirov? Colleagues, two for, two for against. Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u189	Please give the floor to a worthy specialist in the field of local self-government, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u190	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill, and I ask him to support it, given that today the committee has also considered alternative bill 4355-1 and takes into account the position of the alternative bill in the second reading. Please vote in favour of this long-awaited bill 4355. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u191	Not Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, we are, indeed, very important to this law, we support it, and we support basic law 4355. But I ask you to support the first reading on the basis that we are able to complete some of the problems that are in the law. Because by Bill 4355, the State Environmental Inspection and its territorial authorities have been removed from State control over land use and protection. I think it's absolutely unacceptable, because there are no structures in rural bodies that can take care of this. So I'd like to support it on the basis, but I'd like to put it back on the committee, and I'm asking it to be done on the environmental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u193	Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u194	Self-help supports the transfer to local communities of the right to rule the land, the right to manage it. But it's very important to get these communities first. As before, we see a great risk in that local councils, where, in fact, peasants have no influence and good control over their deputies, who have local princes, local kleptocrats, they will quickly tear up this land. And it's a big risk, and we have to find the safety nets for that risk. Local elections have already taken place, and good communities and councils have been formed in part of the council. But in part, many villages of Kyivska continue to be filled with watermelons and we cannot pass the land on to them because they will quickly steal it and then there will be no basic property in the community, its basic wealth. So we will vote in favour of this law in the first reading. But to the second, we need to prescribe safety nets to avoid the uncontrolled transfer of land to a lease in order to avoid an uncontrollable change in the earth’s purpose. This is very important, without it this law should not be approved by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u195	The closing statement will be. Kulinich gives it to Yvchenkov. And I call on all the people's deputies to enter the hall, and in three minutes, there will be a decision on this bill. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u196	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, at last, the bill that passes the land to the local communities. And there's almost no MP in the room who didn't sign the bill, and there were more than two dozen. Do you remember how we came together around 1159 when we handed over the earth? For a year and a half, years of suffering here in the hall until we passed a joint bill. But whoever reads the bill knows, you know, there's a lot of innovation under the cover of the return of land to the territorial communities. For example, today, communities are awaiting, indeed, an arrangement. What do we give them? We're handing them over land that's been leased for 15-49 years. The law does not provide for a change in the owner's signing of the lease. And I ask that each MP communicate with the local self-government body and identify himself. The Motherland faction is going to offer these adjustments. Next. Colleagues, well, how can you and I pass on surveillance? Yes, part of our oversight is passed on to local authorities. But we unite oversight in the central executive body, which implements politics, and here we give him oversight of soil fertility, and we hand over surveillance from eco-inspection, from land inspection. Colleagues, you can't do cadastral or latitude and longitude farming. We're going to insist on holdinggeokadastr. He doesn't, by the way, have the functions that we pass on to him in the law. We will urge him to change his position. If 90 percent of these functions are intended for agricultural policy and land policy in this context, we will insist that this body be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Just think about it: carrying out fertility monitoring and agrichemical land passporting. Is that what the State Land cadastre is supposed to do? No, it's not. It was an inspection. But today we have to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u197	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u198	And I, my colleagues, propose. Nevertheless, this law is 80 percent in line with the requirements of the local communities. We have to finally hand over the land at our disposal, but those who can make land-planning schemes are owned. And put a dot on that question. And to work out, I'm asking every MP who's been doing environmental inspection, who's had alternative bills, who's been drafting and signing all the other bills, please look, let's do a consolidated bill and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. There's a report from the People's Deputy Ribak that Bill 4355-1 is being revoked. I'm reporting it. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, today at the Committee on Agrarian Politics, we also had what we shared as co-authors of 4355-1, and we made the following decision. Call off our Bill 4355-1 on the condition that all of our observations, which concerned land protection in part of the environmental inspection, will be made, as elaborated in the second reading of Bill 4355. So now I ask everyone, in the first reading, to accept as a base 4355. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-19-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I still have a number of deputies who wish to speak. That's not possible. We're going to knock him down. I'm asking colleagues of the National MPs, we've gone through the schedule clearly, everyone who signed up to speak. Now let's mobilize the hall. Are all ready to make decisions? Please invite a colleague into the hall. I would like to stress that the government supports this bill. Moreover, Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, as the Head of the Supreme Council, joined in his preparations and has just requested his request for support of the bill. In this way, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to extend the powers of local self-government authorities to manage land resources and strengthen State control over land use and protection, 4355 as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote, colleagues, gathered and responsibly. [[14:14:08]] For 251 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Welcome to the government, Mr. Hennaday. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 2 p.m., at 2 p.m., the issue of judges will be discussed. By 4:00, 4:00, there'll be important questions in the courtroom. Please be advised to arrive at work at 4 p.m. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
