ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Welcome to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All national deputies please take their seats for registration. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:17:35]] 379 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, in good tradition, let us welcome our colleagues on their birthday: Alexander Mikhailovich Briginz and Anatolia Sergiyovich Evlakhova. Welcome, dear nouns. [[Applause]] In accordance with the application, I hereby announce the entry into force of the faction "Block of Peter Prashenko "Solidarity" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Negoya Fedor Fedorovich. Welcome. His name is Feder Fedorovich. Dear fellow national MPs, according to the order of the day for the morning plenary session, we have a number of human resources issues to consider. Question: This is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the recall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the dismissal of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the consideration of approval of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine and the permanent suspension of the powers of some Ukrainian national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats, and I'd like your attention. Dear fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, is taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome, Arseny Petrovich. [[Applause]] Dear fellow national MPs. Dear fellow national MPs! The President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Regarding the question of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the following regulations are proposed. The statement by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine; then the statement by President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenka of Ukraine; then, according to the coalition's decision to propose a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine will be presented by the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 10 minutes; then, the discussion procedure will be held for up to 24 minutes, three minutes for the faction and two deputies from the non-fractional. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate on your work. And I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u2	The noble Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. President! Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! My government and I had the honor and responsibility to serve our country, our great country, and our powerful people, who are struggling and victorious. I would like to thank my comrades from the People's Front, the allies who formed a coalition of MP factions called the European Choice: the Peter Poroshenko Block, Self-Help, the Radical Party and the Fatherland -- for making our country stronger. I would like to thank my opponents and enemies for making me stronger. I want to point out that we have done a lot for our country and our people together, but we need to move forward. I'm asking you to accept my resignation. And we have great things ahead of us and great things ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine, I ask you to calm down. Dear colleagues, National MPs, yesterday, April 13, 2016 (pay attention!), yesterday, April 13, 2016, a European Ukraine Coalition of European factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine held its eighth call. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the coalition of MP factions has submitted its proposal for the post of Prime Minister to the President of Ukraine. To represent the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, I now give the floor to the President of Ukraine, Petr Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Please, Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Today, April 14, the second anniversary of the start of an anti-terror operation in Ukraine. The hybrid war launched by the Kremlin against Ukraine needed a decent repudiation, without proper use of weapons. The Ukrainian army that was created from the chariot freed nearly two thirds of the territory occupied by Donbas. Moscow was forced to remove its mask and engage its professional military and regular units. During this time, we organized one of the most powerful armies in Europe and were able to locate the enemy on the Far East coasts of Ukraine, build a deep-sea defense, and, based on an international coalition in support of Ukraine, move to resolving the crisis and restoring Ukrainian sovereignty on the Donbasa political diplomatic path. Over the past two years, we have suffered enormous economic, and above all, human losses, the responsibility of which lies entirely with Russia as an aggressor country. Under the appearance of protection of Russian - speaking rights in Ukraine, Moscow has established a real genocide in the areas of the Ukrainian Donbas, where most of the Russian - speaking Ukrainian citizens live. At first, I turned their lives into a fiery hell, and then I organized in temporarily occupied territories isolated from all over the world, an illegal reservation ruled by murderers and bandits. Russian aggression has claimed thousands and thousands of Ukrainian citizens. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians were homeless, hundreds of thousands had to leave their homes. In Ukrainian-Russian dictionaries, the term "Russian Spring" will be synonymous with the words "death" and "disruption." Right now, while we're here, there's 69,000 Ukrainian military personnel in the anti-terror zone. [[Applause]] Thank you. Since the beginning of the year, thanks to a decision made, including you, to increase the financial security of military personnel, 18,000,688 men and women have decided to enter the Ukrainian Armed Forces on a contractual basis. [[Applause]] 127 thousand 363 Ukrainian military and volunteers and volunteers were granted the status of participants in hostilities, and tens of thousands of other documents are now under review and vetted. We are all in great debt to these people above all, as we are to all the people of Ukraine. They place a special responsibility on us with you: the President, the Parliament and the Ukrainian Government. Strengthening the country's security, properly financing the Armed Forces, other military and security units and structures, restoring Donbas to peace, his return to peace among the most important tasks of the new Ukrainian government. It -- I'll say, running ahead, and I fully support this -- will also create a ministry for temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons. Ladies and gentlemen, today you and I are putting at risk a few months of excruciating parliamentary-government crisis. Even though we were a few decades behind the nearest European neighbors, we were on the ground for months. It's like they were working, but on the loose. From the point of view of the experience gained, there was a positive moment in this story: Ukraine only learns about parliamentary democracy, for which change in governments and the transformation of coalitions is a routine thing, sometimes a complicated but common thing. During these months, I heard many complaints about the Constitution of Ukraine. My position is to learn to live behind it, not grab a pen every time, in order to copy the text of the Constitution of Ukraine at the current moment. The constitutional field is not the place where someone has adapted at the moment, it is part of a particular social contract. And any such steps should take into account the position of society. The Dignity Revolution brought about a return to the parliamentary-presidential political system. Literally, the authoritative international organization Freedom House appreciated the progress that Ukraine has made over the past year in developing and strengthening democratic institutions. And this is our joint result with you. What's important is that we didn't let this mess go, and at the same time, we preserved the democracy conquered by Maidan. This is the acquisition that fundamentally separates Ukraine from Russia and draws us closer to Europe. And as a guarantor of the Constitution, as a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, I was unable to keep abreast of how the country was plunged into turmoil, and the threat of chaos became more real than ever. So I was forced to assume the role of political moderator in speeding up the decisions that you, honourable national MPs, have to adopt today. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the previous government and Arsenija Petrovich for his personal contribution to a civilized solution to a crisis that is fully in line with European political culture. [[Applause]] I would like to stress that the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers is not a reason to lubricate the previous government with black paint and toss stones in the back. There is no democratic country in the face of severe political competition of unity in government estimates, cannot and should not be. Yes, this government has lost Parliament's support because three factions of the coalition have come out of it. We must respect and respect this decision. But the truth is that no Ukrainian government has worked under such extremely difficult conditions as the one that goes back to history today. They've saved the country. The worst in the economy, I sure hope, is in the back. There are new tasks to be implemented by the new government, which I hope will be chosen by you in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament today. These tasks are impressive in scale, and that's probably why there were no queues in the chair of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Taking and making, it turns out, isn't as easy as making up beautiful slogans. [[Applause]] And by the way, I'd like to point out that I didn't find much support for the idea of a technocratic government. When we had to join the coalition, we did not see the queue again. It seemed that the approval of the technocratic prime minister was the only effective vote in the cooperation of such a technical cabinet of ministers with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So now the coalition, I get it, and I've presented a different concept. We will have a politically responsible government, and this responsibility has come to bear the two political powers that have formed a new coalition and the non-fractional deputies who have joined or remained in its composition. I highly appreciate the position of the people’s deputies who have secured this coalition. Yesterday, the coalition invited me to run for Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. [[Applause]] I would stress that Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is a new generation politician. Perhaps according to your decision, he will become the youngest prime minister in the history of Ukraine. Even so, Vladimir Borisovich has already had a huge management experience. I can testify that this is one of the best mayors of district centers, with a record level of citizen support. Top manager of government reform on decentralization in the post of Vice-Prime Minister and Minister for Regional Development. Well, it's not easy for the Supreme Council to lead. And who, if not you, is to know, is a respected national MP. I would like to ask you to elect today the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to approve a new government position in strict terms. In part, let me inform you that, as part of my constitutional mandate, I propose to Stepan Poltorak, the general of the Ukrainian army, again to serve as Ukraine's defence minister. [[Applause]] And I also propose that Paul Klimkin be the minister of foreign affairs. [[Applause]] This military-political tandem has proven its effectiveness in building an effective system of national security and defence. Because it is the President's responsibility for national security and defence and for Ukraine's foreign policy. Of course, my guidance to the new government primarily relates to these very issues. From this high rostrum, I also want to send a message to the country and to the whole world. The new government, like the previous one, will inevitably take a course towards Ukraine’s European integration. No coma is changed in documents that define the basic principles of foreign and domestic politics. The emergence of the vice-premier government, which is responsible for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, is not just a symbolic gesture, but a practical step towards bringing all our government decisions to a common European denominator. The Agreement on Political Association and an Comprehensive and Deeper Free Trade Area for each minister of the new Ukrainian government is the same weight as the Constitution, the Coalition Agreement and the Government Action Programme. I stress the imperative and non-alternative need for continued cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and other international credit institutions that provide effective financial support for Ukrainian reforms. What do I, as President, expect from a new government? The same as the whole society: the beginning of the growth of the economy and the well-being of people. From the survival strategy, which was completely justified in 2014-2015, we need to move on to an accelerated development strategy, from stalling to weakening, and if we can do better, increased GDP should be converted to protect the most vulnerable social strata, those who, because of objective circumstances, cannot take care of themselves. This task will be done only if the government achieves a substantial improvement in the investment climate so that investors feel, not like a cold and apathetic tundra, but like a comfortable evergreen subtropical. There is no need to invent a bicycle. Interactive communication with investors, entrepreneurs will provide any information needed to quickly adopt effective decisions by the new Ukrainian government. The key to improving the investment climate is, of course, the fight against corruption. A number of new institutions have already been created, including the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, the National Anti-Corruption Agency. In order for them to work fully, the government has to ensure, above all, proper funding for these structures, and this is far from the most important task of the Cabinet of Ministers. The government's function on this issue is much broader. He has to make decisions that destroy any basis for corruption. This is a transparent, highly competitive privatization, finally a transparent management of state-owned enterprises (a topic that has already become an illustration in the tongue), an expansion of the volume of electronic purchases, an active motivation for the work of government officials, who are literally starting to work under a new law these weeks. One of the economic ministers promised deregulation guillotine. But she still has not broken down, sadly, on the heads of the bureaucrats. If guillotine had been loaded during the Great French Revolution for so long, Queen Mary-Antoinette would still be alive. I was joking about it during one of the National Reform Board meetings. And unfortunately, these realities remain relevant right now. The nakrad, by the way, continues to remain the site for the harmonization of reform projects, and in a week, I'm looking forward to relaunching it, and the issue of deregulation remains one of the first. It's a shame to admit it, but two years after the Dignity Revolution, business has not yet experienced a significant positive shift on both customs and taxes. Yes, tax inspectors are not liked in any country of the world. However, there is no room for positive changes in the relationship between taxpayers and those who collect them. And this is one of the priorities, the priorities of the new Ukrainian government. Dear National Deputies! I am, of course, upset and disappointed that in a year and several months three political powers have put themselves outside the European and democratic coalition. As political commentators put it, instead of a broad coalition, there was widespread opposition. That opposition is an essential attribute of democracy. I respect the law and the decisions of those political powers that, without giving any chance to the new government, stood up to it. That's why I won't let the coalition privatize the President. And I'm giving my hand to all those political forces that have taken their place in the opposition. Someone to the government, someone to the President, but no one should be in opposition to Ukraine. [[Applause]] With some of you we're full of ideological contemplation, and I'm sure together, we're going to make a few more decisions for Ukraine's benefit. Yes, in the near future, I will urge all of you to adopt, in your second reading, the amendments to the Constitution in part of the judicial reform. I understand your desire to improve her project, but I want to remind you that a better enemy of the good. And the delay in adopting reform means, at the moment, the preservation of that horror that we see in the system right now, that it's not a day of new surprises. Let's start with what is being done by the best country experts and supported by the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the world, and then, if necessary, we will make the necessary adjustments to this document. There is no delay, and judicial reform is both a question of justice and an investment climate. Another common task of the coalition and opposition is to change to the Constitution in part of the decentralization and implementation of the Minsk Treaties as a key element of the Donbas peace plan for the return to Ukrainian sovereignty, with the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, including the return of the Crimea. The key decisions on this issue are to be made here, in this Supreme Council, in this sessional room. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours, I have to be in Lviv, where the efforts of Japanese investors today are opening up a new enterprise with potential in three thousand new jobs, with an exit to the European market thanks to the Association and Deeper and Comprehensive Free Trade Zone. This project began with my meeting with Japanese investors. And during my visit, a final decision was made to increase the amount of investment. Believe me, this is a good sign that indicates a gradual change in the attitude of investors toward Ukraine. To consolidate and strengthen this trend is a task for a new government that is to ensure, once again, the acceleration of economic growth and to start the process of increasing Ukraine's well-being. God Helps Us and Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, a candidate for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is invited to the floor. The report's up to 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u6	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! The noble Ukrainian people! I'd like your attention, because I think it's very important for us today to have a stable situation in the country. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u7	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u8	I want to thank the coalition, the President of Ukraine, for their high trust. I understand the importance of today's moment for our nation. I understand my own responsibility. I understand that you and I have a very difficult time in which we have to demonstrate efficiency, political will to get the country out of crisis, to speed up and change the quality of European reforms, to ensure the continuity of the course of European integration. It all requires consolidation today of Ukrainian society, of parliament, of an effective government that can be the basis for the development of our country. I would like to emphasize that I am confident that the example of our countries, our neighbours, who have been proved that we can do reform and change, to ensure that the transformation of the state is understood by every national MP in this room. People want perspective, they want authority that they trust, and they want to have a decent quality of life. Dear fellow national MPs, I'm not going to the Prime Minister, I'm able to take responsibility with you today for the country's affairs. I think we all realize how important this is today. The government must finally become responsible, open, and effective. We have to restore people's trust, we have to do everything we can to make sure that we don't look people in the eye. I understand the threats we face. In particular, I would like to highlight three threats: corruption, inefficiency of government, and this, dear colleagues, is a populism that is no less a threat to Ukraine than an enemy in our eastern part of the country. [[Applause]] We can talk as much from this rostrum as we love Ukraine, but if we don't confirm it with our own efforts and results, no one will trust us. And everyone present in this room needs to forget about his rating, but he needs to remember how the average Ukrainian lives today. [[Applause]] There's two things that I've always given as an example when I've talked to those who speak well and do little: there's a difference between talking about work and doing it, there's a difference between being able to draw a good and beautiful future and doing it in real life. I want to swear that this government, if it's formed in this room, will be intolerant of corruption, will be responsible for the tasks facing the Ukrainian State, will do everything to ensure the stability and success of our nation's development. We need to build a whole new dialogue with Ukrainian society. We need to talk more to people about what we are going to do and what this government is going to do. And this power must become the authority of a new quality, the authority that is responsible for its actions, the authority that is responsible for the outcome. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that a special place in all activities should be to improve the effectiveness of interaction with the Ukrainian Parliament. It is within these walls that the government and the President must create, not laws, but national Ukrainian legislation that will strengthen our statehood, develop our economy, ensure social justice and restore trust in power. Dear colleagues, I swear that I will serve the Ukrainian people and do everything I can to ensure that neither you nor the President nor the Ukrainian people are ashamed of my work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u9	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have a discussion. And that's why I call on MPs, to those who want to speak, to speak by word of mouth. I would like to remind you that the submission by the President of Ukraine is now under discussion. And I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please record statements from factions. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Roman Semenha, Self-Help faction. He's giving the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please. And I'll have your attention in the hall! And may I have your attention and silence, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u10	Dear fellow national MPs, I'll take advantage of my ability to have a microphone. Be civilized, that's what's important! You know who I'm talking to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u11	Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen! The new coalition, we really want you to succeed, because your success is Ukraine's success. We guarantee you that as the opposition that is national, European, we will be with you and watch you do it and do it with you. But don't get off on the wrong foot, start well. You are strong, and show people that you are strong: vote for the constitutional decrees for resignation, the constitutional decree for the adoption of the new Prime Minister. It is worthy of this state and of those people, it is worthy of you, the people who today take this responsibility along with us all. And second, respectable colleagues. Today, when the Attorney General's Office abuses Ukrainian legislation, we need to be strong with you because this is a threat to the state. May we be strong and worthy of the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Yuri Voropeiev, the Opposition Block. Surrenders the word Yuri Boyk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Before choosing a new government, it is necessary to give a political assessment of the government that is leaving office. In our view, the political assessment of the government’s activities is unsatisfactory. Because the government's business card for a year and a half was a sharp increase in tariffs, prices, and as an investigation, population poverty, a sharp deterioration in living standards, and the government itself eventually turned into a department of the International Monetary Fund and worked directly under its leadership. But along with the political evaluation of the government’s activities, a coalition of five factions that chose this government, which allowed it to work virtually without control for a year and a year and a year and a half, is fully responsible for its activities. The Opposition Block has five requirements for today's and tomorrow's power, which are key to our people and need immediate realisation, and which are real for real. It's bringing peace, it's creating an economic rescue program, it's adopting an honest budget, it's fighting corruption, it's what our people need. We won't. We will vote against the ruling made today in the Hall. Because when we look at the composition of the government that's being proposed: 6 vice-premiers in charge of the Prime Minister, 16 ministers are being offered to join the government. So of these vice-premiers and ministers, only one minister is of origin and worked east of Kiev, eastern Ukraine. All the other 22 government officials are either Chinese or Western Ukraine. We think it's a disgrace, it's humiliation and territorial. Bullying of people. [[B in m in s a l in]] Over those who have been erased from life today and from acceptance, the possibility of taking part in the legislative and executive work. It's wrong, and it's just going to be a humiliation for our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u15	Neda Oleg Anatoliyovich, who gives the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In these days we have a sad anniversary: two years ago, the Russian-Ukrainian war began. It began with some dividing Ukraine into Westerners and Easterners. Because some of their Donetsk monoliths led to the deaths of Donetsk and Lugansk, and the occupied concentration camp, Crimea. So I ask first of all to stop dividing people by place of origin, by party, by faith. We're all Ukrainians. Only one of them is proud of it, and someone is hiding his passport just in case he's called into the GPA. This government that we will be conducting today has worked in extremely difficult conditions of war. Of course, we can now talk about his shortcomings, and I spoke openly and emotionally about them from this rostrum when it was time. But today is the time to gather stones. And it must be said that Arsenius Yatsenuk's government was involved in creating the Ukrainian army! How much that would mean to the occupying bloc! This government has ensured energy independence. And, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we lived in winter without smelly Moscow gas! This government strengthened the city’s budgets by increasing them by 40 percent. And, Yuri Anatolyovich, in Donbas too! So this government is in favour of what to say thank you, and Arsenija Petrovich deserved a round of applause today. It is just as well deserved as it has been criticized in its time. Today, gentlemen, is a historic day. It's historic because we're changing one prime minister to another. Today we have a historic day, for two factions of the Ukrainian Parliament have been able to overcome the harmful Ukrainian political habit of shooting. We have today found the power to form a coalition of 227 deputies that are part of the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front to continue on the road that Midan has given us. Praise be to those who do this, for it is their responsibility. Gentlemen, we have to get used to the fact that the resignation of the government is important, but not tragic. Because the government is not a breadwinner and the government is not a sacred cow, the government is an opportunity to change things for the better in the country, it's a tool. And as an experienced manager uses different tools in his work, so we, the Ukrainian Parliament, hired by the people of Maidan, have these tools to change. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u17	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u18	The next government will not be the government of the stars of Facebook. The next government will not compete in slogans. The next government will work pragmaticly for the people and for Ukraine. I want the government not to receive applause when it is elected today, but when it comes to the Supreme Council Committee and plenary meetings with serious reformist breakthrough laws that will finally allow all of us to speak, not with hope, but with confidence, "Glory to Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u19	Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Party. He's giving Bondar the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, in the last two years, many questions have been raised today by people in coalition activities, government activities. Do ordinary Ukrainians like what has happened in the last two years? No, of course not. And we can't find someone in Ukraine who says they liked anything that happened in two years. Does business like what happened? No, of course not. The law enforcement system is going crazy, the pressure is going crazy, there are no business conditions, there are no investment conditions, the banking sector is down, the currency is gone. Do investors like being in Ukraine? No, of course not. Why did this happen? And it was because five faction leaders, five factions that formed a coalition, unfortunately, in their ambitions with the government got mixed up and went into strife. They just got into a fight and left the country in this mess for a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half and a half, the Ukrainians were forced to carry the burden of all the problems created by the artificial coalition. The tariff war that was fought with the people, the tax war that was solved with business, the law - enforcement war that was fought with citizens and entrepreneurs in Ukraine, and many other issues. What do we expect to do next? Of course, we expect a new government to be created today, that it will understand the problem that has arisen. That old friends who were in the coalition would not become such friends that enemies would no longer need to be gathered in other walls, not by Parliament, but even by Ukraine. We expect the new coalition to realize that Ukraine's revival begins with economic recovery, industry, the restoration of infrastructure projects, from what needs to be stopped in the war between them, to write a plan of action for half a year and to start working on this plan and to report every month on what has been done. We expect ministers to stop populism and the parliamentary coalition to stop populism and to give an honest answer to what's going on in the country and how you see a way out of this crisis. So we expect that common sense will take over and that real order in the country will begin. We need to reinvigorate the system of executive discipline and authority in the country, bring the order in the ministries, bring in the people of authority who will take over each other's industries and take a very quick look at order, discipline, control, executive discipline, and so on. And we will certainly, in this regard, put the new head of government, Vladimir Borisovich, behind us because we understand that responsibility today, the responsibility of all deputies is before Ukraine and the Ukrainians for what happens next with this country. We cannot continue to develop the situation as it developed. That is why we support the creation of a new government. We understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u21	Give me a minute, please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u22	Yeah. We realize that the ministers proposed are not the ministers, most of them, and not the high-quality warehouse that the whole country was counting on. But in this situation, unfortunately, this minimum coalition has been created, let's give them a chance to work out, and even if we can even this situation out, stabilize the situation and stop this, if you'll excuse me, the upheaval that is coming to Ukraine today. So, of course, work, write a program, write a clear plan of action. And if there's any common sense, we'll always support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u23	Thank you. From the People's Front, Teteruk passes the word to Maxim Burbaku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we can say that we have found a way out of the difficult political situation that has destabilized the country since last fall. Then began a targeted campaign to discredit a coalition government led by Arsenius Yatsenuk. We are well aware of who and why this has begun, but all of us will be judged by time. Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk made a state decision; in this crisis it was necessary to put a dot. I am confident that a fair assessment of the work of the government of Arsenio Yatsenuk will be given by Ukrainian citizens later, and some politicians have begun to talk about it today. We hope that the next government will benefit from the work of the Yatsenuk government and will not lose its pace of reform. Today, our main gain is the restoration of the coalition and the formation of a new government. The president and his team, the Petra Prashenko Block, have received the major management weights in our country: they have taken responsibility in their own hands, it is an honorable and responsible mission. For our part, as the second-largest faction of the People's Front and the coalition, we promise the Ukrainian society to stand guard over national interests. The People's Front has consistently held a state position. We declare our partnership and our full support for the new government. But in every decision of the coalition and Kabmin we will stand for the continuation of reforms. This is a policy of reducing resource dependence on Russia, energy dependency, security, trade and political integration with the European Union and the US, confident movement towards NATO, reduction of government debt and stable budgetary policies, raising social standards, reform of the governance system of state-owned companies, simplification of the administrative services system, implementation of infrastructure projects, reform of law enforcement bodies including courts, protection of the information and cultural space of Ukraine. I call on all of us: unite for the sake of our nation and start working. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u25	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Igor Lucenko. He gives the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'd like to welcome everyone in this room. Today, as never before, many national deputies. But I don't think the people in the microphone heard what the session started with today. When Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk spoke with such inspired things, there were shoutings of "young man", "bravo" and "ovation". I think that if society heard these emotions, it would finally be hard to expect adequacy from the political class. I think that society today is far from ovating, and people don't know that they didn't just make a deal or even evaluate what they've been doing with Ukraine for the last two years. And what's more, in the ruling that is now being proposed regarding the resignation of Yatsenuk, the appointment of Hrysman proposes to cancel Parliament's decision on the disgruntled work of the Yatsenuk government. It's not just a contractor. It's a country, a society that's just being held by the ignorant who's watching this whole show. Don't do this show. Moreover, it is necessary to start the matter with honest things. The honest thing is to put signatures on the table for the creation of a coalition, named, just like the previous coalition was created. The country’s signatures did not show why? Because today the coalition will not be created on paper, but a coalition, and I ask the country to look closely at it, the coalition will be created by a vote that will support the appointment of the Prime Minister and the new government. There you will see a real coalition that will rule Ukraine. And I don't think the Ukrainian people will like it. It's different. Please tell me why you didn't put the 4384 Freedom Order to the vote for the Prime Minister's resignation. And they did what directly contradicts the Rules, the Constitution, and the law: they put up a full vote. Packetary means everybody gets shot, everybody's being assigned right away. And that means there's no trust. They're changing seats, not the country's course. And that's why the "Fatherland" party is turning into opposition -- European, democratic, parliamentary opposition. And this may be the first time in the Supreme Council that the pro-European forces represent both power and opposition. And that means that the opposition will be strong, adequate, and not one that will give rise to further corruption, humiliation, and looting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u27	Please continue for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u28	all levels of budget robbery. My dears, our opposition is not sweet, but it is made up of three democratic factions. I am convinced that from now on, when I realize that nothing will change, I need to form a new course of state. And Fatherland is launching extensive consultations with civil society, with professional circles to make a new course of state formation, and there's hope in Ukraine, not a change of chairs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u29	From the "Will of the People" group, Olesia Long. Anatoly Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I am very surprised that at such an important point, few of my colleagues speak of the economy. In fact, the country is in a very difficult economic situation today. I sincerely hope that the new Cabinet of Ministers, headed by you, Vladimir Borisovic, may be the first Cabinet of Ministers to truly create conditions for industrial development. Indeed, the future of our country, social standards and jobs depend on this. I am deeply convinced that what happened over the past two years could not have happened in an economically strong country. We are indeed going to win an economic war with you to consider our State truly independent. Our People's will team is ready to work with you on a plan of economic reforms that will stem from the Ukrainian modernization project created by employers by world leaders. I believe that today it is the main road map that must indeed turn the country from the exporter of raw materials and cheap labour into a country that will provide world with high technology, high-tech products, and create a fundamentally new added value. It is with such standards that we must go to Europe. Otherwise, only Europe will mine, because we cannot ensure a decent standard of living for our people. And the second is corruption, an epidemic that strikes countries with a similar level of economy. We must overcome this disease, otherwise we will never win the battle for investments without which we cannot raise the country's economy. Vladimir Borisovich, we are prepared to work together on this important task to ensure that our country takes a decent place in the world division of labour, and our people have decent social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u31	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm not talking to my fellow MPs right now, I'm asking Ukrainian citizens to understand what's going on in this room: there's a lot of shushing and osmosis going on. No one in society sees a new coalition formed in Parliament for one reason, because there is no coalition. All those who claim that there is a new coalition in Parliament that has put Mr. Groysman in the prime minister's office will be convinced in a few minutes by the Ukrainian society's vote that the coalition is democratic, which is spoken of by two factions, does not exist, and in fact there is a "wide coalition" with the Party of Regions, with the drawbacks of the Party of Regions, which today is in the oligarchic groups. This is a real coalition formed by President Dustenk. And we need to tell the truth to society. Next dumpling. We are offered a ruling: the first item is to release Yatzenuk from office, the second item is to revoke Parliament's decision to recognize the negative work of the Yatsenuk government, and the third item is the appointment of Groissman as Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a very big request for you. We ask of you, I ask you: to abide by the requirements of the Constitution, to vote separately on the question of the Prime Minister's resignation, separately – the question of the appointment of the new Prime Minister, to stop doing the shrug you did here in Parliament, you continue to do it in the end, and in the government you will do the same. Now to the citizens of Ukraine, we're hanging a paw on our ears, telling us: a new government, a new Graceman, look at the new Graceman, a new Graceman, a new policy, and they're going to do something. Will there be one person in Ukraine who believes in new politics? Whether there will be one person in Ukraine, that the new government of Dustenka-Grysman is not an oligarch government and not a treaty government. You're going to see it now by the results of the vote. Why did the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, who said in his speech, quote the vice president: "I need investors to feel like they're in the tropics." Of course, who, unlike President Prashenko, would know about the Panamanian tropics, the Virgin Tropics, and all the other tropics? But he left here for one reason: President Poshenko doesn't want to see this disgrace, when Parliament now pretends that there's a democratic coalition that changes government, and in fact it's a clan struggle, it's an oligarch fight, and as always, the Ukrainian people remain extreme. I'm warning Ukrainian society, we're with you today to witness President Dustyenko's attempt to usurp power. The unconstitutional formation of the coalition, resulting in the unconstitutional formation of the government along with the Party of Regions. This is all the way to the usurpation of power. As the opposition faction of the Radical Party, we will not allow Dusty to usurp power!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the factions have ended. But according to the Rules, it takes six minutes to speak from the national deputies. Six minutes, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u34	National deputies, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u35	Please, colleagues, please record the performances from the National MPs. Please sign up. Alexei Lensky, Radical Party Volodymyr Parasuku gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u36	Thank you, Radical faction, for giving the word. You know, the farther we go from a date called the Dignity Revolution. Majdan," the more we forget about the principles that killed people. And that's what we all need to be aware of. Please tell me, in 24 years, why couldn't super-great professionals build something normal in this country? They're still saying they're going to build something. Would you please tell me if someone in that country would take any responsibility? Or did Shockin not do anything when he was sent to the Attorney General's Office for a year, but would he just retire? Or will our ministers who have brought the country into poverty simply go away? Can you please tell me when there will be responsibility in this country? When will those who have led this country to such things be blamed and punished in this country? As to the situation that is now taking place in our country. Of course, it is not sweet, and some political decisions need to be made. But look at what Parliament has become. The healthy normal political dialogue that existed at the beginning turned into political blackmail, which is decided in the President's office, which blackmails each other with elections, who will be Prime Minister, who will say what. And to the end. At the Cave Court in Kiev, a court is held against a prosecutor who has opposed the system. This is the conclusion of our prosecutorial system, which is in Ukraine. And finally, about Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. He very much wants to become a prosecutor of Ukraine, and under him they will now change the law. So I want to say that for months you've been pulling the processes that our state needs, saying that this is a difficult political situation, which requires a lot of discussion, in order to free the place under Lucenka, you're willing to go through this decision in one day. So what I'm saying is that this post-communist cosmopolitan political elite has led our country to the way we live. And if Lucenko is there. Attorney General, you'll see what happens. Like "songs," and the ones that Midan stood against, they'd be there to help him work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u37	Sergey Vlasenko gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u38	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What's happening in the country right now is not just a parliamentary crisis, it's not just a government crisis and it's not just a coalition crisis, it's a crisis of trust in power in general after two years of the Dignity Revolution. And can we now talk about restoring trust if the restoration of trust starts with fraud, if we're talking about the resignation of Jacinyuk, and at the same time we're offered to accept his work as satisfactory, is that how? Why, then, resign from his assignment, and in what way does the restoration of trust take place? We are invited to violate the Rules, break the Constitution, and thus begin to restore confidence in power in Ukraine. I'm asking questions about the leadership of the Supreme Council. Why isn't our "freedom" decision for the authorship of Leuchenka 4384 on the resignation of Yatsenuk currently under consideration by Parliament, where there is no point in acknowledging his work as satisfactory and where the appointment of the new Prime Minister is not at the same time a package. Why is this ruling not in violation of the Rules? It's a violation of the Rules again, it's a contractor again. You're talking about restoring trust. Restoring trust when we don't know who's joining the coalition? Do we have a secret coalition in our parliament? Is this a restoration of trust? You'll see, all citizens of Ukraine, a real coalition. There will be a real coalition on the board now with former regions that will vote. This is a real coalition! You're saying you can't go to the next election because it's gonna be a rematch. It's a rematch now. Now you're voting with the regionals! There's a rematch! And to stop this rematch. No, unfortunately, is now the guarantor of the Constitution in the Hall. That's his authority. To disband the Supreme Council, where there is no coalition, because it is still gone! Stop this fraud. And go to the early elections, reload the power and get a mandate of trust from the people. This is the only way. To hold positions, to hold on to corruption flows, to hold on to distribution and to hold on to a lot of positions is no way out. We haven't heard any government action plans. What is the government's plan of action? What will be the novelty of this government? What else will be compared to the government of Yatzenuk? What will change? We don't know anything. So society, the only way out of this situation is to reinstate power. If we don't want to get the situation to explode, nobody needs it now. No one needs now that we have an external enemy to lead the situation to a social explosion in the country. So the only constitutional legitimate path is to reinstate power. Everything else is a job grabbing. And it's not a solution to the crisis, it's a continuation, and it can only explode. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, we still have time for one performance, but this will be a closing act. There will be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. And Paccan passes the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners! In fact, there are two different things going on in this room. There are people who have taken responsibility for the country’s beginning to change for the better. These people have joined a coalition of over 235 people, 227 of them in the BPP faction and the People's Front. Thus, the faction of factions and nonfactions has more than 230 votes, and each day it is filled with new statements. The Constitution requires a new Prime Minister to be nominated by a coalition of factions that have more than 226. And that's the number in two factions of BPP and the People's Front. And that's what pisses off those who want to scream about Calicia. It won't work, gentlemen! We're going to build a country, no matter what the general opposition wants. The Shiropa will not rule in this country! Maydan’s orders will be carried out in this country! Corruption will prevail in this country! In this country, jobs will be developed as the only way to overcome the poverty you're parasitic about. It is in this country that business rules will change. Yes, from abroad they will come here and ours will work abroad, but for the money of the oligarchs, faction leaders on private planes will not rest on the islands! Yes, not all will be done in this country at once. There will be no paradise from tomorrow. Yes, the whole country is fighting on three fronts. Because we don't just have a war with the Kremlin, we have a war against corruption, and we have a war for a new economy. And we'll have to fight for it. Those who joined the coalition are the soldiers of this Ukrainian war. Those who scream to scream are the ones who help the enemy, that's his fifth column. I respect the opposition, I have often been there myself, but the opposition must be to the concrete steps of a particular government, not to the country for the sake of a naked pianist and a second Sabbath in the elections. No, sirs, that's it! I understand why our wide opposition is so sad today. There will be no election! There'll be work to do! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Colleagues, please take your seats. Ready? I invite you to the Presidential Hall of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyunka, to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u42	Dear fellow national MPs! I believe that it is very important today to restore the confidence of Ukrainian citizens in power. But I would like to emphasize that it is very important for each of us to be extremely responsible. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can scream, you can scream, you can do anything, but that's no reason to scream when the country needs very clear and balanced decisions. Dear colleagues, I think with your support, with your help, with our joint coalition, with the support of the President of Ukraine, we have a chance that we will use to make Ukraine a success. And all this talk in this room is going to go down in history as just the words that we've been hearing from this rostrum for decades. And unfortunately, in 24 years of our independence, all those who were not once in power in executive power were unable to succeed in a country that is extremely rich, such a beautiful nation, a country that has enormous potential. And when we look at the borders of our country that are western and we see success there, we see a high standard of living. So what I'm saying is, it's a shame for all those who haven't reached out in 24 years to give people the opportunity to live more humanly! What you're doing here is a disgrace! Glory to Ukraine! I'll show you what government rule is!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. And I'm voting for the entire draft decree, which was passed by the national deputies Yuri Lucenk and Maxim Burbak, number 4423 on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Anyone who supports this decree 4423 as a whole, please vote. Vote. [[11:34:23]] For 257 Decision taken. It's been decided. Welcome to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his election. [[Applause]] Please include the factions. Dear colleagues, in connection with the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman as Prime Minister of Ukraine, he wrote an application for his resignation from the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at his request. Ladies and gentlemen, two words for Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u44	Distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I'm an emotionally and psychologically balanced person, so you can yell anything you want, but it won't take away or weaken my resolve. Today I am in charge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I've worked with you for over a year and a half. This is an extremely big lesson for me. But I know that this Ukrainian Parliament, perhaps in very hot discussions, has been and remains effective. The laws, which are honest, open, public, find support for the vast majority of Ukrainian national deputies. You and I have formed all anti-corruption legislation. We recognized Russia as an aggressor for the first time. We've been decentralizing power with you. We started a series of other systemic reforms, started forming a new police force. But we still have a lot left to do to make Ukraine really successful. I believe that one of our great acquisitions is the formation of a so-called visa-free package that will allow Ukrainian citizens to travel completely freely in Europe in the near future. But I would like them to travel Europe and the whole world, but they always feel comfortable in Ukraine. You and I have approached the reform of the Ukrainian Parliament. I deeply believe that we can, together with you, change the relationship between the Ukrainian Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers. You and I are one thing. We have to work in such a way that both MPs and civil society, and the expert environment will be as involved as possible in shaping our national strategy. All I ask is that we do not need to stop the reform of the Ukrainian Parliament. Because what we did with you -- 52 recommendations -- is institutionally going to make this parliament better, better quality and more professional, and they're going to switch conversations to real things. As you know, yesterday's coalition supported the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia. I remember a year and a half ago when I came to this hall, as I always say, through the door of the Supreme Council Head, and I got a tremendous experience of our work together, and maybe I made mistakes like all people, but I was always honest. I went to Andrija Volodymyrovich and said, "Mr. Andryu, it will be a great privilege for me to work with you." And I want to say that for real this time working with Andri Parubius was a great honor, because I always had his support and understanding for the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Oksana Ivanovna, I want to thank you for our work together, for always being the only team, and this is very important. Colleagues, I want to thank every deputy, every faction leader for our hard work. I swear that we will work together to shape decisions that will benefit the state. We're going to have a hard time. But I know that we can do this, regardless of whether we're in power or in opposition, and depending on how much we love and feel inside Ukraine. I want to say the big words of gratitude again, and I want to wish us a quality future together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. And I, honourable national MPs, in accordance with article 76 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote the motion to withdraw Vladimir Borisovich Groysman from the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the application. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote, fellows of honor! [[11:41:16]] For 282 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. [[(Laughter) (Applause)]] Dear colleagues, are we ready to move on to the next decision? Ready. Please, the next question of the agenda is the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is carried out in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, yesterday, 13 April 2016, a coalition of European Ukrainian MPs met in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, at which a decision was taken on the nomination of the national deputy, Andrija Volodymyrovic, Paris, to serve as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, are there other proposals for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? [[B in m in s a l in]] If there are no other suggestions. There's an offer. I'd like to give the floor to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, what I have warned you about is unfortunately very modest to announce the results of the vote for the appointment of the Prime Minister, I will announce these results for the entire country. The Petra Prashenko Block is 131, the People's Front is 75, together with two 206 deputies, that's the real coalition. Everyone else who voted is "The Will of the People," this is "Rebirth," and these are former members of the Party of Regions that are today formed into oligarchy groups. So I say that Prime Minister Groisman is chosen as the result of a deal with the oligarchs, with the losers of the Party of the Regions. There is no European in the House of the Coalition for Democracy. In fact, in the coalition today 206 deputies, the Constitution stipulates 226. So today we are with you eyewitnesses of the usurpation of power when they take control of a coalition that does not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u47	Thank you. If there are no other suggestions, I suggest that we move to the room. This is a matter under the Rules that we should vote on. Anyone who supports the proposal to move to the discussion, please vote. Please vote. [[11:45:23]] For 258. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u48	Let's move on to the discussion. The procedure for considering the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by article 75 of the Rules. And according to this order, the candidate's scheduled presentation with a report on the programme of his activities for up to 10 minutes, and then the discussion of the issue, the factions, and the speeches of the national MPs. Thus, I invite you to speak on behalf of the President of the Supreme Council, Andriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, we all have a very responsible day in our country today. And I'd like us all to go through that day with dignity. I'd like all of us to feel the responsibility of what's going on in this room right now. It's not just a reformation of the government, it's a question of a demonstration that Ukraine, as a state, is capable of accepting and responding to the most difficult challenges. And this is happening at a time that is most difficult for the modern Ukrainian state, at a time when the invaders are standing on our land. I have often said and repeated that at all times of our nation’s creation, our greatest curse was the struggle between ourselves and the loss of guidance. As a millennium of curses, from fighting under Kalka, in the time of Ruin, 1918, mutual defeat led to the loss of the state. I stress that the lack of military power, not economics, has led to the loss of the Ukrainian state. Today, we have the responsibility to win this war. Two years ago, I signed a decree on the beginning of the ATO. Before that, we were all at Maidan with you. And I'll tell you, we won because we were all together. Because we have not divided ourselves into different groups into a few different courses. And the same challenge lies before us today, society. We have a unique situation, for the first time in 25 years in modern Ukrainian history, we have a pro-European, pro-European majority and a pro-European, pro-European opposition. That was not the case for 25 years, society. For 25 years, we had a conflict between the forces of Ukraine, the pro-European forces and the pro-Russian forces, which was a fundamental variance and fundamentally different values. We were able to break this trend on Maidan. And today, like any civilized European state and coalition, and the opposition have the same view of fundamental things for the Ukrainian state. Joining the EU, NATO, foreign policy, winning the war on the invader are common values that unite us. And we need to learn to live in a new way. Not in a war of destruction, but as partners, in a dialogue that can discuss many issues, tactics, but always remember that we are the only ones in key tasks. Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has always been the site that was crucial for stabilizing the situation in the country. I'll remind you, when we came from Midan, in fact, the Supreme Council became the site where we were able to demonstrate the ability to change power at that time. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the one that should have the greatest communication with society. But we must jointly increase the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it will never be done by one Supreme Council Head or presidency. This can only be done by us as a group, together, all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, elected by our citizens. We must work together to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the center of decision-making in our country. And this is the task that all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine must do together. We need to increase communication with society in order to tell them about the decisions we make here, sometimes difficult and unpopular. But only all of us can do this. I can only promise that if I receive such an honor to be elected, I will do my utmost to be the Head of the Supreme Council of all the National Deputies. So that we can work together and work together, and so that we can make decisions together, as we have often done in the past year and a half. To that end, we will be most important (the society, I ask you to hear) to remember that above the political interests and personal ambitions of our nation, it is always the state’s interest to wage war with the invader. We need to keep in mind that, at the most responsible moments, we must learn to see Ukraine throughout politics. And I'm sure we'll win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the factions. The Radical Party, Andrey Lozova. Oleg Lazko, Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have one wish for a candidate for the presidency of the Supreme Council: as opposed to the predecessors, to abide by the requirements of the Law on the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Today’s events in Parliament, including a lack of respect for the Constitution and the Rules. One more fact. Right after the prime minister's vote, a lot of people are writing to me in Facebook that, from the Radical Party faction, one MP voted in favour of Prime Minister Groisman's appointment. I want to inform Ukrainian citizens, this is Vitko's carcase that came out of the Radical Party on September 18, 2015. The Radical Party faction did not vote for the appointment of Groysman. I'm asking Andrey Paris as the next Head of the Supreme Council to make changes to the information that's being distributed that's unreliable and to point out that Vitko is non-fractional. There's no relation to the Radical Party faction bought by the BP carcase. And we don't need to be discredited in this way. With regard to the vote in favour of Mr. Parubia. The Radical Party faction will support Andria Parubia as head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u52	I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergey Soboljeva, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, everything that is going on in the hall today is very much like Janukovitch's arrival in 2006, the same voices, the same persons and even the same performers. Only then was the very famous Socialist Party, which so actively supported Yanukovic and made him Prime Minister. We thought that such historical moments would somehow teach this room. Unfortunately, we didn't. What's going to happen is not a factor in who voted for the Prime Minister, because it's clear. Unfortunately, it was not a democratic European coalition. Unfortunately, today the democratic European coalition, as it has since 2012, is in opposition. And that's where all the key decisions that apply to the European vector of the state will be prepared. But these decisions should be made through the Supreme Hall, not through places where secret meetings take place, which are then taken into the Hall as a decision. That's why we hope that the new old leadership of the Supreme Council will draw the key conclusions from that period, the difficult period that we have lived. First. We will never let anyone vote for each other in this room. And this is going to be the key moment that we're going to control. The other one. We hope that the legislative initiatives that are important to the country will be introduced into the hall, not for years, to be considered or not considered by the Committees in breach of the rules of procedure. Third. We hope that the corrupt laws of Janukovich’s property that allowed the state to be looted will never appear in this room, resulting from clear formulations of the Anticorruption Committee, the Committee of Law and those committees that stand guard over the fight against corruption. That's exactly what's going to be relevant for our session room. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Welcome to the word of the People's Deputy, the faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u55	First of all, I would like to address the Ukrainian citizens, especially the people of the south-east, to our electorates, which is indeed happening in the plenary room. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has now consolidated a temporary solution to the establishment of a coalition that no one has seen. No one has seen the signatures of the sokoalia, but it is clear from the vote that the de jure coalition does not exist, that in deciding on the establishment of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, possibly the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be assisted by other parliamentary groups and extra-departments. I mean, we don't actually have a coalition. At the same time, representatives from the Radical Party's former coalition from Self-Help say that they are the true opposition, and the former representatives from the Self-Help Party also say that they are the true opposition. In doing so, you will not deceive Ukrainian citizens; you have taken direct part in the same portfolios to join the coalition. And all Ukrainian citizens know that. I would like to say, however, that the opposition bloc does not take part in this process in principle. Because we see that actually the coalition that came as a result of the coup d'état is not viable. We understand that the only solution to the current political crisis is the re-election. How they did not form this coalition is because you actually recognize your insurmountability. We are saying that there is actually a violation of the Constitution. Because we are actually voting against, respectively, the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine said that we were not given words as opposition. And we're actually being ignored, we're actually in danger. And that's why we're saying that we have to go to the elections. In no case should we vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u56	Please, let's move on. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Vitali Homutinika. National MP Bondar, please, "The Rebirth Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, today the question is once again that the procedure for re-election of the leadership of the Supreme Council, the head of the Supreme Council, is now under way. And in fact, we understand that after all the votes today, there's going to be a transformation and a coalition, and a work in Parliament, and a parliamentary majority, who will continue to be responsible for all the events that will take place in government and in parliament. Our two groups, the "will of the people" group and the "rebirth" group want to make a statement on this issue, and make a separate statement. The point is that today there are so many accusations that sound again and the subject is raised who is under what flags when he was under? So I want to state that most of the deputies of our two groups came to this Parliament on February 20th and decided to stop the war on the streets of Kiev, the decisions after which Yanukovitch fled the country, and the decisions that enabled the country to get out of that crisis, to make it possible to hold early elections. We helped then to form a majority in Parliament, which effectively resisted the East War, which allowed all the army to rise up, get back on its feet and so forth. What happened after that? The next election came, we came to Parliament, and almost most of our deputies were elected in majority districts. Regrettably, the then authorities, today’s past coalition, had the advantage of doing everything they could to show that they were the only ones and that there were no opposition in Parliament. They used power, they took away all the opportunities for our representatives to work properly on the committee, they took away all the seats on the committees, they took on virtually all the committees, all the seats, and so on, they basically usurped power in Parliament, and they didn't do anything in these two years. We now demand that justice be restored and that the committee decisions be reconsidered and that the opposition be represented on the committees. What needs to be done is, on the last visit to Brussels, you've been shown this issue, and even the head of the European Parliament, Mr. Schultz. That's what Mr. Cox told you. That's what European Commissioner Han told you. That the opposition should be represented in Parliament in each committee in the governing positions. That the opposition has the right to make demands for voting in parliament, for bills, and you have to listen to the opposition. That's why we're two groups: "The will of the people" and "The Rebirth" -- we need to review the committee decisions. And then we're ready to make decisions with you under the new leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Welcome to the word of Yegor Sobolev, the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u59	As much as there is no dispute between us, we all represent people here, we're all elected by the people's deputies, and in fact, to the self-help of this Parliament, in all its weaknesses, is the best body of government. For the previous speaker, you and I have passed a lot of good laws, which is important anti-corruption legislation. Now it's time to move on. First of all, we're talking to Andria Paris. We need to finally destroy the buttonage. All buttonheads must be punished until removal from the Supreme Council Hall. The other one. There are many friends who have advised us to do so in the European Parliament. Indeed, we need to organize the work of the Conciliation Council so that it is a place where all factions together decide what laws to take. And the laws have to go to the Rules Hall, after the committee discussion, after the business discussion, with civil society, with experts, among the political forces. Another important task that, we think, along with the new speaker, Parliament has to implement, it's a control function. "The year of questions to the government" is often just lies: I can't see, I can't hear, I can't say anything. It's time to move on to the organization of real parliamentary debates so that all factions can learn from any member of the government about his policies, get real answers and express a truly qualified assessment. It is equally important that we, as Parliament, organize control and control over the President's activities. It's important for the civil development of the state, it's important for the President himself, it's important for Parliament and it's important for citizens. To make the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, to organize an impeachment procedure for the President -- this is all we need to do in order not to rush into new shocks, into new blood, into new non-civilized methods. We think Andrew Parubay has a lot of experience working in Parliament, and he's seen people die as ideals, including this Parliament. And we are confident that, together as a parliament, we can make a truly Ukrainian effective and worthy Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u60	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, I continue our work until the conclusion of this debate and invite you to the address of the national deputy Yuri Solovya, "The Block of Petra Prashenko". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u61	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency. Dear colleagues, today is an unforgivable day in history. And that's why I'd like to turn to Ukrainian history, from a thousand years old to today. Why has it always happened that, having the best land in Europe, having the strongest armies in Europe, having the most talented and intelligent people themselves, Ukraine, unfortunately, had not had a Ukrainian state for a thousand years? Why did this happen when we have always been attacked by enemies, Ukrainian princes, Ukrainian elites, always instead of uniting, dividing power and giving power to this enemy? I want to remind you of the words that Andrew Parobius said yesterday at the coalition's councils about a century of history. When Kraradsky, Vinnichenko, and Petlura were given a chance to build a Ukrainian state. They also found thousands of arguments to accuse each other of not being right, and the other, they found and ended up having spent their time in emigration and putting the Ukrainian state 70 years under Soviet Union oppression. I want to remind you of Ukraine's new history of the decade when we had the first Maidan and when we had new democratic leaders. And I want to remember how our new democratic leaders' struggle for power ended. It ended with the fact that the pro-Russian Yanukovic came to power, and it ended with what we had been feeling for two years, every Ukrainian state. And so today we have a choice, and we have a choice today: either to repeat the mistakes of history that have been demonstrated by Ukrainian elites for centuries and millenniums, and not to unite, or to resist criticism, of all and find within ourselves the forces to unite and move forward. From this rostrum, I want to thank Arsenia Yatsenyuk. I know it's not popular today in our society, but I want to say it's a strong step and it's a new standard of Ukrainian politics. This confirms that we are slow, but we are moving towards European standards. I don't know if we're gonna make it, but I know we're moving right, I know we're moving and we're showing the possibility of unification. And I believe we're gonna make it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u62	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the statement of the National Deputy Victoria Sumar, the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Andrew Parubius and I have come a hard way. I remember the first day of Maidan, when we journalists, public activists, arrived there. The first politician there was Andrew Parobius, who asked if he would bring a sound to continue the protest. And this will confirm many of my colleagues here. Andrew Parubius wasn't just on Maidan -- he lived in Maidan, he was Maydan, actually, because Maidan was in it. Everyone knew him there. Everyone could see his power of spirit. It was him who created Midan's hundreds, who was the head of Midan's Self-Defense. It was in the most extreme conditions and in the most extreme times when Majdan seemed to be able to stand still, that he made extraordinary decisions. And Majdan was alive. It was there that he was wounded, right after Maidan that he found himself in the epicenter of war when he became Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence. And it was he who was at the base of the National Guard of Ukraine, like the self-defence of Maidan, who were at the root of Russian aggression. Andrey Parubay was on the front a number of times, and then, when he was Parliament's First Vice-Speaker, he was largely the reason why the reform laws themselves were passed here. You know, there are probably politicians and politicians who are always guided by how to frame someone and how to look more comfortable today. There are politicians who think about their ratings, who think about elections, who think about power. And there are statesmen who are thinking about a country that is thinking about its future who are willing to offer their ambitions and the desire of power to sacrifice to the interests of that country. Andrey Parpuy among the Ukrainian politicians is such a statesman. It's a great honor, Andrew, today I'm going to press the button for Andria Paris as speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament. And it is a great honour for Parliament to have an official as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u64	Thank you. And from the "will of the people" group, the national MP, Olesis Long. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u65	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, today is, indeed, a decisive day. And when there's such a heated discussion about the coalition, its multiple composition, when there's a relaunch not only of the executive, but also of the de facto leadership of the legislative branch of power, when we're talking about that there's a difficult path ahead of the non-popular reforms. I think it's the same day that we have to review the principles of Parliament's work, when we have to say that regardless of the great respect that we have for individual personnel, for their merits, we have to start working today in Parliament and, in fact, form the majority, coming out of non-declaration, not the past, but how we will work in the future. Therefore, with great respect for Mr. Papuya, our faction has decided that without further consultations, without discussion and seeing how Parliament will work, we will not take part in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u66	Thank you. We're done talking about factions. And now, in accordance with the Rules, we have statements and discussions from the national MPs, and we have six minutes to do that. Please write down for the national MPs. While the recording is being conducted, please give the floor to the People's Deputy Vitek.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u67	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! It's about "gommet" Lacha who was just talking about "cart." I mean, two years ago, the ATO started, and Laszko came to me and peared on my battalion. I was assigned here by a military team, and he's the only one who can take away my mandate. No representatives of oligarchic classes who meet with amethos and other oligarchs who now represent their interests in Parliament have no right, morally, to take away my mandate! Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. You're welcome. Please, come on. People’s MP Rybchin gave the floor to the national deputy Lechchenk, who was nonfractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u69	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Now, look, while these breakups are in the hall right now, in fact, in the towers of the Supreme Council, there's an open crime going on in the Supreme Council. I'm not afraid of that word, it's a criminal offence, it's a total disregard for the legislative initiative of the national MP. And I'm addressing Mr. Andrey Parobia. Mr. Andrew, please, this is your presentation actually, yes. That's where your head starts. Now the bill registration sector is closed, they're not in place. They closed the door to the key and shared it somewhere. There is no telephone contact with him. Their boss shut the key, too, and they ran away. Why is this happening? And because I am now with the other Freedoms under the Supreme Council Rules, I have prepared a decree that would now forbid you to sign this criminal, anti-constitutional, anti-regulatory, anti-national thing that you and the Party of the Regions have just adopted. And you wouldn't be able to sign it if it were registered. So in order not to do that, just-just someone, well I understand it's not you, it's certainly Mr. Groissman, our head's coming out, or someone else, someone there's a higher power on the Bank, or Arsenius Petrovich, who here is still his shadow in the Supreme Council, further instructions to shut down and disappear from the employees of the Supreme Council and completely violate all the laws. This is actually a criminal responsibility, this is a direct obstacle to the activities of the National MP, 357 articles. You know, I don't understand how you can actually appreciate how you can do that. So, you know, Mr. Andrey, you're starting your business now, yes. If you want your work to be a little bit different from that of Groysman, so that not every other bill will be adopted in violation of the Rules, please give a public instruction now, you are now performing duties, I stress that you are acting as Head of the Supreme Council, give instructions to the bill registration sector to work, open up and perform your duties, accept documents from deputies. Because, you know, you're just turning the Supreme Council not into a circus, but it's just a bunch of road sweepers who wanted to spit on the Constitution, who wanted to spit on the laws, and what's interesting about the one thing in this life is their own pockets and pockets of their oligarchic masters. Surrender! If you don't act differently soon, the Ukrainian people will just take you all out of here, maybe even with me, but it won't matter anymore. Because you're going to bring the situation to such a boiling point that you're just not going to be on this planet. Or, of course, you may escape to Monaco. Of course, this option remains. Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u70	Thank you. Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Mikola Fedoruk, People's Front. Fedoruk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u72	Please, National Deputy Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u73	Friends, I want to start by saying that I'm one of those people whose side is so much disgraceful talk about some kind of sellout, some kind of betrayal, some kind of pocket. I ask you very much, let someone in this room say, when and to whom during this entire time I have been on the Supreme Council, I have taken at least one penny, even though there have been so many desirable truths and lies to impale them. But I know that freedom costs more than any money. Therefore, before making such accusations, take responsibility for what you have said. And if you don't have the facts that I sold to someone, ask my forgiveness. I went and supported the creation of a coalition just because, I think at this time, it's really necessary to pull and pull this train, and stand by and bark, you know, it's the easiest thing. And I thank all those who have not been afraid to share responsibility for the future of the state. Now it's about Andrew Paris. Not every decent man in this room has come to this Supreme Council on the blood of that Celestial 100, which we know of, and those about seven hundred dead, which are not yet officially known, and on the Romanians of those who are fortunate enough to survive in this massacre. And is there a person in this room who would at least take part in Midan’s victory, just as Andrew Parubius did? Is he not the only one who is not afraid to take full responsibility for this opposition to the Yanukovic regime, for the creation of hundreds of self-defence in Midan? Because it is well known that in the event of the defeat of any insurgency, the heads of the incarcerators and organizers are the first to fly. And there's a lot of people who like to join in later to then say in case of what: "Why? Everyone ran away, and I ran away." And he wasn't scared. He took it. Friends! Out of respect for all those who have died for the victory of Midan, out of respect for Andria, who has won this victory and all that we have been holding back the enemy for the past two years, we will show this respect to them in the way that all the decent people in this room, all of us, will give our vote for Andrija unanimously! And if you don't give up your vote for Andrew, it's "segret" and it's a shame! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u74	Thank you. And the last speech, the People's Deputy of Dmitri Dobrodomov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u75	Honourable Ukrainian compatriots, honourable presiding officers, deputies! I represent the National Control political party. First. Today's package, absurd from a constitutional point of view, has shown what a real coalition is in this room. It's sad and it's insulting. With such manipulations and manipulations, start a new government -- at least a stupid adjective. And that really bad can end. The other one. Under such circumstances, when the votes of the oligarchs and the former regions are used, the government will be appointed, ministers will continue to be appointed, and a program will be approved, which, by the way, no one in this room has seen the government program and will do so again blindly, but it is no longer surprising. I would urge all the democratic political forces: "Fatherhood," "self-help," "radical party," "People's Control" -- ready to join the opposition to popular trust, the democratic opposition to popular trust. Otherwise, we will not be able to resist. Two months. For two months, the culinary negotiations, the derelicts, even until now, were understaffed because there are not all candidates for ministers, but today they will still vote. And that's why, when they say it's a solution to the political crisis, the political crisis took place on February 16th, when some of the coalition deputies, along with the opposition bloc, the former regions, did not vote in favour of the resignation of the Yatsenuk government. Today’s vote continues to show that the watershed in this Parliament took place, took place on those who really want to work, really want to reform, and on those who want to continue the case of Yatsenuk and his company. Therefore, dear Ukrainians, please monitor how and who is voting, what decisions are being made, and what reforms are going on. It's still not for long, they don't trust each other so much that they're not prepared for today separately, according to the constitutional way even to change the Prime Minister, otherwise it's impossible to call it a disgrace. That's why our People's Control Party, its representatives in Parliament didn't vote for it, we voted again on February 16th, and we make our position clear over the past year and a half, we're still in favour of reform. I'm glad that most of the members of the Eurooptimists interfractional association didn't support this decision and it was done right, and it's clear. And that's why I'm calling all of us once again to unite democratically.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u76	Thank you. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u77	The “Democratic Ukrainian Opposition of People’s Confidence” Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u78	Thank you. We finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. And I'm putting to the vote a motion for election as Head of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in order to take part in the vote. Please return to the hall. People's deputies are coming into the hall, please. I am voting for the election of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba, while recalling him from his post as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:13]] For 284 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Welcome to Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia for his election as Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a great honor and responsibility for me. And I'll say, for all of us, it's a great honor and responsibility to live in such a period of time for our country, when everyone -- and the one on the front and the one in the hall -- should feel like soldiers of an army that defends the Ukrainian state. From Majdan to today I have done what I can to defend the Ukrainian state, to defeat the enemy. And I'm sure, here, in this room, we're going to do what we did, all of us. I will not make loud promises and speak out loud. By my work, I am convinced that I will demonstrate that we will be able to keep Parliament as one key decision-making centre in the state, and that together we will be able to win our victory – the victory of Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]] Colleagues, now I ask you very much to support me in another proposal. We have completed the question, and the Rules should do so, but I have a great request that we vote in favour of working without interruption from 12 to 12.30. To be correct, the Rules require us to vote on this. That's why I have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you. Everyone's in place. Colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote and I'm asking you to support the offer to work without interruption from 12 to 12.30. Colleagues, I ask you to support me and please vote. Colleagues, it's not hard, it's short. Please vote. Please. [[12:32:30]] For 242 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, I'd like us to move on to a more dynamic work of ours, but it's only under the condition that there's a common agreement of the hall. The next item in the agenda is the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 74, 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, yesterday a coalition of European Ukrainian MPs met in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, which proposed the nomination of Irina Volodymyrovna Heraszczenko as the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words before I give my word. We've known Irina Volodymyrna since the early 2000s, and we've been through Midan orange, and Maidan Divinity together. Irina Volodymyrna was a person who was both extremely efficient and a light person who united others around her, who demonstrated both the ability to unite and the amazing workmanship. During the final period, the issue of European integration was largely related to it. And most of all, the question of the liberation of our brothers who were in captivity to the invaders and who were under her personal care, the woman who set the example for many men of courage, dignity and heroism. And as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to support Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite her to my word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I'm rarely worried when I'm standing in this rostrum, but today is the day, because, really, I realize it's a high responsibility. The very responsibility is often lacking today in Ukrainian politics. And that's why I want to thank my brothers and my sisters from all the factions that together in this Parliament we've tried so much to make the language of hate less sound here and that there will be more language to find compromise. I think it's very important to the Ukrainian Parliament today. I want to thank the faction, which today is made up of 140 brothers, because 139 there may be more worthy than I am of taking up this high office. But thank you for delegating me to this position. And I want to promise all of you, dear colleagues, that the high office of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council will be used primarily to protect Ukraine. There is no morning if I did not wake up with my colleagues thinking that our colleague, Nadia Savchenko, would appear in this room. And we have to make every effort to ensure that it is free as soon as possible to represent our feminine strength and the women's brotherhood not only in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I want to contact the mothers of all the prisoners who are now in the prisons of the Russian Federation and in the occupied territories. There's no day if I didn't think about how to free Santa Gerasimenko, the last cyborg Taras Kolody, Sergei Glondar, Alexander Olijnik, who is very much cared for in Self-Help, I know, in the Radical Party, and they want him to be free. And I am convinced that any position we have to use today is only to protect Ukraine, just to make sure that Ukraine becomes stronger so that, if we are politicians, we become soldiers with you who will lay their shoulders on our army and our diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, is there support in the hall for us to go to the vote, colleagues? There's support in the hall. Colleagues, if there's no objection in the room, I'll put it to a vote. And I ask, Your Honor, that I put to the vote the question of election as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. I'm asking you to come into the hall, don't put the vote down yet. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to take your jobs. Dear colleagues, let's do this. So that there is no discussion, does he support the hall so that we can vote without discussion? Please, I'm putting to the vote who supports the proposal so that we can go to the vote, please vote. Please support, please vote, vote, colleagues. [[12:38:28]] For 263 So 263 deputies decided that we could talk, put the matter to a vote without discussion. So, dear colleagues, who have not yet reached the workplace, please come in. And I'm putting to the vote the election of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko. We're voting on our colleagues, please vote. [[12:39:06]] For 260 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Welcome to Irina Volodymyr. And please join us in the presidency, Irina Volodymyrna. Welcome to Irina Volodymyr. [[Applause]] The next issue is the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is considered by the Supreme Council in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and submitted by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in accordance with the proposals made by the coalition. In accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman submitted proposals to the Supreme Council regarding the appointment of candidates for other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted a nomination for the defence minister of Ukraine, Stepan Timfiyovich Poltorak, and Paul Anatoliyovich Klimkin, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The following rules of procedure are proposed. Presentation by the President of Ukraine of the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs, to give up to 10 minutes to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to represent candidates for the posts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to take 30 minutes to answer candidates to questions of MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u82	Dear national deputies, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection under this rule, I invite you to the floor of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u84	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, this is the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which sets out how the rulings, such as those adopted on personnel matters, come into effect from the moment they are adopted. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, today I have the honour to present to you the team of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I clearly understand that today is such a very responsible day, because there are, of course, many who would like to throw it all away. But I think we have a chance that allows us to cope with those challenges and crises that we have. Dear colleagues, today I will have the honour to present to you the team with which I will work, if there is your will and support, the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Our tasks remain complex and appropriate. But together, I want to emphasize, as the only team and team, we'll deal with them. We need to stop the crisis, we need to ensure that the course for European integration remains constant, we need to ensure that economic growth is restored, we need to accelerate the path to reform, we need to make a lot of joint, responsible decisions. I would like to stress that I will do everything in my capacity as Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that this government is results-oriented and that its activities are valued by real achievements. I'd like this to be the government that, with your support, receives a return of trust in society in general. And so, dear colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to my colleagues, whom I'm submitting with the coalition for office in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development – Stepan Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Ukraine, Vladimir Euseiovich Kistion. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and Euro-Atlantic Integration, Ivanna Klimpus-Cincadze. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister, Paul Rosenko. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister, Viacheslav Kirilenko. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Hennady Zubko. [[Applause]] The Minister of Finance of Ukraine is Alexander Danieluk. [[Applause]] The Minister of the Cabinet is Alexander Sijenko. [[Applause]] The Minister of Defense of Ukraine will be introduced, I understand, the President, but I am. I'm on it. The Minister of Defence is Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich. [[Applause]] Foreign Minister Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] Interior Minister Avakov Arsen. Arsen Avakov. [[Applause]] The Minister of Justice is Paul Petrenko. [[Applause]] The Minister of Social Policy is Andrew Reva. [[Applause]] The Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources is Ostap Semerak. [[Applause]] The Minister of Agrarian Politics is Taras Kutov. [[Applause]] The Minister of Information Policy is Yuri Stec. [[Applause]] The Minister of Education and Science is Lilia Grinevich. [[Applause]] The Minister of Youth and Sports is Igor Zhdanov. [[Applause]] The Minister of Culture is Eugene Nietschuk. [[Applause]] The Minister of Infrastructure is Vladimir Omelyan. [[Applause]] Minister for Temporaryly Inoculated Areas and Internally Moved Persons, Vadim Chernish. [[Applause]] Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Igor Nasalik. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this government needs your support not only today but also further cooperation. I believe that we must do our utmost to be united in order to make and approve and to make effective decisions and to ensure the development of our nation. I am convinced that the people in the government boat will be able to do so, able to respond responsibly to tasks. Many of these people have great experience working at different levels of power, and I think that this government has a chance to become a government of national trust, become a government of real professional people, and become a government that will be a key indicator of efficiency that will increase the quality of life of Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention and I will thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, take 30 minutes to answer the questions of MP factions and groups and national MPs, 6 minutes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to express your position. Are there any MPs who insist on this discussion? Dear colleagues, statements from the factions must have been made, and I'm asking you to record the candidate's answers to questions from MPs and groups. Please hold the recording, please. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, "Block of Petra Prashenka".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u86	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, "Block of Petra Dustenka", Cherkashina. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I do not really have a question for you, but a request. We've been given the draft Decree number 4424, but it was introduced by the national MP, Mr. Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich. Nevertheless, I wanted you to start your wonderful work in a constitutional way and recommend that you move this draft decree and make it as Prime Minister of Ukraine in accordance with article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There are also two ministers in the draft decrees, the subject of which is the President of Ukraine. But once again, they are part of the draft decree that they are not the right subject, so these two decrees are already registered, they are the minister of defense, and the minister of foreign affairs. That is why I propose to adhere to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u87	Can I answer that? Dear fellow national MPs! Your Honour, Mr. Head! In fact, the decision is made by the Ukrainian national deputy Groisman, who I am at the moment. And I also want to say that she, as Prime Minister, has just been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So there are no contradictions. Thank you, dear fellows, it's quite obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u88	Dekhtarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u89	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154th constituency. It's faster to wish than to ask Vladimir Groysman. Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like to welcome you to this post. And I draw your attention to the fact that the state-owned company Peacekeeper Ipodrom has already made four decisions to re-establish this enterprise for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. And unfortunately, the position of the previous government to refuse the labour force and the pensioners to receive state rations is creating social tension in the district. And this is a question that we would like to address positively for the benefit of the electorate and the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u90	Smoky Grigory Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u91	Well, first of all, I want to wish everyone success, too, because the success of the government is the success of the state and the people. I'm the majority of people who are sitting in this room and in Parliament. And in the Prime Minister's bed, I know it myself. I'd like to address the man I have so much respect. Lilia Mikhailovna, this is for you, Greenwich. This is especially our colleague, who was very concerned with education and rightly took up this position. But, Lilia Mikhailovna, I've just met with colleges, schools, and people are very dissatisfied with the fact that today is 12 years of schooling. It is said that if you enter a marriage agency, the army should have their own home and even the maternity home. Because at the age of 19, the girl graduated from school. That's not right. We look forward to seeing you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u92	Yegor Sobolev, Self-help faction. Please. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, before us is a new government, before you is a real European state opposition to the self-help MPs. We will support you in everything necessary for the country and people of Ukraine, but first of all we want to see your action plan, your program. Our agreement to support your decisions is, first of all, to define strategic directions in the economy, to restore the status of the Ministry of Economics as the main body that decides on the economic policy of the State, to implement liberal tax reform, to set up a customs order, to restore the investment climate, to lift all restrictions on monetary regulation, to take effective action on de-forestation of the economy, to carry out a genuine pension reform without.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u94	Thirty seconds, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u95	Real pension reform, without which we were unable to carry out tax reform last year, transparent energy supply, delligarchy and demonolysis of the gas market and energy market. [[Applause]] In all these decisions, we are ready to support you. But above all, please give us your program, which we have not yet seen. As an opposition, we will very constructively control you and offer you alternative offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, these are questions, answers, if government officials are willing to answer, please let me know. If it's just a speech and there's no need for an answer, I'll pass the word to the next speaker. So, Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u97	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, we very much hope that you will succeed. You know, for example, there's Paul Kishkar, and that's what we put on your success, and that he's even possible. And now we've stopped the scenario of the early elections, which, in my view, would definitely end with the cracking of the land corridor on Crimea, because the sanctions against Russia were lifted. But if you don't succeed, if you don't do the Coalition Agreement, as the previous government didn't do, if you don't stop the corruption at the customs, if you don't come out with a clear position: where the jobs that the National Bank should be, if this unison continues with the National Bank, and with Mrs. Gonnaarev, there will be no success, yes, the year will work, we will take this crisis away for a year. This year is a year of opportunity, so I believe very much in you, very pleased to see Mr. Omelan, Mr. Kutov, other new people in the government, I believe that you will be successful and we will always base our shoulders, but also, we will criticize and point to all the shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Mamchure Yuri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u99	Please pass the word to colleague Irina Frez.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an urgent request from the BP faction to you. In your budget review, you can raise the salaries of border guards to the level of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard, as well as teachers to the level of even a police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u101	Thank you. Moskalenko Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Oleg Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u103	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, I will now say not only from our faction, I think, from most of Parliament. First. Congratulations to you, Vladimir Borisovich, on your election as Prime Minister. And the others are a comment. Not only did the previous government lose contact with the people of Ukraine and with the realities but it also lost the support of Parliament, which was the result of the political crisis, and then, in the future, it led to resignation. You, like many members of today’s government, are a member of Parliament. We have repeatedly discussed with the previous government the problem that very many important bills did not find the necessary speed and support on the committees just because many ministers never came to these committees, did not work properly with the MPs and did not have the necessary consultations. That's why I'm asking you not to do this new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u104	Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u105	Please pass the word to the national deputy Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u106	Vladimir Borisovich, I want to tell you that the population of Ukraine is dying not only in war but also in our hospitals of state and municipal property. Because in 24 years of our state’s independence, we have reformed health care. During a year and a half of Parliament's work, unfortunately, you didn't put the medical bill to the vote. Now, the ministers that you are proposing are not one minister of great importance, the Minister of Health. Please tell Ukrainian citizens not to be treated now, will Ukrainian citizens now have to travel abroad for treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u107	Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u108	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Mr. Volodymyr Groissman has violated the Ukrainian Supreme Council Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council", the Constitution of Ukraine, and more than half of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council have been adopted with a violation of the Rules, an evil violation. Well, it was done so that the people wouldn't know what was going on. And now this Kabmin is appointed under the leadership of Mr. Groysman with the same violations of the Constitution. The decision is made, first, not by the President's authority, but by the authority of the people's deputies. Following the adoption of this illegal decree with other items that could not be there, Groisman, as a national deputy, has been given authority as a national deputy and has been ordered to submit to the Cabinet of Ministers. We don't see any real decision signed that Groisman is now prime minister at all. Where is the evidence at all that he is now officially Prime Minister? So what's happening now is the continuation of the destruction of all the legal foundations of the state. You're "loving friends" (in paws) and you're pretending that the people will get you out of here, but not like Yanukovitch, who has fled to Rostov, but will take you out on the highway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u109	Stashuk Vitaly, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u110	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u111	Good afternoon. Igor Gus, Volin, 19th constituency. I have a request and an invitation, I hope, to the next Minister of Fuel, to Mr. Nasalik's energy to visit Volin, Novovolinsk, to meet with mining teams and work together to work out a new philosophy on the problem of miners. Unfortunately, your predecessor has failed to do so objectively, but I hope and hope for you as a person who has experience working on a fuel and energy committee and who is ready for dialogue and compromise. And we're ready to help you as a future ministry. So I pass this request on to myself and to the neo-voluntary miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u112	Sparky Mikola Leonidovich, Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I have three questions, and I would like to get an answer. The first question is more rhetorical. Do you think that your work as Prime Minister and as a whole of the Cabinet of Ministers can be successful if your appointment is in an entirely unconstitutional and illegal manner? The second question. What is your attitude toward the need to raise social standards for our population, and when will this happen? And the third question. What concrete steps will your government take to support the sectors of our national economy, such as agriculture and industry? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u114	You're welcome. Is There Someone Who Needs an Answer? Igor Mosiyczuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u115	Igor Mosiyczuk, "Radical Party." Well, the looting dances continue in violation of the Rules and all the laws: the National Deputy makes up the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that the court will have to deal with this. And I have a specific question for Mr. Petrenko's Minister of Justice. As we know, the Supreme Court of Ukraine resumed its position as Penitentiary Officer of Mr. Staryenko’s Penitentiary Service. Please tell me, will you follow the court’s decision when and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. There are currently no such decisions in the Ministry of Justice, and once it is available to the Ministry of Justice, we will make an appropriate procedural decision within the framework of the law on the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u117	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. He's handing it over to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u118	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, Janukovic's sitting in Rostov thinking, "I didn't know I could do that." Now we are looking at a new government that does not have a health minister in this particular area as one of the most catastrophic situations. We brought in, and so it was corrupt and heavy, we brought in Flowersville, it was all piled up. Today, we see that millions of people throughout the country do not know how to buy drugs. That is why the Radical Party faction initiates a set of free drugs for the elderly. But I have a question at the same time to the candidate in the queue, which is the second time we should have the Ministry of Information Policy, which is supposed to be headed by the godfather of President Yuri Stetz. Yuri Jaroslavovich, what did you do for a year, where was the information policy, where was the opposition to the information war in Russia? This is recognized by all our diplomats in private conversations that when Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u119	There was Vasile, the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u120	I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy, Anton Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, I want to be heard, because we are being watched by all 46,000 voters who sent a year ago to your office of Ministers and the President for the repair of the Odessa-Reni road, 298 kilometers. It's practically only one kilometer at a time. You know, with your support, a special law was passed that allowed us to focus some money on the major repairs of this highway. But unfortunately, we got zero. I very much ask that the first visit be made to the Odessa region, and we, together with Minister Omellan, see how the work of repairing the Odessa-Reni road is done. I hope so, and I believe so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u122	Dmitri Andriyewsky, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u123	My fellow Members, I am confident that the Ukrainian Parliament's deputies will support the voting of the Ukrainian government, and its actions will be worth responding to the challenges facing Ukraine today. And if you'll excuse me, please pass it on to my colleague, Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u124	Dear representatives of the new government, I ask you to limit systemic corruption by allowing for the replacement of officials. One second. All levels of district. Create a list of state-owned strategic enterprises that cannot be privatized, reform the financial and banking systems immediately, and tax for the development of small and medium-sized businesses. To return, at last, to health and education workers who are the elite of our nation. And the main thing. The earth must never be a commodity. The people are controlling you, hoping that God will help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Logan George, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to point out that today, when we try to choose a government, to elect a prime minister of Ukraine, we need to know what is happening in the state. Yesterday, as everyone knows, the so-called prosecutor of the Crimea, Mrs. Pavloska, forbade Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. It did not ban Majlis, it banned the entire people of Ukraine yesterday, because Majlis is the root body that unites our citizens. So I'm going to the government, and I'm going to the parliamentarians who are currently supporting our government. Our citizens who are fighting for us are taking all measures at international and national level. To this end, personally, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Internal Affairs, I request that we give every opportunity to bring to justice criminals who threaten our citizens. Our citizens need both legal and practical protection. Glory to Ukraine! Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u127	Sverk Gregory, Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u128	Thank you. I want to wish for the strength of the new government and give my word to my colleague Oleg Neda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u129	We, all residents of Donbas and all Ukraine, look to you with hope, Volodymyr Borisovich. And we know that you've been giving Donbas a lot of time in your time. Volodymyr Borisovich, we also support the creation of the Ministry of Displacement and Occupied Territories. I have a question, Vladimir Borisovich, a question and a request. Please support the decision to compensate the residents of Donbas for the property they lost as a result of the conduct of the ATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u130	Burbak Maxim, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u131	I have a wish for the entire composition of this government that they will eventually continue those reforms that were initiated by the previous government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. In order for us to implement both the EU Association Agreement and the reform of the gas market, increased energy efficiency and the opening of registers. So all those reforms and the foundations of a new independent Ukraine that were established by the previous government were finally introduced by your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u132	Thank you. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u133	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would still ask that there be any reaction from the candidates to the government, because that's the question, and that sounds just like MPs, and there's no question about MPs, and there's no answer. I'd like to ask you a very specific question. Please explain why the government needs six Vice Prime Ministers. Why is it such a big figure? This involves what that was simply not enough ministries for all who needed to be put in and given a position? Then let's actually, I don't know, the ministers without the portfolios enter, let's attach the prime minister to each minister, then we'll all have enough jobs, just, I think, no jobs. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u134	The answer is simple: The work will be done. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, time taken. There is, yes, yes. Please, Silantiev, the Radical Party. Yeah, there's two minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u136	I would like to address Igor Alekseevich, Minister of Youth and Sport. I hope that in this new government, the policy of the Ministry will be to preserve the sports infrastructure that we still have, and that is today the weight of gold, the sports schools that are falling today, and the youth who today have no opportunity to engage in the sport that remains in the streets of drug abuse, alcohol, smoking, crime. As head of the subcommittee, I am prepared to extend the arm of friendship and cooperation to all of us at the legal level, we are ready to assist and support the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u137	Thank you for asking, dear colleague. The hand of friendship is accepted. You know, I'm working with the Supreme Council profile committee all the time, and I think together we're going to do everything we can to preserve the sport system in Ukraine so that our kids aren't out on the street, and the athletes have the right conditions to prepare for the international competitions, including the Olympic and Paralympic games that will take place this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over and we are moving on to making a decision. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to prepare for the vote, to enter the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote and faction members, please, to carry out the mobilization work among the special forces. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, pursuant to articles 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the proposal to appoint the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposed by the President of Ukraine, and the list proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, draft Decree No. 4424. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:18:57]] For 239. Decision taken. [[Applause]] We welcome the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, members of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The oath is read by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and the text is signed by each member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, gives the floor to read the text of the oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u139	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I, Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u140	Welcome to the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, since we have appointed members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we need to consider the Order on the Liberation of Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the previous government. This is a draft decree made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Volodymyr Groissman, and there is a request that we support the draft Decision on the Liberation of Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of the previous government. Who supports the proposal. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, there's a vote, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, everybody took their seats? So, whoever supports the proposal for discharge from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, members of the previous government, please vote, please support. Please stop voting. The prince, head of the committee, demands a word. Please, Knyazevich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, since there is a misunderstanding among many deputies, for some reason they do not think we should proceed with this procedure, I will simply read out the direct rule of article 17 of Part Four of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which states that all members of the Cabinet of Ministers who are retired, and they are now duly retired, are relieved of their jobs from the beginning of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is a direct requirement of law. And it is imperative that we vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, these were long legal discussions to be legally precise so that we would not make any mistake in the Rules, we would vote on that decision. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And who supports the decision to release the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the previous government, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:23:29]] For 281 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, I am now in charge. Can I just take a break? No breaks, right? Okay. The government had previously requested a break of 10 minutes, and now they say they can work without interruption. Vladimir Borisovich, then we move on to the next question. This is a review of the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this will be the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich, this will be the next question. May I have your attention, please? According to article 85, paragraph 11, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consider and decide on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers’ programme of activities. Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Rules of Procedure for this matter provide for a report by the Prime Minister, a question to the Prime Minister, a discussion and a closing statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I invite you to the floor, to the report of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u143	Thank you, fellow national MPs. I understand that there are different moods in the Supreme Council Hall. I want to tell you that I personally consulted with all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we discussed many issues of order, including participation in the coalition. I think you can say a lot of different things today, but the answer is how good this government is going to work. So you don't have to raise the degree, you have to raise the degree where you need specific decisions, where you need to do specific things. I think it's very important. I have heard many questions from a draft discussion by Ukrainian national deputies. Obviously on many issues you're absolutely right, and we need to build a completely new quality of our interaction. We have many health issues, and I understand. And I think that we will be able, together with Parliament, to make one conceptual reform that will truly suit the interests of the Ukrainian people. All other questions need processing. And I don't think there'll be any questions. If anyone is talking about the fact that voting in the Ukrainian Parliament is unknown, then, you know, I understand that there is such a Soviet habit: there would be a human being, and you can always present any claims to it. So I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today has shown its courage, stability, patriotism in that we have a chance to settle and move on. Once, when I was just starting to work as a Vinick City head, and I was 28 years old at the time, an experienced manager gave me good advice. He said that if you want to be a successful leader, with one eye you should look up and hear, and see what concerns people today and others to look to the future, always understand the end of the goal that you are going to. All of us report on the difficult times Ukraine is experiencing today and how difficult people are living today. From the government that has been formed today, people are primarily waiting for responsible policies, active actions that will allow Ukraine to be brought out of the crisis. But those steps that we must take without delay should not simply solve today's problems, they should lay the foundations for the future development of our state, and this is possible only through the deep reform that practically all spheres of our state need. Bringing the country out of the crisis and ensuring an effective continuation of reforms is and are the two key tasks facing the new government. Our goal is to make Ukraine irreversibly transformed into a modern European state, to lay the groundwork for sustained economic development. A few words about the program. In its activities, the new government will be guided by the basic strategic documents that determine the basic orientations of European development. First. This is Ukraine’s 2020 strategy, a coalition agreement that was drafted and signed in 2014, and many national deputies took part in its development. The Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, the strategic documents signed with our international partners, the legislative reform plan approved in this Hall last year. All these are quality documents that determine what we need to do on the path of European transformation. And today it's not about creating new beautiful documents, it's about executing those programs that are already being worked out. Therefore, our program is based on the Coalition Agreement and contains its core tasks, while we are committing ourselves, and this is fundamentally important, within one month on the basis of a detailed analysis of the situation, to work out and present a clear plan, together with the national deputies of Ukraine, an operational anti-crisis plan that will clearly determine what will be done to us by the end of the year and what specific indicators of its implementation will be. By the end of the year, we have made a commitment and, most importantly, prepare a midterm development plan for Ukraine. About priorities. Effective management and restoration of trust in authority. Today I would like to talk about some of our priorities. One of the key tasks facing us today is to restore trust in authority. I believe that one of the key prerequisites for such restoration is effective government. This is primarily the ability to solve people’s problems, and today we have to prove this ability fully. In recent weeks, I have held numerous meetings with representatives of civil society, experts in various fields. I'm going to talk about three basic conclusions that I made after this conversation. First. People often just don't hear, people often don't hear officials, they often don't have real situations, they close their eyes to real problems that concern people. The other one. In many areas, a clear vision of what is to be done is not yet proposed. People simply do not understand what will happen to a particular sphere, and the decisions that are sometimes proposed are not systemic and are torn away from life. Third. I've heard a lot of concrete suggestions and ideas about what we can and need to do immediately, intelligent and right ideas in our country enough. I have heard that the steps that people have been waiting for for many years are again delayed indefinitely. What confidence can we talk about if our officials continue to follow the rules: I don't hear people, I don't see the future, I don't do anything? At the first meeting of the government, ministers will be tasked with updating and presenting to the public, within a month, a clear vision of relevant sectoral reforms and a plan of priorities by the end of the year. At the same time, it is vital not to lose what was the acquisition of the government that was today, which powers were suspended today. At the same time, we need to raise the quality of operating and decision-making in the entire system of executives. I've always thought that reform needs to start with itself. We no longer have the right to act on the principle: when the right hand does not know what the left is doing; when decisions are made for months from the Ministry to the Ministry, and sometimes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine; when tasks that no one does and no one is responsible for. I can promise Ukraine's society and future co-ministers that I will be able to provide hard management with clear control over the tasks and responsibilities of those who do not. But I'm a proponent of systemic decisions. We need to rebuild the public service system on the basis of a new law adopted in this Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall, change the work system of the Cabinet of Ministers and of all COVs, activate the introduction of electronic technology, electronic governance. I would like to pay particular attention to the change in government and parliament's interaction system. There is a problem that we have to solve and resolve together -- a breach of interaction and communication between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To rebuild this system is our joint task, which is specifically foreseen by the Roadmap for Reform, which we have worked with you, which has been worked and supported within the framework of the joint mission of the European Parliament and the Ukrainian Parliament, led by Mr. Pet Cox. I can promise you that, at all stages, from drafting drafts to their adoption and further implementation, the government will be constantly in dialogue with the Ukrainian National Deputies. I believe that improving the quality of governance is the guarantee of solving all problems and restoring society's trust in power. Macrofinancial stability. I would like to stress that maintaining macro-financial stability and effective cooperation with our international partners is a critical condition for our further development. On the one hand, we must regain the trust of our international partners in Ukraine, which we can do only, clearly and at the right time, by fulfilling the commitments we have made. On the other hand, we need to increase efficiency and subjectivity in our interaction with our international partners. Our previous experience, particularly when we adopt this year's budget, shows that there are different ways to achieve goals within the framework of the basic parameters that we define together with our international partners. And our paths should be the most effective. And we need to work together in the negotiations to determine what concrete steps should be taken in our situation, taking into account both international experience and our active one. And our current situation. We will actively consult with the profile committees, and I ask you to take this into account, and with the coalition at the negotiating stage. But the agreements reached must be clearly implemented, and this must be our shared responsibility. Here I count on the support of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. I want to stress, I'm a realist and I think that populism is no less an enemy to Ukraine than external aggression. We cannot promise people what is impossible in today’s conditions. Sometimes the realities of our politics tell us that all political parties promise everything and then do nothing. We have to change this tradition of Ukrainian culture. political culture. Or doing something that will exacerbate the crisis is impossible. And if we make unpopular decisions, we have to go to people and explain why we need to make this decision. We have to come from the fact that the help of our international partners, which we are grateful for, is a temporary tool, it's like a sand watch: we've got help, we've turned this clock, and we have time to stabilize the situation in the country, but also to restore the national economy. Without restoring economic growth, we will never get back on our own. So economic reform is one of the key priorities for us when people have normal jobs with normal wages, many problems will be removed immediately. Economic growth, in turn, is impossible without creating a normal, business-friendly climate. We must immediately return to tax reform. Along with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose to create an immediate job involving international experts, which will return to the two working versions of the new Tax Code. We need to take what's best in each of them, we need to assess the real consequences of making changes in both the short-term and the long-term. As a result, we have to go to a consolidated solution, which will ensure that economic growth is achieved as soon as possible. For both the state and business to have enough time to prepare for its implementation, not the last night. And put a moratorium on any changes to tax legislation for 3-5 years. We have to ensure the predictability of our nation. At the same time, we need to change the system of tax and customs work to which we have, or at most, a complaint from entrepreneurs. And here I want to say that we have to stop the disgraceful practice of "cheese," "black," whatever smuggling. We have to do everything we can to make our customs extremely transparent to Ukrainian society and extremely private to any smuggler. We have to significantly increase payments and increase control over the customs authorities of Ukraine, and we have to do this with you. At the same time, we have to change the system of work and tax authorities, and there are steps that can be implemented very quickly -- to implement an automated risk assessment system. Such systems operate in all European countries, but we still do not have them in place. Establish standard procedures to maximize the subjective factor, which is often a huge abuse, and therefore remove all "dirty hands" from the Ukrainian budget. There are steps that will take more time to change the ideology of the work of these organs so that the efficiency indicator is not the amount of collected taxes and fines collected, but the amount of taxes paid. The tax reform is that for all entrepreneurs today, from big to small, it will signal that the country is actually starting to change. Another important task is deregulation. This is the area where the last year - two has made significant progress. But I think every business representative will say that's not enough right now. Frankly, in the so - called deregulation guillotine of the knife, as it got there, it got stuck. I promise you, this knife for existing bureaucracy, we're finally going to let go. Among the priorities and steps should also be the implementation of those steps that should significantly increase our rating in the ease of doing business. We have little time here, and we have a whole series of decisions to make in the coming months. By creating liberal rules of the game for business, we must at the same time make effective use of the incentive to develop our own economy, we have to find our place in the global economy and ensure that we move from a raw-minded economy to an economy that is focused on creating a high added value, and all the chances we have for that are with you. I have met agrarians several times over the past few weeks, and the VAT relief system has played a major role in the development of this sector. But at the same time, everyone knows this, including the source of corruption. Is this the only way to stimulate the development of the sector? No, not the only one. And we, along with the agrarians, have found options that are already working on specific solutions, and I think we can work together to adopt them. The priority is to support small farms and small and medium-sized businesses. I'd like to emphasize once again one of the key tasks in the field of economics is overcoming unemployment and creating new jobs. It's in the small and medium-sized business sector, in the areas that are focused on creating high value added, that's the greatest potential for growth. The percentage of contributions that this sector makes to GDP, we have, and in European countries, is simply uncomparable. Another reserve for economic growth. I see an effective use of public investment. I've already said more than once that the previous plan, a preliminary analysis of the current budget showed that the funds are invested by the state in objects with a readiness rate of 6-7 percent per year to bring them to a level of 10. Simply put, money is simply buried in boilers and transformed into permanent and eternal buildings. If we focus on infrastructure projects with you, for example, on repairs and construction of Ukrainian roads, we'll get a few results right away, we'll do a really useful job for the country, we'll show people tangible results, and we'll give people real jobs and real earnings. Because one job in construction, as you know, creates adjacent sectors to seven jobs. There are other infrastructure projects that can be launched: energy efficiency, local infrastructure and so on. In fact, it is necessary to start a major repair of the country. In addition, we already have allocated resources from international financial institutions that are not being used effectively today, as well as significant funds in local budgets as a result of the financial decentralization that we have started, and this is where there are large reserves when local budgets and government budgets become real partners in the implementation of the national development strategy. There are a few important points to this. First, strict control not to steal, if desired, it can be done. The second quality control, and here I think international partners will help us. And the third, strategic vision of what we do and what transportation borders we build, that we don't build roads that lead to nowhere. The issue of improving the efficiency of state-owned management and privatization in an open-ended transparent competition should also not be overlooked. I welcome the start of the process of assigning top managers to state companies through open competitions. This practice needs to be continued, and we need to move away from the system of political assignments that are sometimes either common or source of corruption. It's about privatization. This is a topic that generates lively debates in society, some categorically speaking for, some categorically speaking for. What are those who are "against" afraid of? We'll sell the last for nothing, we'll buy the oligarches again, and we'll spend the money. I think it's a risk that needs to be taken into account and minimized, but we can't do that. Not only is it that you need the money to fill the budget, but it's very important. Inefficient government ownership is one of the biggest corruption holes through which all new and new funds are being washed away, which is what everyone who has successfully passed the path of reform is talking about. But what does it matter? First, we need to carry out privatization in a balanced and step - by - step manner, identifying each object. The second is to conduct it in a literate manner, preparing facilities for privatization to be sold on favourable terms. And the third, and the main thing is, it has to be transparent. We have a lot to talk about delligarchy. And much has been done in the walls of this Parliament in conjunction with the previous government. What's an oligarchic economy? It's when for some, rules and opportunities and for others, for others. I want to make it clear today that the rules in Ukraine should be one thing, and we need to make money not at the expense of money, but only on the basis of literacy, not on the basis of schemes, preferences and lobbying. This is the approach that I have practiced and will practice. I want to focus on preventing and combating corruption as another of our key priorities. The corrupt system of government is like a grid: no matter how much we fill the government's execution, it's all coming out of it. from execution. The new government will exercise intolerance to all forms of corruption. There are two strategic tasks. The first is to create conditions to minimize the risks of corruption and, in particular, to implement those steps that I've talked about before. And secondly, without which the fight against corruption will never be effective – the irreparability of punishment for corruption. Within our powers, we support the launching of new bodies to prevent and combat corruption and the reform of the judicial system. At the same time, we're going to practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u144	Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u145	At the same time, we will adhere to the principles of maximum openness in the work of executive power. My previous experience shows that the introduction of electronic technologies is one of the effective ways to raise openness and power and prevent corruption. The team that launched the transparent system will continue to work in the new government and will have my full support. I welcome the steps that have been taken to ensure the transparency of public procurement and are now being done to ensure the transparency of auctions. It's a colossal cost that will be saved for the state budget. I am grateful to the fellow MPs who supported the relevant bills that made it possible to introduce such an approach. I also want to rely again on my previous experience to propose the introduction of anti-corruption systems and audits in the system of central executives. The principles of an effective and responsible state are to give work to those who can take care of themselves and take care of those who, through age, health, other circumstances need social support. We have to be realistic, we can't spend more than we make, every Ukrainian family in their example understands this very well. The same rule applies to the state budget. But those social funds should be spent effectively, and then we can really help those who need help, not smear resources on the principle of everything, but on the crumb. As a first step for the current year, I see: an analysis of the effectiveness and management of the system of subsidies and tariff policies. The subsidy system played an important role as a fuse during the first phase of the transition to economically sound tariffs. And the social services system as a whole has met with this challenge, for which all the employees of these services need to say "thank you." We should all be aware that because of the reduced tariffs, the State actually dated all the poor and the rich, because the same subsidy was hidden in the difference in tariffs. In addition, the Naftogazu dating system created a field for corruption. The system has been changed and we will be responsible for bringing this reform to an end. But there's still an unresolved set of issues that are causing considerable social resonance, such as transparency of tariffs and energy saving. One of my first assignments will be the urgent processing of these issues, which are part of the transition to economically sound tariffs. Audit of the effectiveness and reform of social funds. Social funds go through a tremendous amount of resources, so they have to be an object of close attention, ensure maximum transparency of their work, perhaps reducing the cost of their administration can provide a substantial economy, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, improve the provision of social services. Changing the state aid system for unemployment is a clear priority which, unfortunately, has not yet been given enough attention. Real unemployment statistics in the country are very, very disconcerting, and predictions are even more disappointing. First of all, it's the result of the economic downturn that we're experiencing, but not only, it's the result of inefficient public policies in the field of employment. For no one is the secret that employment services often perform only formal functions and provide services that do not, unfortunately, have too much effect. Maybe it's too harsh to judge, but people go to the Employment Service just to check out, not to get a real job in employment. What incentives does the State provide for employers for employment, particularly in the first place? Is there real monitoring and forecasting of the labour market in the country? Does our education system, in particular professional and technical, provide people with qualifications that meet the requirements of employers? Is there a system of guidance in the country at all? These questions can be continued, and we need to find the answers. There is the experience of other countries to deal with these issues, which can and should be implemented. The first thing to do is to realize that the state can and should really fight unemployment is to actively, I would say, even aggressively, to work for the welfare of its citizens. I would like to emphasize that in my mind, a responsible state is a State that executes a social contract. So reforming social policy will certainly be one of our key priorities. Another challenge we have to answer is how people live in our country. And this is extremely important. People’s living conditions are just as depressing as they are, no name. And it's hard to be optimistic when you're living in depressed conditions, and people feel like they don't care about their everyday problems. I think that we can change conditions for people only by working together with local governments and the state. With the idea of decentralization, I came into central power two years ago, and I've been consistently implementing it all this time. And we've already made our first move. Thanks to the financial decentralization and the start-up of the process of community reunification, voluntary, I emphasize, there are signs of recovery in the communities themselves: roads and sidewalks are being repaired somewhere, gardens and schools, clinics and hospitals. It's still a sign, because in a year or two, all the holes that have been piled up over the years, you can't. One of the key tasks for this year is to finally develop a clear model of level-by-level distribution: local, sub-regional and regional, the principle of subsidiarity, and to secure, by authority, necessarily financial sources. We started this work with our Polish colleagues back in 2014. I've always advocated that any sectoral reform is doomed if we don't include the energy of local communities. We're now including this energy, but the state has to do its part. First of all, I am talking about two critical reforms in Ukraine today: education and health care. No further delay in this question is allowed. Finally, we need to adopt a basic strategy for the reform of the health system in Ukraine. The fact that we find it so difficult to select the director of MOH only tells us how many problems have accumulated in this field and how difficult it is to find a person who has the courage to make the necessary changes. I personally am a supporter. The model of medicine, but I'm ready to discuss it. In principle, we should consider the following. The new system, financing is to be introduced in a phased manner, taking into account the current state of medical institutions and the current standard of living of people, so as not to cause failure, such risks are unacceptable. I want to address a very sensitive question for our citizens: the price of medicine. I hear a lot of criticism on this issue, but finally we have to put a dot on this issue, we have to provide fair prices for medicines for Ukrainian citizens. I think our joint task of doing this is going to be given our attention. With the joint efforts of the Ministry of Education and the local self-government, we also have to launch a qualitative reform of education, and I am pleased that Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, the head of the relevant committee of profile, which we know well, has accepted the proposal to lead the Ministry of Education, and now there is a realisation on her shoulders of the work that has already been done in the Ukrainian Parliament. But I want to say that not only on your shoulders, but my shoulders will also be with you. I just want to point out that our children have no second chance of living their childhood and getting an education. And whatever difficult times we face, we must do our utmost to ensure that these years for our children are not lost, to do everything possible to grow a healthy and well - prepared new generation. There are many challenges that we should touch today, but I don't want to say too much, so I'm talking about priority and urgent things. Among such priorities are the protection of the sovereignty of our state and the preservation of the country's unity. I would like to point out that increasing our defenses in terms of Russian aggression and for the new government remains a serious first priority. We have a clear orientation: modernizing our system of defence according to NATO standards. I would like to point out that in the new composition of the government there will be a special vice-premier who will be dealing with European and Euro-Atlantic integration, this is our colleague Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze. We must also continue to give maximum attention to the social protection of those who have protected and protected our independence and their families. Another issue that will be given additional attention in the new government is a set of issues related to the return of Crimea and the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas, the restoration of activity in the freed areas, and the integration of displaced persons. I want to make my position clear. We never acknowledge that part of our land, which was cut off alive, is no longer part of Ukraine. It is a wound that will heal only when the full territorial integrity of our nation is restored. And testifying that this issue will become one of the priorities of the new government's tasks is our decision to create a separate special ministry. And it's in the frame. At the same level, there will also be the leadership of this issue at the level of one of the vice-premiers. It's within this priority that I want to talk about the unity of the country, another important area, that's culture. The enemy tries to exhaust us in various ways, to humiliate us so that we lose our faith in our own strength. The reaction of Ukrainian society to external threats was the words "Ukraine is the only one." This is the value that we today need to lay the foundation for our restoration, no matter what the enemy may do. If we do not have a hard time, we should not lose faith in our strength. Culture itself is the basic thing that lies at the heart of our belief in our own strength and our sense of unity. I said yesterday at a coalition meeting, today I confirm that I am personally and especially in charge of Ukrainian culture. I also believe that the Ministry of Culture's priorities should be to prepare a programme to revitalize production, spread, preserve, disseminate and maintain national cultural products and increase demand for them. Also, the program of rebirth of the Ukrainian language. And at the end of this, dear colleagues, I apologize to you for taking the time. But I've tried to tell you as widely as possible about what we're going to do with you. And thank you all for listening. Thank you all. In summary, I would like to stress once again. The people of Ukraine have chosen their own course. And that's the way to set it up. the creation of Ukraine as a modern, powerful, European state. This path lies because of reforms. And I reaffirm my commitment to continuing the reform course. The main task for this year. To prove to everyone that the crisis that we are experiencing right now is a crisis of our growth, we have to overcome it, remove it from the order of the day those issues that are most sensitive to society today, and bring back to the citizens of our nation optimism, belief in today and the future of the great Ukrainian state. And we'll do it with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, there is the Rules and there will be discussions. The discussion will take place from. by the factions. But I wanted to consult with you, colleagues. This is the second hour, and I would like us to make a decision that we are working towards the conclusion of this issue, as well as the suspension of the powers of some Ukrainian national deputies for the term. This is very important for society to do today. This may take some time to conclude today’s meeting. Two factions approached me for political advice. Can we vote it out, colleagues? Is there any support for this? Then I ask my colleagues, since the second hour, to go into the hall to prepare for the vote. I ask you to support the proposal to work towards the conclusion of the government programme, as well as the timely termination of the powers of some Ukrainian national deputies, and, in fact, to consider this package to close today in plenary mode. If there is support for such a proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:58:31]] For 239. Thank you for making that decision. And we're moving on to the discussion. Now I'm asking for attention, we're recording statements from factions and groups. Please sign up for the discussion. People's deputies, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u147	Please pass on the word Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u148	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, this is a question for you. You distributed the Government Action Programme, where the section "Agriculture Reform" does not contain the land market. I would like to point out that you are not subject to the laws passed by the agrarian committee. Yesterday, the agrarian committee passed Law 2028, which provides for the corporateization of farms, that is, natural persons refuse ownership for the benefit of a limited - liability society. In this way they will accumulate large arrays of earth. You've faithfully written what was in the "Paternity" program when we're developing the lease market and allowing lease rights to be mortgaged so that farmers can have the circulation costs. I'm asking you to confirm that you're against the market and you're going to do that Action Program you gave away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u149	Thank you. Lapin Igor Alexanderovich, People's Front, conveys the word to Michael Bondar, "The People's Front." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u150	Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, Mr. Igor Stepanovich, the new Minister of Energy, I would like to take this opportunity to address you specifically on the issue of miners. And to address this issue as the shortest time to meet with the miners, the tradesmen, the prime minister and the new energy minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u151	Thank you. National Deputy Olesia Longey, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! The will of the people faction will support that package and reform programme that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has just sounded. At the same time, we would ask that those words not be mere words. We would like to see the protection of a domestic producer, Prime Minister and a respected government, at the heart of your work. So that we don't just think about how to spend our loans, not just how to settle our relationship with Europe, and how to vote on what they want, but how to think about what our producers want, what our farm representative, who wants our producers. 30 percent of the average unemployment rate today is in the districts in Central Ukraine. For us, which is not the only indicator of your activity, it's going to be a reduction. We are ready, and we have supported all the unpopular reforms, but only when these unpopular reforms are followed by further steps that will increase the competitiveness of our country and our domestic producer. When the number of jobs goes up, when wages go up, and when people are able to index all the tariffs they've raised, and I see it that way, you're going to raise. We wish you success! We're laying our shoulders on you! At the same time, please move from words to deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u153	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. We'll pass on the word to Mrs. Babak. Mrs. Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the program was just given to us, but we had literally 20 minutes to get to know it. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, there are questions and observations for each chapter in this program. But what I'm trying to say is a chapter that you so eloquently call, "Ensure accelerated economic development." It's literally in the second paragraph here that you're planning to put in place an automated system of risk management and customs valuation of goods in the DFS. I want to let you know that the system has been implemented and operates in the State Fiscal Service since the beginning of 2000 and has been fully operational since 2006. Do you want to know what you need to do to make the customs order? Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I ask you to listen to me now, because you have spoken very much on duty. So let me tell you what to do. First, they have to be provided with technical controls, scanners and suspension devices, all the checkpoints, all the customs checkpoints. It's different. You have to write down protocols and clear rules for customs officials to determine the customs value. Third. You have to take responsibility and punish both unscrupulous tax collectors and miniaturists while avoiding payment of customs fees. Fourth. You have to monitor the most problematic customs in conjunction with foreign companies, that's what you haven't been able to do, but you've just declared it. What about the Tax Code? You say here that you plan to adopt the new Tax Code, we welcome that and we want to remind you that the Tax Code should be submitted to Parliament to ensure the principles provided for in the Tax Code, and to adopt it by 1 July, so you have very little time. So we suggest you take the basis of a tax liberalisation bill by 150 national deputies, number 3357. And based on it, we now create a working group, together with the Ministry of Finance, to work on it, to agree with entrepreneurs, and to adopt it by July 1st. Third. You're talking about simplifying and moving to international accounting standards, this is already, enterprises are already using international accounting standards. Fourth. You don't know anything about the Tax Police, but at the same time there's an MP's bill to create a financial investigation service, and that's going to do a lot of good in restoring the trust of entrepreneurs in power. And, fifthly, automatic and transparent VAT compensation. Volodymyr Borisovich, I hope this is where you were referring to the introduction of a single VAT return register, with the only criterion for compensation, is the chronology of the submission of applications. And once again, you have the Law of Deputies, 3810. So please, all the bills that I said, let's work with you, we're here to extend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u155	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u156	We're stretching out our support arm. I hope you'll work with us more carefully than you've just listened to me. And the other questions we're going to ask you tomorrow are "the hour of questions to the government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u157	Thank you. The representative of "Block of Peter Dustenka" Alexius Mushak is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u158	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mrs. New Ministers! Actually, it's a little unorthodox for you to say that, but it's all happening for the first time. Of course, your program doesn't hold, it doesn't have numbers, it's more conceptual and philosophical. And we very much hope that during the month you will make, indeed, a qualitative and operational plan. I'd like to include three of the following things. The first relates to privatization. Privatization should not just be fair and transparent, it should also be accelerated. And how much, at the moment, is it not a business issue or a money issue, it's a question of corruption and a constant political crisis. I want to remind you that in the post-mystery reality, virtually all the political crises, they were linked in one way or another to the struggle for a government asset. The first crisis with the governor of Dnipropetrovska, Mr. Kolomoyski, was linked to the control of Skrtransnaft and Skrnaft. Then, I remind you, there was a crisis with Mr. Gordienck's accusations, which he accused, there was a company called Energoat. This was followed by the accusation of Governor Saakashvili of Odessa, where the Odessa Portal Plant was located. And this crisis that we finally solved today was caused by the Minister of Economics' statement, where it was also about fighting for a government asset. That's why, Mr. Prime Minister, we support you in this, it's a matter of order. According to the experience of other countries, including Poland, privatization, full and irreversible, it launches the state and the country in the right direction. The second question is that of monetary liberalisation. We are now guided by the 1993 Cabinet of Ministers decree, and no one will ever enter Ukraine, where there is only an entry and no exit of the currency. If the National Bank of Ukraine is not ready to do monetary liberalisation for various reasons at the moment, and perhaps some are even accused of making money on multiple exchange rates, then the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament should resolve the issue. And the third ingredient is tax reform. An offshore scandal that has recently arisen has actually put a very serious point in the debate between fiscals and liberals, and the fiscals have been lost with a huge score. How much? If big business has the right to use offshores, right? - why we don't allow small and medium-sized businesses to pay low, transparent, normal taxes in Ukraine for that. in order for him to develop? Dear colleagues, middle class and small business, in fact, made two revolutions, he led us into power. So we have not to support them, but to show that we are worthy of their trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Papiev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u160	Thank you. Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Borisovich! You have made it very difficult for yourself, and it seems that even an impossible task is to restore people's confidence in the current power. You've received a very difficult legacy from the Yatsenuk Government today. And it is that for more than two years, people have not received a real indexation of pensions and wages, wages have exceeded even in the 1990s, when the economic crisis has been enormous, millions of jobs have been reduced. What is most dangerous today is not the restoration of the territories under Ukraine's control over the past two years. We think and very much hope that you will have enough will and spirit in the near future to correct the terrible mistakes that have been made, and thus at least to draw people's attention to the current Government. And the first thing we insist on is to pay back a pension, a well-deserved pension to the people who have come to Ukraine who have lost that pension today. Over 200,000 people, I ask you to pay attention, in Lugansk, in the Donetsk region today, do not receive pensions. In an anti-constitutional way, single mothers were denied payment. And today, these women have turned to the Constitutional Court, but today, in your will, they will abolish this decision and reinstate pensions to single mothers. In an anti-constitutional way, a pension tax was introduced in our country. Today it is your will, and I am sure that the Ukrainian Parliament will support this decision in order to abolish the disgraceful pension tax and return to the people their blood money. Ten days later, the thirtieth anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Last week, the President made a commitment to the law to which we returned and restored justice to the Chernobylites. And we very much hope that one of your first decisions will be the decision to restore the benefits of Chernobyl, to support the veterans of the Great Fatherland, these are the people who deserve attention today. And they deserved to have both Parliament and the new Government repented of their mistakes by previous Governments and corrected all the hardships and hardships they had brought. And we very much hope that the economic recovery programme will be presented to you, and our country's social development strategy will be adopted at the national level. Because we have not yet heard clear and understandable decisions and proposals for an action plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u162	Pisarenko Valerius, Rebirth Party. Passes the word to Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u163	Dear, dear voters, colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich! I want to go back to the issues that have been discussed today, from global to local. For no one is the secret that a strong village, a strong city, a strong region is a strong power. And when I speak to the newly elected Government, I wish to congratulate him. And I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. Vladimir Borisovich, if you remember, was meeting recently in the Odessa Regional Public Administration, where we were discussing the question of voluntary association of communities. At that time, I clearly and clearly asked questions about the shortcomings that were going wrong: not on the basis of the law that was passed here in Parliament. And the methodology adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, formerly with the support of Kirilenko and Zubko, is not supported in our region. I and a number of people's deputies have already appealed to the court, administrative, to make appropriate changes in the methodology. I would very much like this to happen without trial. The second is about the Odessa-Rani road. I ask this question so often: this road leads to Europe, this is the road of international importance "M-15". I stress and ask you that only with your participation in Tatarbunars, in Sarat or in Bolgrad can we raise this issue by doing some work. We have passed the relevant law. How it works: it works in all three areas except Odessa. Our voters, Odesschina and Ukraine were not interested in the relationship between Yatzenuk, former Prime Minister, and Saakashvili. They need to solve this issue, these highways that have been destroyed. This road is the most negative – the last place on the list of roads, the state of these roads. And the last. Vladimir Borisovich, you will not order, and your programme, which is presented, cannot be implemented without the work of local governments, district, state and regional administrations. Note today the heads of district administrations at Odesskin, already 5 people have expressed mistrust by the district councils, 5 more or 5 more heads in the district administrations will soon go nowhere as well. I very much ask that the work with the staff be the main one, including for the Cabinet of Ministers, precisely with the personnel you appoint, and with the personnel on which you agree to be assigned. I believe, and I hope, that these requests are people's demands, you will pay attention to them, and you will take the decision and the participation that will help resolve the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u164	Thank you. I'd like to invite Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party, please. One second, please. Dear colleagues, this will be a closing statement, and I very much ask all the national deputies to enter the hall, in 3-4 minutes there will be a vote. Please come into the hall, let the deputies know. Oleg Valeriyovich, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, for the appointment of Mr. Groysman Prime Minister, voted 206 deputies from the so-called BPT Coalition and the People's Front and the Corps. For the appointment of Mr. Groysman's government, 197 deputies from the so-called BPP coalition, the People's Front, and the carcasses voted. What do these figures indicate? These figures show that there is no coalition in Parliament. The people who have declared formation as though yesterday by the coalition are actually unable to make any decisions without oligarchic groups, which include members of the Party of the Regions from past calls. So I say that the election of Mr. Groysman Prime Minister of Ukraine, the election of the new so-called democratic government, was the result of President Prashenko's plot with the oligarchic groups and with the regions of the oligarchic groups. So I regret that the election of Groisman as Prime Minister and Government resulted in a conspiracy with oligarchs and regionals. The greatest cynicism is that for Mr. Groysman, regionals vote for the new government, including Poshenko, Groysman, and other colleagues, they hide the ideals of Maidan. You drowned these ideals of Maidan when you made a deal with the regionals for the sake of authority. So is there a need to discuss the Action Programme of the new government chosen as a result of the Conspiracy of Dust and Regions? There's no need for that. Because the Action Programme of this new government is clear. Who doesn't know who's happy with the idea that this government is going to do something, I'll tell you what they're going to do. Raising retirement to 70 years old, selling Ukrainian lands, continuing to tax pensions, raising housing tariffs, serving oligarchs, further: engaging in corruption, abuse and all the other disadvantages that people have lost confidence in power. Therefore, the faction of the "Radical Party" unanimously did not vote in favour of the appointment of Groisman as Prime Minister. The Radical Party faction, in opposition, did not vote unanimously in favour of the appointment of a new government, which is the fruit of the oligarchs and President Prashenko. The "Radical Party" faction will not vote in favour of an oligarchic government action programme. The "Radical Party" faction stands in opposition to the President, to the government, to a coalition that is not really there. We are in opposition to the oligarchic coalition and call for the unification of all democratic forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the closing word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to turn on Vladimir Borisovich Groissman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u167	Thank you, fellow Members, for your speeches, your critical remarks. I said that. In our report on the Government’s Action Programme, we will work out an operational plan within a month, and we will certainly do so together with the Ukrainian National Deputies and the factions. The only thing I want to say is to finish. You know, all aspects of life need our attention, support, understanding, and decision-making. But the only thing I want to say is to refer to Ukrainian nationals, Ukrainian citizens. You know, as much nonsense as I've just heard in the performance, I've never heard in my life. That's why I want to tell you. [[Applause]] So I want to tell you that the decisions that this government will make will be directed towards the service of the Ukrainian people. As for the oligarch conspiracies, more often, colleagues, look in the mirror, and you will see those who are in conspiracies with the oligarchs. Thank you, Your Honor. Please support the Government's Activity Programme, take an active part in 30 days to work out an operational plan, and we will go forward and develop our country. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, article 227 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts the draft Decree No. 4426 on the approval of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:23:09]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I've put the vote back once. And I'll take that right once. This has been the case all the days before, and so it will be today. Once more to the vote. I ask the factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, we have not yet ceased the mandate of the deputies, we must do it now. They were sitting in the government's bed, they just had to go back to their jobs. And Greenwich, and many others, colleagues. This is their right, which they have not exercised. We have to give them the opportunity to take advantage of that right. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of what is going on. And I ask the factions to mobilize members to vote. Ready, guys? Yes, everyone in place? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to return to ruling 4426. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[14:25:12]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote in connection with the protests that are in the hall that signal a nonpersonal vote. According to the Rules and Norms I will now re-set because there are protests about non-personal voting. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, all mobilized in the hall? I am voting on the motion to return to Supreme Council regulation 4426. Whoever supports this proposal, I would like to vote, please. [[14:26:40]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, please remain in your seats! And I'm re-voting Decree (4426) as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote, colleagues, vote! [[14:27:13]] For 222 Society, I give the floor to Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u169	Dear fellow national MPs! I'd ask you all to calm down and not make a problem where it's not there. Once again, I would like to urge the Ukrainian National Deputies to approve the Government's Action Programme, which we have just approved with you, which we have just approved, and to move on to the government's tasks. I think it's quite obvious and needs your support. So I would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be consistent and to support the Government's Programme of Action, which has just been presented to you. Ready? I see, I see, the MPs are coming in, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u170	Colleagues, attention, I put to the vote at your request, I did it. Once again, I would like to return to the ruling, my fellow Prime Minister, at the request of the Prime Minister. I very much ask all the deputies to come into the hall, I very much ask everyone to take their seats. And I'm voting on the motion to return to the consideration of Decree 4426, please vote, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[14:29:36]] For 223 Dear colleagues, as promised, I no longer put to the vote. Now I'm on the right of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we haven't finished our consideration, I have the right to call a recess. And I'm announcing, according to the Rules, a 15-minute recess for consultations. Thank you. 15 minutes off. In 15 minutes, we're meeting in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs, get ready for work. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall. The secretariat of the Supreme Council is requested to inform the deputies of the continuation of our work. And I'm asking the faction secretariats to invite the deputies into the hall, please. Dear colleagues, once again I urge you to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the hall again. And I would like to report that some of the deputies were on committees, as provided for by the Rules. So they were on committees at lunchtime. Now they're coming from the committees to the session room. It's respect for our colleagues, we've had committees planned, and we're just waiting a few more minutes for members to come up, MPs who are members of factions who have been on committees, and we've taken part in the vote. I'm asking you to come in and take your jobs. And we're waiting for our colleagues to continue our work. Please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you, we're continuing our work. I would like to report that I have already signed all the decrees that we have adopted today regarding the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that, in addition to the question that we have identified, this is the timely suspension of the powers of some Ukrainian national deputies, we have a very persistent request from Olya Chervakov to vote on one ruling in Cotsubinsk. And she's convinced that if we don't do it today, it's going to lead to unexpected consequences. We can change our decision, society, but only by joint vote, by joint decision. And that's why I'm going to put the motion separately so that we can consider this decision today. It'll take ten minutes, company. But this is a very important question. This will be done only by your consent and only by the decision of the hall. But I want to warn you about that. And another, a respected society. We decided to continue our work after lunch. A number of deputies, as I said before, went to work on the committees and were unable to take part in the vote. And with your permission, society, given their request, those deputies, they didn't know there was going to be a sequel, so I'm going to put it back in order. I think this is an important issue today, and we must conclude its consideration today. And I invite you to speak before we vote, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u172	Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to ask you to return to the issue of approval of the Government’s Action Programme. In fact, we need to get started. And I would very much like to. That's all. I took a long time to perform, but in my speech I touched every aspect of our country's life and the main thing was the Ukrainians. And I think that there are positions that have to be implemented so that the crisis doesn't get worse, and the crisis has been turned into a solution, into a success. So it is up to each of you to vote. I would very much ask you to go back, vote, support the Government's Action Programme, support the government, and we will continue to work with you on the tasks facing Ukrainian society. Glory to Ukraine! And I'd like everyone's support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was talking about that our system of work should not be about mutual destruction. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. In my report, I was talking about how we need to learn to live a new life, not for self-destruction, but to feel like partners in a shared task. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Mr. Sergei, with great respect to you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. And I am voting for a motion to return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (4426). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[15:21:53]] For 251 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (No.4426) – in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[15:22:25]] For 243
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u174	Dear colleagues. Give me your word. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u175	Please, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank every national MP who has supported the Government's Programme of Action. I've been telling you from this rostrum that we're going to do everything we can to make sure that we're not ashamed of our work together. And I invite everyone, and I invite everyone to work together. Emotions calmed down, and we need to work for Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-14-m0.u177	Thank you. We wish you success, we wish you fruitful work in reforms in Ukraine, in fighting corruption and in winning the Ukrainian cause. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, Kotsubinski, one minute. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, Kotsubinski. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am. I'm a companion. I ask you very much to support the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Decision on the early termination of the powers of the Cotsubina Village Council in connection with actions that violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine (number 4383). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[15:24:12]] For 256 Decision taken. I request a summary of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. Is there a objection in the hall that we should proceed to the vote? Is there no one here? Then I put to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Cotsubin Village Council in connection with actions that violate the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine (number 4383) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[15:25:06]] For 260 Decision taken. Hello! And, colleagues, the question of a permanent suspension of the powers of deputies. We have to show a new style of work that on the same day all the national MPs who were elected to the government are in charge. This will be wise. And I want to read out the statements that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that's going to be an indicator of a high political culture. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Lilia Greenevich. A statement. "In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4, part one, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, I am in charge of my appointment as Minister of Education and Culture." I ask you to vote in favour of suspending the term of office of Deputy Lilia Grinevich. Please vote. Please vote. [[15:26:40]] For 269 Decision taken. Mrs. Lilie, we're going to miss you in the Supreme Council, but we hope for close cooperation in government quality. Thank you. A similar statement came from Groysman Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, a statement. "In case of appointment, please." Anyone who supports this statement by Groysman, please vote. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. [[15:27:28]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have seven identical statements. Should I read every one of them? These are statements that the permanent termination of the MP's powers, they're all identical. Yeah, I read the first one and I said the next one is identical. Let's move on to the next one. Call from the People's Deputy Klimpus-Cincadze on the permanent establishment of parliamentary powers in connection with the appointment to the government. Who supports Klimpush-Cincadze's statement, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[15:28:19]] For 268. Decision taken. The following statement by Stepan Kubov about the permanent termination of the mandate of the national deputy. Dear colleagues who support this statement by Stepan Kuba, please vote. Please vote. [[15:28:49]] For 269 Mr. Stephen, it is difficult for us to release you from the Supreme Council. You've also been successful in working together. Next statement from Kutov Taras Viktorovich, an identical statement about the permanent termination of the authority of the People’s Deputy. Anyone who supports this statement, please vote. Please vote. [[15:29:36]] For 265 Decision taken. Mr. Taras, to work together in a different way. A statement from Ostap Semerak stating that the mandate of the national deputy is to be terminated on a permanent basis. Anyone who supports this statement, please vote. Please vote. [[15:30:09]] For 263 Decision taken. Mr. Ostap, a fruitful cooperation with Parliament, do not forget about Parliament. And the last statement is a request to the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Nasalika Igor, for the permanent suspension of the powers of the people's deputies. Whoever supports this statement, please vote. Please vote. [[15:30:52]] For 256 Decision taken. Mr. Igor, productive government work. And I'm giving a protocol order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draw up appropriate personal decisions. Dear colleagues, we've shown a high political culture, I'm sure, and under consideration all the issues, and during the presentation of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, I have a question for you. Are we doing an hour of questions to the government tomorrow? No, they say no. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. I'm asking you to come to the hall tomorrow at 10 o'clock to continue our work. I hope she'll be just as fruitful. Today was a very difficult but effective, decisive and crucial day in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Welcome to tomorrow. I'll see you later.
