ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for registration. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please turn on the registration. Please register. [[10:04:34]] There are 343 deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Gennady Borisovich Bobov. And according to the Rules on Tuesday morning, we have 30 minutes for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Before I go to the presentations, I want to point out that today we have two blocks to look at. It's a block of finance and banking and a block, it's a bigger, law enforcement issue. A lot of questions, they're important. And I'm asking everyone to adapt to meaningful systemic and efficient work. And now I'm asking the factions to record the performance. Please. Only two factions showed a desire to speak. Soon there will be no desire to speak out of factions at all. And I invite you to the word "self-help" of Alona Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Today the situation is that we pay attention to so many things that are happening around us. People are on the street right now. There's a question of tariffs, there's a question of bank loans, there's a lot of other things. But life continues, and it is extremely important that Parliament today remembers to make decisions that are to stabilize the situation in our country and not to allow the development of what needs to be preserved. And this is about housekeeping, about managing our dwellings, about the timing of our garbage disposals from our houses, about making contracts for water supply, heat, electricity, gas. It's about the fact that today's day is not about the Housing Services Act. If you and I don't accept this law by the new year, your honors, we're going to have a breakdown in our housing management. I want each of you to pay attention to why this is going to happen. More than a year ago, you and I passed the Law on the Features of House Management, we opened up a housing management market, we went to contractual relationships in defined housing management prices, but we didn't give a tool, we didn't put a request on the manager, we didn't put a standard management contract in order for this market to actually work, and the Housing and Utilities Service Act, which is ready for second reading, to be adopted here in this room, is delayed. Dear colleagues, 3200, the minimum wage to be paid in Ukraine's economy since 1 January, will not be implemented, nor will the people at all be able to make normal housing contracts without this law. I very much ask the Parliament, the Head of the Supreme Council, of all the heads of factions to put this law in order of the day to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not allow a collapse in the HKG, it's just impossible. In the background of all the events that are going on, something has to be stable, and this stability is the management of our apartment buildings, it's the supply and reliability of water, heat, electricity, gas, it's the reliability of garbage. I very much ask that all of us concentrate and adopt this law. If Parliament believes that this foam thing that is in this bill is unacceptable, let's rule it out, but let's not allow the imbalance in the housing-communal sphere. We'll start a contractual normal relationship and open up a management market for each house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u3	Thank you. Galchenko gives the word "Vilkulu" from the "Occupy Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u4	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies! Power is finally destroying our country, robbing people, and making unconscionable profits in war. Thousands of people on the street are telling this authority that it can't go on like this. But the Opposition Block doesn't want a mutiny for the sake of rebellion, it doesn't want another coup for the coup, and it doesn't want to replace one party of war in Parliament for another party of war. The only thing we need is those who are afraid to get away from the food market in three years, becoming multimillionaires. And we need a single, peaceful, independent Ukraine. We insist on the adoption by power of our laws, which we have been fighting for the past two and a half years, and which are blocked by a coalition in the Supreme Council. First, it is our bills 2342 and 2347 to abolish the looting public tariffs and limit their total income to no more than 10 per cent of the family's income. Establish a minimum wage of four and a half thousand bracelets and a minimum pension of two and a half thousand in the framework of the adoption of the budget law. By desecrating 82 banks, 4 million people were robbed of power. We demand the adoption of our Bill 5391, which will ensure payment to all bank investors. To prevent the sale and destruction of agricultural land - Bills 5241 and 5330 - from rising prices of socially significant goods and foodstuffs, and to ensure that they are regulated - Act No. 1021. It was only on October 1st that the monopolies raised 40 per cent for many foods, such as chicken and egg prices, when they removed at least a bad but state-of-the-art diet. We demand the adoption of our new industrialization package, support for the national economy and job creation, and the real decentralization and transfer to the regions of money that is breaking up in Kiev, as well as powers. In order to do so, it is necessary to end the war and restore peace in Ukraine. Our bills for the implementation of the Minsk Agreements have been in Parliament for over a year. These are both our demands and the demands of most Ukrainians. They should be included in the State Budget Act 2017. If that is not the case, the Government must resign on the same day, and Parliament must go to the elections. In order to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, the opposition bloc begins a peaceful protest movement in all regions of the country. Our regional organizations are launching rallies, pickets, early sessions on boards at all levels. The patience of the people has burst. And we hope that those who are in power today, including the deputies, have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u5	How much do you need? Please finish one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u6	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u7	15 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u8	We hope that those who are in power, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers, Heads of State and deputies from the coalition, will play an essential self-preservation instinct, if not a healthy one. Stop destroying the country and making people miserable. And Ukraine is far from the right to speak for us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u9	Thank you, mate. Please, Mr. Moskalenko of the will of the people. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians! For the next six months, they will be unique to the Ukrainian nation. Either Ukraine will be a sovereign, competitive, independent Ukraine, or it will be destroyed on a geopolitical map of the world. Both will be done by the hands of the Ukrainians themselves. I would like to address from this high-priority rostrum to President Peter Poshenko, Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, to the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paris, to Arsenius Yacinuk as the head of the People's Front Party, to all without excluding the heads of factions, groups that I respect, to you, honourable fellow national MPs. The Ukrainian bomber slipped from the competition of images of the future to a dirty struggle for power. I know for certain that while politicians serve the American, European, and Russian bosses, Ukraine will not be an independent state. In making decisions, you and I need to remember one thing: From the decisions we have made, the philosophy of life of the 45 million people depends on the speeches we make behind this rostrum. When making decisions, we should think of the Ukrainian as we think of ourselves. In making decisions, we should love a simple Ukrainian child as we love ourselves. In making decisions, we should care for the pensioner, as we want him or her to care for us or our parents. And then, dear fellows, we all have the right to power. And then, dear colleagues, we each have time to show how we care about our own daughter Ukraine. From this high - ranking rostrum, I turn to the Ukrainian people: Do not give in to hostile provocations that want to destroy Ukraine. Because the protests that you are being called upon will not increase the execution of our state and will certainly not make your life richer and will not stop the war. Because only mutual respect and understanding can stop a war. Only by uniting together will we overcome the crisis. Only by loving one another will we be able to build a strong, independent country. I want you to think about it, dear colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Moscalenko. Dear colleagues, the other factions did not sign up for the performance. Is there a desire in the Radical Party to speak? Please. After all? No one's signed up anymore. Please, Fatherland. I'll be right there. Now we're going to finish this section of our "Faction Leaders Show." Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Irina Lucenko's deputy director of the faction. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear speaker, vice-speaker! Parliament's main task this week of the Block Party. The Peter Prashenko faction considers the adoption of Bill 5390, which will protect the fraudulent investors, and the consideration and adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017, which will protect Ukraine and the common interests of Ukrainians by raising twice the minimum wage, by raising social standards, by helping pay for residential services. I would like to point out that the drafting of Bill 5390 has been made possible by the President of Ukraine. And it's being introduced by the Head of State today as an author. At the same time. Frauded investors hope to support not only our coalition, but also the voices of those political forces that have been leading and bringing to the National Bank today, and on Kiev Street for the show, for the money of the show for the money. I note that bank investors have been deceived, not by the state, but by the owners of commercial banks, by those who invent schemes, schemes, by avoiding the sale of property and by not giving up their investments. Nevertheless, over the past two years, the Fund has returned some 70 billion dollars to investors. These costs are compensated for by the sale of the debtor’s assets. By the way, yesterday we received a ruling from the court of Shevchenkov, Kyiv, who, on a request from the Attorney General of Ukraine, arrested the Guliver property complex for the theft of the Bank of Mihailovsky. In doing so, I cannot help but overlook the political speculations that have arisen around fraudulent investors who have been deceived by unscrupulous bank owners. As we know, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine is accused of closing down several dozen banks. Yet we must realize that the National Bank has made decisions in the interests of all Ukrainian citizens. The opposite approach was demonstrated in 2009, when commercial banks received 84 billion refunds, some of which have not been recovered to date. The then head of the National Bank was in full agreement with the then prime minister of Ukraine. Today, one of them owns a bankrupt bank and the other organizes protests. But no one is talking now or mentioning 24 billion refinancing, which is the $3 billion that is needed today for the Ukrainian budget, which has not been returned to this day since then. So Valérie Gottarieva had a choice: to redistribute billions to investors of banks or to act in the interests of Ukraine. In fact, there was no choice. That's why the banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u13	Please add one minute to the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u14	That's why the banks were closed. These are the envelope banks, these are the Kurchenka, Klimenko wallets that used them to steal money from ordinary citizens abroad, offshore. Because it is impossible to save the financial assets of the bank’s gates by taking the money that will go to defend the country. Because it is unfair to take money from half - hungry pensioners so that a group of cunning bankers will continue to have a fortune. This choice stands before us today — to act almost always in the interests of individual groups — to engage in lobbying or to approve the difficult and bold decisions that the country demands of us today. I call on everyone consciously.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u15	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u16	I urge everyone consciously to choose Ukraine. As the authorities do today, as the coalition does today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. From the Rebirth Grape, please, Anton Yatzenko is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u18	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The MP's Rebirth Group today insists on considering and adopting one of the bills, or mine, or Berezi, 4,548 in order to repeal the so-called Savachenko Act. Sadly, good intentions are said to pave the way for hell. And today, Ukraine has turned into the story of "The Cold Summer of 53." I'll say it turned out to be 8, over 8,000 criminals under the Savchenko Law. At the same time, 785 people have committed repeated crimes. They committed 22 murders, 18 serious bodily injuries, 10 rapes, 405 thefts, 405 thefts, 131 robberies, 66 robberies, 20 cases of bullying. And that's because we don't have all the crimes being investigated, unfortunately, and there's no 100 percent opening the bridges. Therefore, the MP's Rebirth Group insists on halting crime in Ukraine and adopting this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u19	Thank you, Your Honor. And now we haven't signed up for a few factions. Is it going to come from Fatherland? Not yet. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I wonder why the leaders of some political forces, which are usually multilingual, today, when the country is in a turbulent zone, have decided not to speak and remain silent, and they do not want to take the floor. I think the responsibility of politics is always to speak openly and honestly to our own citizens, to our own electorates. It's not just sitting around waiting, it's how it goes, and then I'm going to get used to it. Like in that movie "The Wedding in Malinovka": White people come, one hat of clothing, red people come, another hat of clothing. It's not a leader. A leader should not be afraid to express his position. Respectable citizens! Dear fellow MPs! A few weeks ago, our Law to Continue the Moratorium on the Sale of Agricultural Lands was passed jointly in this Parliament. I want to thank all the national MPs who supported our initiative and continued this moratorium. My esteemed colleague, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, and yesterday on the Conciliation Council, and everywhere on the air, tells us that the continuation of the moratorium is just her achievement, and that that's what she chose. I mean, defeat is always an orphan, and in the victory of many parents, it's the achievement of farmers, it's the achievement of peasants, it's the result of the joint work of every national MP and the task of not stopping at the moratorium. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I think your rich political lexicon has a deficit in the word "thank you." My late grandmother used to say, "Don't feel bad about thanking me, it doesn't cost you anything, it makes people happy." That is why we should thank everyone. I'm talking about who continued the moratorium. Here's a letter in my hands signed with the International Monetary Fund since 2008, Prime Minister Timoshenko, where your signature, if you've forgotten, is Julia Volodymyrna, and here's in this memo. And I'll show you the powder, here's the signature and the powder. And in this memorandum of introduction of the agricultural land market. I'm glad that after you stopped being Prime Minister, you supported our initiative not to sell land because selling land is a crime. And the brothers sign off on selling the land by power, and then, when they go into opposition, tell them that against selling the land, it's cynicism and pharisaicism. I urge you, Your Honor Julia Volodymyrna, I thank you personally, I thank you for your faction that we have continued the moratorium on land sales with you, and I urge you to continue to unite your efforts together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u21	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u22	I urge you to continue to join forces to protect Ukrainian peasants in order to prevent the authorities from looting their land, to stop together the terrorist genocide that is now taking place. And, most importantly, Julie, don't forget to thank me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u23	Please, several times Mrs. Timoshenko’s name has been mentioned. Julia Volodymyr, please. We've, you've just taken the last word for the speech, and now the People's Front has reserved the right to speak with the last. "The People's Front" today is the last to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, Fatherland is refusing to speak, isn't it? Then, please, to the rostrum, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is invited to the floor. Please turn the time on. Please turn the time on. I announced to the representative of the Julia Timoshenko faction. Please turn the time on from the rostrum. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u25	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u26	We don't see the show. And the final performance in the debate is given to the representative of the People's Front of Victoria Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I think "Paternity" has the right to play just like all factions, so I think we're not the last ones in this case. I want to say that I think now in these days about the anniversary of Maidan, which we will soon celebrate with you. Just three years ago, remember, Yanukovic and Azarov sold to Moscow, remember the government meeting when Azarov announced that we were now with Moscow forever. Then a spontaneous protest by millions of Ukrainians after Mustafa Nayem's fasting, which here turned into a revolution and destroyed all Putin's plans. In the People's Front, by the way, there's no man who wasn't on Maidan, and more than half after that, they just went to the front. But I'm not talking about the People's Front right now. His name is Ustom Hungry, he's from the Democratic Alliance. I remember him very well because he was very cold on Maidan, and I asked him to go warm up, and he said I wouldn’t go because. Because I'm here for the future. It was then that he defeated Putin, his colleagues. It's him. I often ask myself, and what have we done here today to make his dream come true, to make sure that we are not in Moscow, that we are in Europe, and that we have our Ukrainian European future? Yeah, we're not doing it all. Yes, we have fulfilled all the requirements of the European Union, and we are not given a visa-free regime yet. Yeah, we created the NABU, but we know that corrupts don't sit there all the time. Yes, we know that companies continue to steal, and we know that with you. Now I've made one law, please support it, and it's a little difficult to steal from state enterprises. But on the other hand, let's remember how much we did. Hanya Hopko, how many meetings have you had with the EU to give us the car, Ukraine, and not the Ukrainian authorities? Yegor Sobolev, when you were doing the illustration, did you believe that we would ban all the gangs that are here sometimes, from working in the authorities? Did anyone believe that? Vika Vojcicka, when you were running with the Act on Shareholders, did you believe you could take Skrnaft to the oligarch? And you can raise their rent, like the Yatzenuk government did, and make them pay taxes? Oleg Lazko, when you fought for this Forest-rounding Act, you created the Ukrainian industry, you knew it wouldn't please the EU, but you did. We did it for what? Because we're building our country. Olena Kondratuk, Ira Herashchenko, Kola Knajicki, we believed that we would be able to make every Ukrainian song in radio broadcasting and ban Russian shows. We believed that we would build a Ukrainian culture. We were told you'd freeze to death without Russian gas. For two years, Arsenius Yatzenuk has shown us, we will not freeze, we can diversify. We stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u28	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u29	We have become one of the poorest countries in Europe. Yes, we are building Ukraine today. It's hard. It's just as hard for those soldiers on the front today. I brought one here. We brought you this mine. Those who go to the front know what it is. It's a fragment of a mine, and don't let God tell you what's left of a man when that mine breaks, and what's left of the tank. I know about this operation "Satan," which we've been told about, and that there are a lot of people who want to play it to make sure that these mines are here in Kiev today. And our task, I think, is to keep it from happening. Ira Herashchenko said yesterday that she knew many colleagues who are moving to Moscow in Minsk. Consider this my request to the Ukrainian Security Service. Who's doing it, who's flying there and why, and for what money here in Kiev, we're trying to bring all these mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u30	Colleagues in the hall, I'd like to ask you, would you mind if I gave you one more minute? Age doesn't come from a faction. So I'm asking you to give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u31	You know, thousands die for Ukraine, but some are willing, unfortunately, to kill for power. If there's a shooting in Kiev, it's not an activist shooting, it's an agent shooting. And we're going to go over there and stand next to those Ukrainian police guys that I leave here today, died protecting Ukraine. [[Applause]] You know why? Because there is no greater honor than to die for your country. And to fight for power by using the enemy’s money to hire people with weapons, by deceiving them, is probably the greatest sin that could ever be in life, and there will be no forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a message. The manipulations that are taking place in us, unfortunately, each time with the performances, should be stopped. When. I'll give you my word. When it is not written down, then it is for judgment to determine who is speaking. I'm giving the Apparatus an order to record not four people from next Tuesday, but all those who sign up. And whoever doesn't do the recording, he just won't get the word. There's got to be justice, there's got to be a record of all the factions that are registered, and there's got to be a sequence. And don't make the presidency an object for manipulations if they're just not recorded to determine who and when they're going to have the word, the deal is that it's fair, my friends? The following Tuesday’s apparatus is full of recordings of all, not just four, who are willing to speak. Whoever signed up will be speaking. I now give the floor to the representative of Fatherland. Who's gonna be from Homeland? Yuri Suhevich. Please, Mr. Yuri. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, pay attention! To relieve the tension in the hall, I now received a verbal statement from two political factions. [[Noise Nodes]] Oleg, yes, Oleg Lazko and Maxim Burbak. Colleagues, a statement came from two political factions, the People's Front and the Radical Party, asking for a break. A break? Not a show, huh? Show me your application, Maxim. Show me your application. A proposal came from two factions, and I'm asking them to take a break from the rostrum. Maxim, talk to me. Colleagues, according to the Rules, two factions call for a recess. I'm forced from the Bureau to call a recess. And I'm calling it an 11-hour break, calling it a break. Please be in the hall at 11 o'clock so we can continue our work, colleagues. I'm asking you very much, today's tense agenda, colleagues, at 11 o'clock, asking everyone to be in the hall so that we can continue our work. I ask the head of the People's Front faction and the Radical Party, who demanded a recess, to enter the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Oleg Lashko and Maxim Burbak. Thank you. At 11 o'clock, we'll continue our work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, 11 o'clock, we continue our work. Please come into the hall and prepare for the day - to - day consideration. I would like to point out that today's first day is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and executive bodies of the member states of the European Union on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy security and the potential risks of implementing projects for the construction of transit pipelines around Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament must express its position on the events that are unfolding around the North Stream. And I am sure that this question will unite the entire room, and as far as I know, this Appeal supports all the factions that are in Parliament. Now we're going to look at it. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and get ready for work. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to make an announcement that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is continuing and to call the deputies to the Chamber. So, your honors, I see the MPs are already entering the hall. I'm going to ask the factions that announced the break, you need a speech, right, after the break? Now we're going to take the floor, three minutes to make a statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. And then we go to Project Order 5329. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now the word Yuri Shuhevich is given on the demand of two factions. Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I came here to speak out from the unification of the patriotic forces of Ukraine. What is it? It's the frontists, it's the volunteers, it's the ones who are united in the name of how in due course they're united in order to keep Ukraine eastward from Russian aggression, so today they're united to keep the situation from unfolding. Shake, for many want to shake. We want peace and peace here. Don't think, gentlemen, some people are clapping here, but some, on the one hand, don't interfere with our neighbor's agents, but some want to warm their hands in this heat and heat their hands on the fire that Ukraine is. and we do not want to allow strife, we do not want to allow blood, and in the name of this, we are united. To be that force of balance, to prevent both the law enforcement forces and the various provokers from disrupting the situation in Ukraine, to lead to bloodshed. But at the same time, we need to say, and who is stirring the situation. You see, reforms don't work. Corruption not only diminishes, it increases, it is. You see another thing that happens in Minsk, who sits there, what powers he has. We are a parliamentary republic, but Parliament has been removed from its control functions. And no one in Parliament wants to say, tell us the truth about who authorized the negotiators in Minsk. He doesn't want to talk about the secret protocols that are signed there, and they are. And we need to know how the highest legislative and supervisory body in Ukraine is signed. People are good, they trade you, they give you up, and you don't know anything. For over a year now, there's been a bill in Parliament on the special status of occupied territories, but we're told they don't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u35	Please, just a minute. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u36	There's an anti-terror operation, and that's what they're saying. No, gentlemen, an election law is being prepared. No, there will be no election. But, you know, let the law lie down, it'll be ready. Does that mean we're being prepared for the election? And they're also talking about self-government. No, there is no separate status of self - government, a special order of self - government. That's what I'm We're being betrayed, we're being poured out. And we need to know what's finally going on. And that's why I think we need to set up a special commission of inquiry and insist on Parliament today that it be created so that we can investigate all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u37	Mr. Yuri, 30 seconds, please. 30 seconds, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u38	that we may investigate in detail and know, and that on the basis of the decisions of that commission, all the guilty shall be brought to account. Because in Ukraine, not only is it treason, not only corruption, but also irresponsibility. And you can't let that happen. I repeat. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u39	Heroic glory! Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I would like to stress that the draft Decision on the Application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments and bodies of the executive authorities of the EU Member States on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy security and the potential risks of implementing projects for the construction of transit pipelines in Ukraine. A general support draft of the ruling. I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and ask everyone to support the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:14:32]] For 148 We didn't make it. Please take your seats, I'll put it again. Take up your jobs, colleagues. So once again, I'm voting on the proposal to review Project Rule 5329 on a reduced procedure, colleague. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we are voting in the workplace. Please be supportive. [[11:15:14]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by presenting a statement from the authors' main point of view: "Ukraine has always been, is and will be a reliable partner of all European states in the field of energy and energy security. Ukraine has consistently committed itself to reforms in the Ukraine’s energy sector. And it is expected that partnerships will be strengthened and even more integrated with EU partners." The statement we are discussing today was signed by 26 national deputies, they are representatives of all factions, including their leaders. These are the factions of the BP, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the PPL and the Fatherland, as well as the non-fractional MPs. We're all, and hopefully, every single one of you who press the "yes" button today, we're consistently speaking, first of all, for Ukrainian national interests. But at the same time, we are also analyzing situations in Europe, and we are giving ourselves a responsible view of European interests in the long run, and we are proposing a solution to the situation. All independent experts today recognize Ukraine as the most optimal geographical and then economic route for gas transit to European countries. At the same time, the aggressor country is finding new and new ways to use the intended causes to raise doubts about our reliability and weaken our transit position. In fact, it is another political weapon against Ukraine. We express deep concern about the intention to build transit gas pipelines around Ukraine and, we believe, they conflict with the EU’s energy security strategy, which is to diversify sources and energy supply routes. He's not answering.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u41	One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u42	They do not meet the objectives and principles of European co-operation, the requirements of the Third Energy Package for the separation of transport functions and the provision of natural gas and for the provision of access to third parties. It deprives the European Union of real competition and will prevent the creation of an energy union in Europe. Accordingly, our statement should encourage our partners in Europe not to allow politically motivated decisions to be made in part of the construction of new transit pipelines around Ukraine and instead to join in the modernization and operation of Ukraine's gas pipeline system with the aim of maximizing its loading and joint provision of seamless and reliable transport and the provision of natural gas to Member States of the European Union in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this statement and to use it constantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u43	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are talking today about a very important appeal to our partners in the European Union. Why it is important and what is the essence of the decision of the European Commission regarding the OPAL gas pipeline, which connects the offshore Nord Stream (North Stream) with the gas transport systems of Central and Western Europe, particularly Germany and the Czech Republic. So Gazprom is going to be able to significantly increase the amount of natural gas flow through the Northern Stream system, actually bypassing Ukraine. For Ukraine, this will cost about $2 billion a year. Such double standards as are applied by the European Union when Gazprom is allowed to violate European laws, he is saying that Europe is undermining the rule of law for short-term financial interests, and parts of companies in Western European countries are undermining the rule of law. And this is going to have negative and long-term consequences of geopolitical and very negative economic impact on the whole of the European Union. And so today we would like to make this call to our colleagues, to our members, to the representatives of Parliament and to the executive authorities of the member states of the European Union on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy security and the potential risks of implementing projects for the construction of transit pipelines around Ukraine. And we say very clearly that as a reliable partner we have adopted a number of important laws and laws, such as the Natural Gas Market Act, the National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities. And so I ask you now to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and to take this decision together with those proposed rights committees that have been handed down to you for consultation. On the eve of the EU-Ukraine summit in Brussels, I ask all parliamentarians who are actively engaged in energy diplomacy to communicate this call. I would also like to thank everyone for this participation in parliamentary diplomacy and say that on December 7 there will be parliamentary hearings: "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." I invite all parliamentarians to form principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich Dombrowski's "Block of Peter Poshenko" gives the floor. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u46	Please give the word to Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u47	Please, Mr. Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! First of all, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I will allow myself to say that Ukraine has been, is and will remain a reliable energy partner for our European partners. Ukraine has fulfilled and fulfils all commitments in the energy partnership between the European Union and Ukraine. In addition, we need to realize that today, in very difficult military circumstances, when our boys die in the East and there is actually a war going on in the country, we find every opportunity to reform the market, the energy market of Ukraine according to the requirements of the Third Energy Package. This gives us the opportunity to face up honestly, openly, to European partners today. We've passed the Natural Gas Market Act, we've passed the Independent Regulator Act, we're working today on a very serious fundamental issue, a separation or anbandling of Naftogazu to meet European standards and standards. We are consistent, honest and open partners for the countries of the European Union. And frankly, we don't quite understand some of the motivated political decisions that make it possible to bypass our mutual commitments, and the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is not a unilateral agreement, it's a bilateral agreement. So I would like to support this decision, and I think it is critical not only for the development of Ukraine's energy sector, but it is critical for the trust between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union. I will conclude with the words that I began: Ukraine was, is, and will remain a trusted energy partner for the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u50	Give the word to Wojcietsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u51	All 25 years of independence in times of peace, in times of war imposed on us by the aggressor country Russia, Ukraine was, is, and will be, a reliable partner in Europe in gas transit. As a country, we have embarked on radical reforms in the energy sector, building on best European practices. At the same time, we are concerned about attempts to increase the impact of the aggressor country of Russia on the European energy market and through the construction of additional transit capacities. We urge our European colleagues, accordingly, to make balanced and wise decisions, to make it clear that increasing Russia's influence on the energy market in Europe can have global negative consequences and lead to destabilization, both economic and political, not only in Ukraine, but in the whole region. That is why we call on the entire Parliament to support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u52	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Passes Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u53	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u54	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. First of all, I want to say that the "Paternity" faction supports this decision because "Paternity" has always stood up and advocated the national interests of Ukraine. This decree is intended to protect our national interests in the use of the Ukrainian gas transport system in conjunction with the European Union. We cannot be bothered that the European Union has recently forgotten its obligations to finance the modernization of the Ukrainian gas transport system. Instead, the recent decision of the European Commission shows that they forget their commitments to the energy security of the European Union and the partners of the European Union, Ukraine. And instead, they provide broad access to the OPAL gas transport system of Russia's Gazprom, thereby undermining the energy security of the European Union and Ukraine's energy security. We call on all factions, and all national MPs, for whom the protection of Ukraine's national interests is a priority, to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u55	Thank you. And the closing statement from the People's Front, Fedoruk Mikola gives the word to Maxim Burbak. Please. And, dear fellows, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! Our country is facing Russia as an aggressor, and the war, it's going on in the east of the country, it's going on in this Parliament, it's going on, and they're trying to drag it to Kiev and other of our district centers. But it does, a hybrid war, run in Europe. And we think that this was a wrong decision by the European Commission that could lead to a fall in transit in Ukraine's gas territory by about 23.7 billion cubic metres, which could cost us $2 billion. Let's mention the results of the last election: Moldova: victory by the pro-Russian President, Bulgaria: victory by the pro-Russian forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't give the Russians any chance to use the gas transport system in Europe as a means of blackmailing our country against the entire civilized world. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this decree. Because we must fight the enemy with all the means available to us. And I also want to assure our European partners that we will be reliable gas suppliers and transitors. Yesterday, during a meeting with Angela, Merkel spoke to the leader of the People's Front, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Let us vote and support our European colleagues in order to correct this tragic mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u57	Thank you, you. Ever since the Wolf Radical Party. Easy. And, colleagues, this is going to be the last performance, isn't it? Please make the closing statement and proceed to the vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u58	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, the European Commission made a decision allowing Russia's Gazprom to increase its Russian gas flow around Ukraine. This decision by the European Commission is detrimental to Ukraine’s national economic interests. We earn at least two billion dollars a year on transit of Russian gas through Ukraine. And when Europeans call us their partners, we want this partnership not only in words, but in fact. This decision affects not only our interests but also the interests of our strategic neighbour, Poland and other countries. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I appeal to the European Commission’s management to abolish my unwarranted, unbalanced anti-Ukraine decision, which is detrimental to Ukraine’s national interests. Only together can we bring peace, order, and stability to our Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u59	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I am voting on a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments and executive authorities of the member states of the European Union on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy security and the potential risks of implementing projects for the construction of transit pipelines around Ukraine. All speakers expressed support for the decision. And so I ask for my position to be reinforced by a vote. So 5329 is based on and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Please. [[11:30:58]] For 264 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next decision, to the next question of order of the day. It's very simple. This is a draft of the Ordinance on the Cessation of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Savchenka (number 5346). You know, our colleague was appointed head of administration. He made an application, as is necessary according to experience and legislation, for the formation of parliamentary powers. Our job is to support his offer. And I'm voting on the motion for a reduced procedure of 5346. Please vote and please support. 5346. Please vote. [[11:32:03]] For-195 The head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Michael Mikolayovich, is invited to the story. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 2 November 2016, the Committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenka Aleksija Juriovich, on the submission of parliamentary powers under article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". The only thing I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian National Deputies that our colleague, Alexi Juryovich, has stated is that he is addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the formation of parliamentary powers in connection with the appointment of the head of the Mikolai District Administration after the end of the probationary term determined by the President's decree. The President of Ukraine's decree of 6 October 2016 set three months of trial and pay in accordance with Ukraine's legislation. The Committee considered all these circumstances and noted that the additional condition that the composition of the parliamentary powers of the national deputy of the country of Savchenka would take place after the end of the probationary period was contrary to the requirements of article 78, 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption, according to which the Ukrainian national deputies could not have another representative mandate, to be on the public service. And in the event of such circumstances that violate the requirements for non-conformity of a parliamentary mandate, the national MP shall terminate such activity or make a personal application within a period of twenty days from the date of the occurrence of such circumstances. This is also contrary to article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the early termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we will support the legitimate proposal of the National MP to form a parliamentary mandate. And please prepare to make a decision. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the power of Ukrainian National Deputy Saucenka number 5346. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:35:01]] For 208 208 for. Colleagues, I'll put myself back on my own. I hope it's just the MPs. Yes, there is no need under the Rules. I, colleagues, will now put this question to the vote again. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I remind you, the personnel issue does not require a vote in return. All I'm asking is to take up jobs and get ready to vote. Once again, I am putting an order to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Saucenka (5346) for a vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:36:24]] For 205 Dear colleagues, this is a staff decision. At any given stage, I'm going to put it to a vote again after the consultations, because I don't really understand the motive for not voting for the decision. So, dear colleagues, yesterday on the Conciliation Council, a number of important issues were raised that were necessary for inclusion in the agenda. Among them is the question put by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's not a lot of projects, we'll be able to quickly determine by voting. I'm just going to remind you of what those bills are all about. We're not discussing them right now, we're just putting them in the agenda. First, it is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on compensation for natural persons through a system to guarantee the contributions of natural persons to the harm caused by misuse of banking and other financial services. — Number 5390. This is a question that today is acute in society. The president of Ukraine introduced it, this bill, as an urgent matter. But according to the Rules, for us to consider it, we need to include it in the agenda. During lunch, the committee can look at it, and by 4:00, we can get to it. But in order for us to go through this path, in order to be able to make a positive decision today for investors, we need to put it into the agenda right now. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. As soon as we get it into the agenda, I'll give the commission to the committee to consider it as soon as possible so that we can move on to its consideration. Colleagues, as far as I know, support all factions, and I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda for consideration of draft Law No. 5390 on compensation to individuals through the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to the harm caused by misuse of banking and other financial services. Please be supportive. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:39:10]] For 276 Decision taken. I'm asking the Committee on Banking to be considered as a committee in the short term so that we can go into the debate today. Dear colleagues, the next bill, which is 5,350. This is a draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities. This bill is signed by most of the factions' heads: this is Igor Green's Block of Petra Dustenka, and Maxim Burbak, and Oleg Burresuk, and Oleg Lazko, and this was a general call from all factions to include it in the agenda, my colleague. And I'm asking for your support, and I'm asking you to vote 5350 for the inclusion in the agenda of the session, my colleague. Please vote, please support. This is a personal sanction against Yanukovic. Please be supportive. [[11:40:22]] For the 220. Guys, I'll put it back on. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Now the agenda for the day session is very brief questions, I ask you at this time not to leave the hall, but to go into the hall and prepare for the vote. This is the overall agreed position of most factions and the conversion to the agenda of the day session. I place the vote on the agenda of the day session for decision 5350. I ask your support, please vote, colleagues. Vote, please. [[11:41:19]] For 224 What is it? Colleagues, please return to your workplace. We have a period when they come out of the rostrum, then we can solve all the questions. During the vote, I ask you very much to be in the workplace. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the inclusion in the agenda for the decision of Decree 5350, where the majority of the heads of factions are co-authors, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, please vote. [[11:42:13]] For 221 Please, by the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 94, People's Front 64, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 21, Parenthood 16, Radical Party 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u62	Okay. Rebirth Party - 0, Will of the People - 1. Let's put it down. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the order of military service. I would like to remind you, this is the bill that we, the President's veto, and I've committed myself to bringing it up more quickly in exchange for improving the order of military service. The committee quickly carried him out immediately after he had been rejected by the President's veto. Now there's a proposal from the committee and a representative of the President to put it in the agenda. Not for consideration, but just for the day’s session. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of draft Law 5337. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:43:56]] For 240 Decision taken. Next. This is a draft law that has been urged by a number of deputies, and it actually needs urgent consideration. Draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence These are the authors of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, House Arthur Leonidovich. And it's very important for us to be able to get it into the agenda today just so that the committee can look at it. It's not for consideration, it's just for inclusion in the agenda. So I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence, number 5294. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:44:56]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is now a bill, just as it is a day-to-day session, only inclusion. 5368, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine). This is the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. And in order for the committee to look at it on Wednesday, we need to just put it in the agenda. I stress, not for consideration, but just getting into the agenda so that the committee can look at it on Wednesday. I'm asking for the support of bill 5368, the inclusion of the day session. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:45:56]] For 253 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for information, telecommunications and telecommunications systems and means of providing them). Also a request from the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy that the Committee should consider it on Wednesday (5369). Please vote. Please be supportive. 5369, just for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please. [[11:46:37]] For 230 Decision taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the preparation and conduct of the Euro-Employment Song Competition in Ukraine in 2017. Dear colleagues, we need to support the competition that will be held in Ukraine, which is our authority and international authority. And it's only proposed to include it in the agenda of the day session. And I'm asking my colleagues to support everyone. Thus, 5319 is just an order of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:47:31]] For 204 Colleagues, what are the warnings? I saw Ruslan yesterday, and we were actually talking about what we could do to block the Euroworking. It's just a day-to-day session. I don't really understand what a warning is. I'll do it again. We're not talking. I'll put it again: there are voices – there are, there are no voices – there are no voices. Dear colleagues, I am really asking to support the inclusion of the daily session in order to support the Euroworking in Ukraine. Who supports the draft of the Act of incorporation into the agenda for amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the preparation and conduct of the 17th European Song Contest in Ukraine, please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. 5319, please support. [[11:48:46]] For-200 The decree does not have support in the agenda of the day session. Next, colleagues, is a request from Mr. Chubarov. Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for programmes supporting radio companies in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). This is a request from Mr. Chubarov. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to support this initiative. The government agrees with her, ready to allocate budgetary funding. It's only necessary for us to get into the order of the day session, colleagues. I ask you to vote and support the 5333 inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:49:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. And the last decision is in the agenda of the day's session, this is the decree that was registered yesterday, this is the Ordinance on the application of the European Union structures for the introduction of a visa-free regime. Dear colleagues, we agreed on this at the Conciliation Council, we need to show our position and remind Ukraine that it has met all the requirements necessary for the visa-free regime. And for that reason, there has to be a common position of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. The order is registered, it is only proposed to include it in the agenda of the day session, and please support and vote. 5394: Decision to refer to the EU structures on the introduction of a visa-free regime. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please support me. [[11:50:50]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Colleagues, me. I was approached by factions and told that they had held consultations with 5350 -- a draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities. A bill signed by most of the factions' heads. And I'm putting 5350 into the agenda for the decision-making session. Colleagues, I ask your support, and I ask you to vote 5350. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote 5350. Please support me, colleagues, please. The factions recommended that we include him in the order of the day session. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:52:02]] For 224 Two votes. Colleagues, I very much ask you, when factions ask me to ask questions, please be organized to be able to vote and be in the workplace. Colleagues, I'm putting a proposal for the inclusion of 5350 in the agenda. I ask, colleagues, all to mobilize, to be at work and to support the 5350 inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session, a colleague. And Greene is the author there, please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:52:58]] For 221 No votes. Let's move on to the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, please don't transform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can you take up jobs? Here are all the suggestions that were made on the Conciliation Council yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Those that were included yesterday are on the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, can we vote? Can we vote? Colleagues, put it again? Does that make Colleagues, I'm going to put 5337 again. 5337, please take your jobs. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the 5337 session, please vote. Please vote. 5337. Please support 5337, please vote. Please turn on the voting system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, colleagues. 5350. I'll put it to a vote again. I remind you, according to the Rules, it does not need to be returned, I can put it to the vote. And I ask everyone to mobilize who supports the inclusion of the agenda in the agenda of the session, and I ask you to vote 5350, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. [[11:55:39]] For 223 Dear colleagues, so we have to move on to the financial and banking cluster. But there are two factions again. Colleagues, are you, Peter Dusty Block, ready to replace the break with an application? Yeah? Who will act? Please, head of the Peter Prashenko and People's Front factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Front. They've already taken a break. Okay, now, please turn on the microphone. But I would like to point out that only once a plenary week is given. Richkova, please, three minutes. But I would like to stress that only once can the faction take a break. Please, Mrs. Ritchkova, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u63	Good day, dear fellows, distinguished citizens, respected Ukrainians! I'm addressing you, everyone, and I'm asking you to back up the bill. I just got off the phone with the tabloids at the Mikhailovsky Bank, which was mostly affected by the Dnipropetrov region. When I was going to Dniper, I was approached by the families of our soldiers, by the military, by my friends of volunteers, and asked me to support them here, to fight for them, for the common people, I had just been with these people. And please all of you, President of Ukraine Peter Poroshenko has brought to Parliament an immediate bill of 5390 that will allow these citizens who have suffered to recover, most of them do not have any legal education at all, they have been deceived. This law will allow these costs to be paid to 14,000 deceived people. And if you and I are in agreement now and we approve this bill, people will be able to recover this money. First of all, there's going to be a deposit guarantee system for those who are deceived by the Mikhail Bank scheme. That's the first one. Once again, this law will enable people to get their money. I have a woman in the county, she's a disabled son of hers. All the savings they had, 50,000 dollars, all of which are now being paid to the apherists at Mikhailski Bank. Secondly, the responsibility of non-banking institutions that engage in loans from natural persons will be increased. That is, no more people will be able to cheat, write documents, and warn people in writing that they will enter into contracts through financial institutions. And I want to go to Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko, who is now making political points and using people for her own ambitions. Why are you doing this? Let's give people their money back, and enough money for the common people, for the trouble of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u64	Give the replica? Should I Make a Say or Not? There's no replication requirement. Dear colleagues, 12 o'clock. We have the next block, this is banking. He's demanding. That's why I'm asking, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko was named. It was named after Julia Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone and pass on the word. Please turn on Julia Timoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u65	Give John Krulke a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u66	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, here, really, in this room there's a lot of "shut-shutnuts" that are rolling all the laws that people need, just don't put into order the day what really is needed today. So, I ask you, Andry Volodymyrovich, ensure all factions regardless of how many they have deputies, the right to include daily bills in order. We have put in order two bills: 5316 and 5317 – which relate to bank investors involved in charities such as the Bogdan Gavrilišin fund. These bills last week did not miraculously include in the general order of the day when all the bills were voted on. So I ask that this bill be properly considered by the committee, and I ask that you include in the agenda the two bills 5316 and 5317, put them to the vote, and let the hall determine. These are technical bills supported by representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u67	Thank you. I was told by the regulatory committee that the lines were not transmitted. I'm going to continue to count this position, which is not passed on. I'd like to point out that yesterday, at 9:00 p.m., the agenda for the day's session was explained, and I was telling John. You could call me back and tell me what other laws are important. Today, when I'm conducting a session, and I'm going to be able to approach me when I'm running, and I'm going to ask for bills that I haven't even seen, it's not right at all. We're going to have a consultation with you, and on any other day, we can put those bills into the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, at 12:30, we'll move on to finance and banking. Now, according to the Rules, I'm taking a break until 12:30. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 12:30 to start our first block of finance and banking today. I announce recess until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work. We now have a block of financial and banking business. These are the bills we failed to consider last Tuesday. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed, and we stand first in that chapter on second reading. And the first is the bill on consumer credit (2455), and we're going to look at the bill. I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u69	Dear Head and National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (number 2455). To date, Ukrainian consumer protection legislation does not take account of all the specificities of the financial sector. Thus, there is no detailed legal regulation of consumer credit, namely regulation of consumer credit advertising, consumer credit assessment, consumer information on an effective interest rate and other contract conditions, as required by European standards, such as EU Directive 2008/48 on consumer credit contracts. The bill is called upon to settle the issues. The main objective of the bill is to create a consumer credit mechanism that will protect the rights and legitimate interests of both consumers and lenders in this area, create a competitive environment in the financial market, increase the population's confidence in it, and provide favourable conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy as a whole. In addition, the project aims to consolidate the current rules on consumer credit in a single bill. implementing EU Directive 2008/48 on consumer credit agreements. The bill is designed to achieve a balanced legal settlement and provides for the obligation of the lender to grant and explain to the consumer the conditions and features of granting consumer credit. At the level of law, it is the responsibility of banks and other financial institutions to assess the borrower’s creditworthiness. The setting of advertising requirements, in accordance with EU directives on consumer credit agreements, including information on an effective interest rate, prohibits advertising – zero per cent of loans and loans without documentary confirmation of the borrower’s financial position. Deal with the issue of providing additional and satellite services under consumer lending contracts. The consumer will be informed of an effective rather than nominal interest rate, starting with a credit promotion and ending with a contract. An effective interest rate, except for interest on credit, includes other loan payments. Bill 2455 extends to all consumer credits — loans for personal purposes, family needs, and credit for entrepreneurial purposes. Representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine, Nazcomfinservices, Association of Financial Services Markets and experts from international institutions participated in the drafting. In total, 376 proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies, of which 207 were included in part 35, and 11 were taken into account in editorial terms, and 25 were taken into account in fact. A total of 278 amendments were included, 98 were rejected. If you can, give me 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u70	Can we get to the right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u71	If you don't mind, I'll tell you what changes were made to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u72	Please continue for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u73	These are rules that can be interpreted ambiguously and regulated by the Civil Code of Ukraine. The other one. A minimum limit has been imposed on the amount and term of the consumer credit for the purpose of regulating the bill: one minimum wage and at least one month. And there's the possibility of electronic documenting between the creditor and the consumer by consent. As well as a detailed order for creditors to provide consumers with information about the additional and related services of third parties. The terms and conditions of the consumer’s refusal of credit and the settlement of the amounts returned have been clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u74	How much time do you need? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u75	And a detailed procedure and a list of documents to assess the borrower's creditworthiness. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law for Ukraine to be adopted on second reading and in general. We can go to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Let's go to the right. Right-wing authors please prepare for discussion. 1st, Semenha. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 4th, Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u77	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that I would like to point out that this project really has a lot of positive standards for the protection of borrowers, and there really are a lot of norms from the European Union that are being added here. But unfortunately, I think it's going far beyond what's accepted in the European Union. That is, in one row with simple lenders, the bill puts people on the line to take millions of loans for elite real estate — yachts, airplanes, and so on. So in fact, in the European Union, and the projected limit on the amount of credit that it will no longer be considered consumer. And it is in this direction that I propose to impose an appropriate restriction that any loan that is more than one and a half million dollars is not and cannot be considered consumer for the purposes of the law. It's totally socially fair because you can't give such guarantees to, let's say, half a percent of the population that would abuse such guarantees for their own elite life. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u78	Shall we comment, Mr. Ruslan? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u79	Yeah, I'll comment. This is about terms and the definition of consumer credit. The committee believes that this should apply to all types of consumer credit and should not be limited to the upper deck. It's not about protection, it's about transparent conditions of cooperation. And these transparent conditions of cooperation have to be provided for all the borrowers. If someone took this loan to an apartment, that amount should be enough to get this loan into this right field. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u80	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? I'm voting on Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:47:47]] For-94 The decision is not made. 5th. Semenha. Don't insist. 7th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 15th. Semenha. Don't insist. 19th. Gulaev. Don't insist. 20th Amendment. The word is given to Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to point out, colleagues, that on the first reading, you and I accepted that the consumer credit agreement is the amount of credit and interest. But Mr. Demczak's amendment said, "and pay off other payments on terms of contract." I think it's a violation, and it makes the bill worse, and so I'm putting in this amendment, which was supported by some committee, by making the terms of creditors and those who. Those who take credit for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u82	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u83	I'd like to comment. There are other payments under the terms of the contract. The agreement has a standard view, it is confirmed and approved at all stages by the borrower. Of course, we know how to vote for an amendment, more likely than not to get a vote. But I'd like to ask you to vote in favour, because it goes in the entire bill, and we beat one of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm putting 20 amendments to the vote now for confirmation. The committee supports it and the committee requests it to support the Hall. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'll wait until I get Mr. Ruslan's ballot card. So this is an important amendment and committee, and the authors are asking for this amendment to be supported. So I ask the deputies to take up jobs. And I'm betting on confirmation of the bill of 20 people's deputies, Demczak, who the committee is asking for support. And I ask you to support this amendment, please vote. [[12:50:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 24th, Walking. Don't insist. 26th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 29th, Lensky. Lensky, 29th. Don't insist. 31st, Semenha. Don't insist. 32rd Lensky. Don't insist. 40th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 41st, Walking. Don't insist. 42nd, Lensky. Don't insist. 45th, Semenha. Do Not Urge 53rd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 61st, Lavrick. Don't insist. 59th on the right, Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u85	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to place, please, a 59th amendment that took into account the proposal that this law does not extend to loans granted by credit unions to its members. The point is that credit unions essentially provide financial services, but somewhat at higher rates, resulting in a cosmic debt to individuals who are just formal members of the credit union. We can see what has led to the absolute absence of credit union regulation in recent decades. Clearly, then, this law, which protects the rights of borrowers, should apply equally to credit unions, even though there is some way to settle the market. So please place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u86	Please give the committee a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u87	In fact, there was a discussion in the committee about credit unions or whether to include them in this list. But we were professional participants in the credit card market. We were convinced that credit unions, they have a specific activity: they only issue loans to their participants. Those who have received, in the midst of the circle of their participants and who issue loans, are they. That's why we took their arguments and excluded them from the list of financial institutions that are regulated by this bill. So please support, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the profile committee is asking for support for this amendment. All right, everybody, please. And we're putting amendment number 59 on confirmation. Please support. [[12:53:02]] For 131 Unfortunately, there are 130 votes in support. 61st National MP Lavric, not insisting. I'm sorry, 61st National MP Lavrick insists. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u89	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, the essence of the 61 bill is to remove from the list of contracts to which the bill, mortgage contracts, and contracts are covered by the land. Indeed, this article, part two of article 3 of the bill, introduces limits on the amount of loans issued. I realize that ordinary loans to land of 3,000 dollars or 1,600 dollars will not be available. But this is an opportunity to commit fraudulent acts from the point of view of the unscrupulous lenders of the bank. So in order to avoid such possible schemes, I propose simply credit contracts that are made for the purpose of acquiring or preserving property rights to land or any other real estate and/or credit contracts, to fulfil the obligations that are secured.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u90	Thank you. A technical amendment, requesting a national MP, Lavric, to put the vote to the vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:54:49]] For-143 Unfortunately, only 143 votes in favour. Next, National Deputy Yvchenko insists on Amendment No.62. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u91	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to say and support my colleague Lewchenk that the draft law before us does not determine the maximum amount of credit that is not considered consumer by default. I want to say again that this practice of limiting the consumer credit limit is in many countries around the world. And that's what we're proposing to limit consumer credit directly to one thousand minimum wage, that's a million 600, that's a consumer loan, that's normal. We don't want people using consumer loans to take and buy yachts, planes, steamboats. Let us limit, and this is the practice of all European countries. We did this. And in general, I think the completed project is much weaker than the project that was presented to us before the first reading. So I want to say, colleagues, the committee, that we really work for the state, not lobbying some bankers and bank interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u92	The committee head insists on the rep. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u93	I'd like to make a note. This bill at the legislative level prohibits lending in currency. We see how many currency borrowers we have now. And most of the time, there's a mortgage, that's the previous one, that's the apartment. We realize that this could be an apartment, and we don't have to limit a million 600 apartments, but it might be more expensive not to throw them into the wrong field. That's why I think it is. If the following revisions are waiting for us to stop commenting, you don't have to limit this top amount, there's one and a half million, now there's a million 600, the same line to put a dot on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u94	Thank you. I think the hall heard Mr. Yvchenk's amendment and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Yvchenko says that they tied the amendment to the minimum wage, and the committee gave its version. Please confirm the amendment of 62 Mr. Yvchenk, which requires the limitation of these credit agreements. Please vote. [[12:57:25]] For 131 Thank you, 131 votes just turned up. It's not voted. 65th. Semenach's national deputy insists. Please, Your Honor, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u95	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues, number 65 aims at minimizing the possibility of entering into a loan agreement and protecting, above all, the interests of borrowers. What's the point? The law establishes a standard whereby an agreement that is aimed at lending in economic terms is recognized by a credit agreement irrespective of legal design, a formal name. And it will apply to such a contract the very rules of the Consumer Credit Act. So I insist on the importance of this amendment. The draft law introduces a number of safeguards that protect the interests of borrowers when entering into a consumer credit agreement. But what will prevent bad lenders from doing so, especially among non-bank institutions that offer so-called fast loans, from issuing them in cash without any income information, from making contracts that are actually in the context of loan agreements, but are not subject to this law. So I insist on this point, which is really going to strengthen this law a lot and protect consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the national deputy of Semimenach insists on the right hand, explained it, and put it to the vote. Amendment number 65, please. [[12:59:01]] For-143 143 votes, no need. The 67th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Simeoniah. Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on. National MP. Amendment 80, People's Demczak. Is he insisting? Don't insist. No. 81, also Demczak's national deputy. Don't insist. Edit 83, national deputy of Voropeyev. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 84th, Demchak. 85th, Semenha. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 86th, and Semenach. Don't insist. 87th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 89th Dovbenko National Deputy. Don't insist. 93rd National Deputy Levchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u97	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out, unfortunately, that we don't have most of the deputies here. But unfortunately, to call consumer loans 2 million, 2.5 million, 10 million, well, it's, you know, it's not on the head. So there's a law that's very strong in protecting borrowers and applying it to multimillionaires who are going to take credit for yachts. In fact, it's a straight path to continuing the collapse of our banking system, which is still falling apart. Well, that's, uh, that's a comment. In this amendment, I would like to point out that the activity of credit intermediaries is also an activity for the provision of financial services for a purpose. And so I propose to extend to them the Act on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets, because credit intermediaries are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, And this is my amendment that concerns the functioning of credit intermediaries, which also causes huge problems in the consumer credit market. So please consider this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u98	Please, 93 amendments to the People’s Deputy Lehchenka are made to the vote, colleagues. [[13:01:13]] For-129 129 national deputies, not supported. Next, 95th, National MP Lavrick. People's MP Lavric. No, it's not. Then, 98th, Lensky, National Deputy. Don't insist. 100th National Deputy Dovbenko. Don't insist. 102nd, Lavrick. Don't insist. 103rd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 107th, Demchak. Don't insist. 111th, Walking. Don't insist. 115th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 116th Semenha. Don't insist. 125th, Demchak. Boyfriend 125th. Don't insist. Okay. 126th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 130th, Demchak. Don't insist. 138th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 168th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 177th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 179th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 180th, Lensky. Don't insist. 181, Semenha. Don't insist. 182nd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 183rd Bird. Please turn on the microphone, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the point in this article of the bill that the consumer who made the contract on unfavourable terms is entitled to require the creditor to bring the agreement into line with the information given. At the same time, it is not stated what needs to be done if the creditor has failed to bring the agreement into line with the conditions indicated. Therefore, my amendment is that in the event of a failure by the lender to comply with the specified conditions, the consumer has the right to terminate the contract. An amendment has been made to protect the consumer from the unwarranted actions of the lender, from their abuse. Moreover, I would like to point out that we can make an amendment with you to article 9, paragraph 12. Because the text proposed by the committee for second reading has changed a little bit, and this amendment has moved from paragraphs 11 to 12, it's organic there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please put to the vote the amendment, Your Honor's colleague Victoria Ptašnik, 183rd. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:04:07]] For-143 Unfortunately, Mrs. Victoria, 143 votes alone, is not supported by your amendment. Next up, 184th. Deputy Golovaev. Don't insist. 185th Deputy Golovev. Don't insist. Next, dear colleagues. 192nd. People's deputy to Semimenach. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u101	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, in today’s Ukrainian realities, there is a critical need for legislative restrictions on the uncontrolled granting of loans by commercial banks to notoriously insolvent citizens. This is one of the necessary steps to stabilize the state’s financial system. Therefore, in Amendment 192, I propose that the bank be obliged, I stress, not the right, but the obligation to refuse to lend credit to those who have failed to submit documents or information about themselves and their financial situation required by legislation, or who have deliberately provided false information about their financial situation. Otherwise, if you leave an editorial proposed by the committee on second reading, the risks created by this gap will be placed on taxpayers, and the State will have to perform an effective regulatory function. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u102	Please support 192 revisions. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[13:05:36]] For-144 Unfortunately, your amendment is not supported. 196th National MP, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 203, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 204th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 209, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 212th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Boyfriend, 228th. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 229th. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 232. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 239. Don't insist. People's deputy to Semimenah, 241. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, license 241 is an important technical legal clarification. In article 12 of the bill, we establish a list of essential conditions that should be included in consumer credit agreements. What does that mean? A consumer loan agreement will be considered to be a done deal if the parties sign all the essential terms in the contract. At the same time, this may become an abuse, since it is usually the text of a contract that forms credit institutions. And if by manipulating, and even if one essential condition is not laid down in the text of such a contract, the treaty can be recognized as one that is unconstitutional and may not be disrupted in advance, and not in the interests of the consumer. So I insist on this point, I think it strengthens the law, and it protects the borrowers, the consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u104	And thank you. Please, Your Honor, 241 rights of the People's Deputy Seminy, who reinforces the law, please vote. [[13:07:20]] For 165 165 votes, my dear colleague, unfortunately, were not enough. 245 law enforcement, People's Deputy Lavrik. Don't insist. 247th Semenha. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 249, Semenha. Don't insist. 250th, Semenha. Don't insist. 252. Don't insist, okay. 256th National Deputy Dovbenko. Don't insist. 263, Demczak People's Demczak. Don't insist. 271, Semenha. Don't insist. 280th, Demchak. Don't insist. 281, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 282, Lavrick. Don't insist. Excuse me, please turn on Mr. Lavrick's microphone. 282 readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u105	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Colleagues, regulation 282 says that our law should not only think about how to secure the issue of consumer credit, but also think in the event that the consumer has refused to buy a product, and then what happens to the loan that he has already bought this product. Therefore, part of article 16 of the bill is proposed in the following edition. "In the event that the consumer has refused a contract for the purchase of goods or services, it is considered that he has waived the consumer loan agreement for which he is given the money and the payment of the interest and services. And within seven calendar days, the consumer is obliged to pay back to the lender the money received under the consumer credit agreement and to pay interest for the period between the moment of receipt of the funds and the time of their return at the rate set out in the contract." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Please put to the vote the amendment of National MP Lavrik 282, please support. [[13:09:32]] For-164 Dear colleagues, 164 votes unsupported. The 283rd, Semimenah, does not insist. I'm sorry. 292nd People's Deputy Lavrik. Don't insist. 295th People's Deputy Lavrik. Don't insist. 296th National Deputy Voropeyeva. Don't insist. 297th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 300th. Don't insist. 303, Semenha. Don't insist. 305th, Bird. Don't insist. 310th, Yvchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u107	I'd like to put, first of all, a confirmation of amendment 309, because you didn't even look in the hall when you said. What this paper says, colleagues. We have to think a little bit about who do we give priority to in this context? Are we giving priority to banks and to those who are lending, or are we still giving priority to borrowers and saying that we need to change the schedule of repayments for a consumer credit agreement. So here's the next amendment and it says that interest is paid first, and then the sum. On the other hand, a bill is paid, i.e. the repayment of the loan and the late interest on the use of the loan. And that's going to be the right way, because the borrower's going to keep decreasing the amount and keep reducing the time frame. In the 309th direction, it's suggested, first, to pay the late interest, then. for using the loan. In the second and third cases, pay only body and interest for use. That's the whole point of repayment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u108	I see. We're going through the reverse. So if someone wants to bet on confirmation, you have to raise your hand. Now we're asking Deputy Yvchenk to confirm 309 revisions. Please, Your Honor, the committee is asking. I hear it, yeah. The committee is requesting support for 309 revisions. Vote, please. Dear colleagues, the committee supported her, and the National MP, Yvchenko, asks for confirmation. Vote. [[13:11:56]] For 158. Unfortunately, 158 deputies. Next. National MP Yvchenko simply asks to put his 310 to the vote immediately. Vote, Your Honor. 310 of the People's Deputy Ivchenka. [[13:12:22]] For-144 Edit is not valid. Next up, National Deputy Yvchenko, 312. Is it an insistence or an immediate vote? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Your Honor! Here's the situation. In principle, it is the same as the previous one, colleagues. Because Dovbenko's license speaks of a third row, interest on use is paid, and in the fourth, it's just the amount of the principal debt. So this is the extension of the previous lines that we talked about with you. And my 312 says the opposite, so I'm changing, and I'm proposing to change the queue for the borrower's benefit. In order for them not to pay the interest on a regular basis and then the interest on the days spent there and so forth. We still have to, we have to accept this concept. This will be true, believe me, from the point of view of the borrower. And then I ask you to put first on confirmation 311 and then 312 and it changes again this sequence of repayments according to the consumer credit agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, the national deputy Yvchenko asks that the order number 311 be first approved by the People's Deputy Doubenko, who was supported by the committee. Please vote. The committee for this amendment. They supported her on the committee. Please support her now. [[13:14:06]] For-153 153 people's deputies. Then comes the law of the national MP Yvchenka, number 312. Please vote those who do. We have no motive, according to the Rules. Please vote, Your Honor, 312 revisions. Vote. Who's in? And we have literally a few minutes before the vote, and I'm asking my colleagues to come back to the hall. [[13:14:36]] For-140. 140 national deputies supported this amendment. That's why she's not coming through. 318, People's Deputy of Semenah. Don't insist. 320, Walking. Don't insist. 321st Semenha. Don't insist. 330, Walking. Don't insist. 335, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 337, Demchak. Don't insist. 338, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 343, Semenha. Don't insist. 353, Semenha. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u111	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues, with a 353 law, we suggest that we clarify the circle of relations to which the new Consumer Credit Act will apply. That's why we're proposing that we complete the bill's "End" and "Transitional Positions" with such a standard. "As for the agreements that the consumer credit made to enter into force by this law, the provisions of this law apply to those rights and obligations that arise or continue to exist after it becomes effective." In other words, we propose to extend the law and apply it to consumers who have already received such credits that we believe it will remove potential discrimination and protect consumers more fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u112	Please comment, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u113	Well, I'll say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u114	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u115	Just to process all the contracts that are now, their very large array, it's impossible. It's about the Transitional Regulations. I think we should at least start working again. And I think very quickly the financial institutions will pull themselves up because they're interested in being centralized, these contracts, but now they're bound by them, it's, well, physically impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u116	Do you insist on voting? So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 353 people's deputies of Semimenah. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:16:53]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five minutes. I'm also asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to notify the deputies, and the factions' heads to mobilize the deputies in the hall. It's the 354th People's Deputies of Ptashnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u117	Thank you. Victoria Bird, "Dem Alliance." Colleagues, this is an absolutely positive consumer law. And it protects the consumer's interests in making consumer credit agreements. That's why I'm proposing a similar amendment to the direction of Deputy Semimenah, who is also proposing to extend this law to relations that have begun before recruitment. and contracts that were made before the law came into force. But I suggest that we do this not by the consent of the parties, but rather by the consent of the parties. And that's why, on the one hand, this will establish the position that we need the responsibility of two parties to spread this law, and on the other hand, it will give us an opportunity to apply this positive law to consumer lending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u118	Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Victoria? He insists. So, who supports the amendment of the 354 People's Deputies of Ptashnik, please vote, colleagues, please. [[13:18:32]] For 168 The decision is not made. 355th Semenha. Don't insist. We haven't reached her yet. Take a look. 356, Lavrick. Don't insist. 363, Yvchenko. 363, Yvchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u119	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, when we say that the bill in question was actually stronger before the first reading. Second, some standards that protect consumers have been deleted. In particular, we suggest in this direction that in the loan agreement -- I beg your attention! – do not have the right to change the previous one. Well, by credit agreement when signing, the order of the calculation or the change of the interest rate without the consumer's consent. We're talking about that if, without the consumer's consent, the bank changes, it's no longer the protection of the rights of consumers or of those who take credit. We suggest that without the consumer's written consent, the bank's own discretion cannot change the interest rate on loans. Then we will really protect consumers. Let's be honest: if the law was stronger in the first reading, yes; if in the second, some norms were deleted and directly the one that says that without the consumer's consent they can change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u120	Mr. Ruslan, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u121	In fact, the committee accepted the first reading rule. So, uh, absolutely. You say it got worse in the second reading compared to the first reading. Edit the first reading. That's a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u122	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting for the 363, People's Deputy Ivchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:20:47]] For-154 154. The decision is not made. 372. Are you insisting, Yvchenka? 372. 375th. Are you insisting, Mr. Yvchenko? No, it's not. Colleagues, we've gone through all the paperwork, the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please. Please come into the hall. Now for the closing statement, one minute I'm giving to the representative of Demczak's committee, Ruslan Evgeniovich. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the decision-making room. Please, one minute, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been working with representatives of the financial market on this bill for about a year and a half. He's been waiting nine months for his second reading vote. The market awaits transparent working conditions under new European rules. As I said before, this is the implementation of European directives -- a long-imagined bicycle, which we are both advertising and document types, and by disclosure of information, we are simply copying today with implementation into our legislative acts, and today we are giving our consumers the opportunity to be effectively protected and then able to stand firm in court, because these standards are prescribed very well. I very much ask you to consult today and such an important bill that protects consumers of financial services, to support. Because this applies to the entire population of Ukraine, and so we will ensure in the future that maybe not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u124	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, I ask you to enter the hall. All factions support this bill. It's important to just mobilize, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Consumer Credit Act (number 2455) in second reading and in general. Colleagues doing a six-and-a-half-year job, all the corrections included, I ask you to maximize your mobility and vote in second reading and in total 2455. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:24:29]] For 247 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The law is passed. Colleagues, the next law has much less rights, much less rights, literally a few rights. We're moving to the next law, the second reading, 2456-d, this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. And I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the committee of Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, you also have a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services (registration number 2456-d). The bill is linked to that bill that we just voted 2455 on consumer credit. The aim of this bill is to establish an effective system for protecting consumers' rights to financial services, removing gaps and inconsistencies in the legal and regulatory protection of financial services consumers in other normative instruments. We voted in favour of the basic document, but it has an interaction with other documents. The second reading of the bill takes into account the question of the compatibility of the European Union Directive 2007/64, which regulates the protection of consumers' rights when receiving payment services. The bill clarifies the definition of basic concepts and harmonises the legislation applicable to consumers of financial services. In addition, financial services market regulators are required to protect consumers’ rights and rights of use in this area. The bill provides for the transfer of the regulation of consumer protection of financial services from the Consumer Rights Act of Ukraine, which does not take into account the financial specification, to the Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets Act of Ukraine, as well as the introduction of clear disclosure requirements by financial institutions, the provision of information and advertising services to consumers and the responsibility of financial institutions and their officials for violating the rights of consumers of financial services. Grant authorities that regulate public markets for financial services, rights and powers to carry out the task of protecting the rights of consumers of financial services, as well as the right to impose sanctions on those responsible for violating such rights. The bill was drafted by 81 Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, almost, the vast majority, 63, accounted for in substance 3, accounted for in part 3, rejected 12. A working group was involved in the drafting of the bill for second reading, including representatives of all financial services markets, Nazfinservices, the National Bank, and experts from international institutions. The second reading was followed by such refinements. The possibility of electronic documenting between the creditor and the consumer by consent is introduced and the arrangements for entering into a financial service agreement in the order of accession are regulated. The detailed order of the creditors, the consumer of pre-contractual information and the procedure for making changes to the terms of the contract. Can I keep going a little longer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u127	Clarified formulation of the reason for imposing fines on the financial institution and its officials. The drafting of the bill is in line with the drafting of the Consumer Credit Act, 2455, which we have just considered. The bill is initiated by the General Legal Authority. The comments are of an exclusively general nature. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of consumers' rights to financial services, to adopt a second reading and in general. We can go to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, only 12 rights were rejected, and all others were taken into account. And we're going to the right. 7th, Levenchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u129	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. You know, at this time, when we're rolling to the right and to the left of banks, when they're virtually fictitious banks, which are just linings, when there's no proper control from the state, and there's no predictability in the near future, it's very important to be able to file collective lawsuits in the interests of an undetermined circle of people. And this is exactly my amendment to make appropriate changes to the Civil Procedure Code and to institute a lawsuit in the interests of an undetermined circle of individuals or collective actions. This process of procedural cooperation is aimed at uniting the uniform requirements of a large group of persons with legal consequences for them into single conduct. The appellant represents the interests of a numerical group of persons who are not party to the case but have uniform requirements. And this is very important in terms of protecting the interests of bank investors. For example, if a bank gives knownly some wrong advertising, unreliable advertising, investors may, perhaps, present investors to a certain applicant, to all investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u130	Please comment. I beg your pardon, give 10 seconds to Lechchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u131	Without this ability, it is extremely difficult to protect the rights of all investors of the relevant financial institutions as a single body. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u132	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u133	There was a very good point, and I support the author of the amendment. But unfortunately, this law does not regulate this norm that the author proposes. And I think he needs to pass this rule in another bill, or maybe even register a separate bill. I know this problem. And by the way, there are these group lawsuits, there are these examples, there are even decisions about them. Sadly, though, in the first reading, we did not appeal to the changes in the Civil Code in this particular article. That's why we couldn't account for what you did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u134	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment number seven of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:31:15]] For-129 The decision is not made. 12th, Spinov. Don't insist. 25th, Dovbanko. Don't insist. 26th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 35th, Yvchenka. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 35 revisions. Yvchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u135	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this law is making the conditions for informing customers about the financial services worse. The other one. The responsibility of finustina is reduced from 200 or 500 untaxed minimum citizens’ income to 50. The legal responsibility of the finustina has disappeared for increasing unilaterally the fixed interest rate or other payments provided for by the financial services agreement, or for failing to notify the consumer of the time limit and for changing the revised interest rate. I propose an amendment to support, and the law to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u136	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 35 of the national MP Yvchenka. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote, colleagues, please. [[13:32:48]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 45th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please. 45, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u137	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that this bill complements article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets with the rules that give the authorities that regulate public financial services markets a list of powers to carry out the task of protecting consumers' rights to financial services. And this is actually going to lead to, in fact, formal or fictitious, rather than unbiased, universal control by regulators of the financial services market, control over what consumers' rights are actually doing. the rights of consumers. The point is that the structures that coordinate the activities of financial institutions are persons of interest. They cooperate directly with financial institutions, and they are not likely to protect the rights of consumers. That's why my law applies to replacing this position so that control on consumer protection of financial services is exercised by an independent body, namely a central executive body. an executive body that implements public policy in the field of State control over compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u138	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u139	It is the central executive body that implements public policy in the field of State control over the enforcement of consumer rights legislation. So it's the same body that protects consumers from checking in this context.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u140	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 45th National Deputy Levchenk, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please. [[13:34:45.]] For 101 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote on the decision-making process in three minutes. I'm asking you to invite me to the Hall, and the Supreme Council Secretariat, and the factions' heads to invite MPs to the Hall. 46th, Dovbenko. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 49th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 60th, Demchak. Don't insist. 72nd, Spinov. Don't insist. And the last amendment is 77 Doubenko. Don't insist, colleagues. We finished the discussion. I ask the MPs not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. I'm giving another minute to the committee representative. Please, one minute. And I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall. Mr. Ruslan, please give me one minute's closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the bill greatly improves the rights of consumers of financial services. I can see that some questions have arisen. I think they needed to be settled in the process of discussing this bill. In fact, this bill is related to the previous one, and it regulates those normative acts that are in contact with the Consumer Credit Act. These are primarily changes to the Nazfinservices Act, the provision of financial services. It is long-awaited and developed in close cooperation with European financial structures. They were consultants. So I ask for your support, and these two bills, they're going to create a legal field to protect the rights of consumers of financial services. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services (number 2456-d). A great deal of work has been done to prepare this bill. And he takes the committee's second reading and generally, colleagues. Please vote and please support 2456-d. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:37:27]] For 206 206 for. Please, colleagues. The bill was not voted by the Fatherland faction - 0, "Radical Party" - 0. Colleagues, I hear a proposal, a second reading again. I hear this offer. Let's give the two factions that didn't vote no objection if I give the Radical Party, the Fatherland, so we can make some decisions that we didn't vote on? Then please, Yvchenko - one minute, Easy - one minute. And Berezuk is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u143	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill is called "To Improve the Protection of Consumer Financial Services". These are the people who get consumer loans, the people who are going out on Maidan today, the people who are being cheated on by banks all the time. Well, you and I are subtracting the bank's liability from 500 or 200 untaxed minimums 10 times. And then what we do is we take down the responsibility for changing the terms of the contract and for changing the interest rate at the time of the loan. Well, let's be honest, if we're working for people, let's read the laws and not miss. Let's work it out, we're in. Because there are some things that things, which things, as well as needed today. But from the past law, we have even removed written consent, i.e. changes to the terms of the contract by written agreement with the recipient of the loan. Colleagues, I suggest you take the second one again. And let's not let this happen in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u144	Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u145	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the draft for the second reading of the bill is much worse than the one that was adopted in the first reading. Because the parts of the rights that are considered actually worsen the terms of customer financing, financial services information, and consumer status. I have a question: who are we supposed to protect from banks or consumers of financial services? The Radical Party protects consumers of financial services, but at the same time we are in favour of the stable functioning of the banking system. And one of the elements of this steady work is the resignation of the head of the National Bank of Honduras and the acceptance of our changes to the Constitution, which entails the responsibility of the National Bank -- cheap interest rates on loans, employment of Ukrainians. So we propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u146	Will the second reading be supported by you? Another one? And the last performance is Lavrick. And I'm going to make the next proposal. Please, one minute. National MP Lavrick, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u147	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Self - help has always stood up for consumers of financial services and not just financial services. This law needs a market and this law is needed by consumers. Now there's one point in the room that everybody's talking about, reducing the liability of financial institutions from 500 untaxed minimums to 50. I propose that we go back to this right, find consensus in this room, raise the level of responsibility from 50 to 500, and vote on this law today, so that we don't go through this one rule, which right now is not regulated by the second reading, so that this rule goes through today, and we adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to the committee's representative, attention, attention to everyone, he will be the subject of a transcript. If this is going to be a will, I'm going to put it, if not, re-read it. Please, one minute, Ruslan Demczak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, this bill is really related to the previous bill that we passed. If we're saying that we're consumers of financial services now, if we don't adopt this bill, it's stopping the introduction of consumer protection standards for financial services. So if there were comments about the reduction in the fine, although I don't think that's problematic, because in this case there are stronger rules that make the positions that don't meet this consumer credit contract law more valuable than the fines. I'm ready to change the text of the document under the transcript now, so we can change where there's a reduction of fines to 50 untaxed minimums to 500. And we're going to do technical legal remedies on the committee throughout the text where there's fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u150	Please be clear about the transcript, Mr. Ruslan, and announce the amendment as it will sound, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u151	Change the fines for financial institutions from 50 minimum non-taxable minimums to 500 minimum taxed minimums, in the first reading edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see, Mr. Ruslan, that this proposal still finds no support among the factions. That's why I'm betting. No, the discussion has already taken place. I'm proposing a second reading again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting to the vote the second reading again, do you support this proposal or not? You're capable of listening to someone but yourself, aren't you? They're capable. So if you're able to listen to someone other than yourself, you'll hear what I'm saying. I am now voting on the proposal to re-read. That was your offer. I'm a little tired. We really need to be self-sustaining in the hall, so that we can hear each other carefully. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal: re-reading the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving consumer rights of financial services (2456-d). Another second reading, everyone promised to support it so we wouldn't lose the bill. Please vote, please support. Please re-read the second reading, please. Please vote. Please. [[13:44:47]] For 259. Decision taken. Colleagues, we still have two laws of first reading from the financial pool. And I'm asking everyone to stay put. I'm looking at the next draft of the law, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the promotion of lending in Ukraine) (number 4529). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:45:28]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u153	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Two words of the previous bill, just an example of political overexamination, they hurt, honestly. Guys, let's move on to the next one, it's over. Your opinion is proposed for a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for stimulating lending) (number 4529). The adoption of the bill is aimed at lowering the cost of credit resources and thus facilitating the access of owners and individuals to the use of banking products. The other one. Providing solutions to problematic issues that create systemic obstacles to restoring credit to the national economy and generate additional risks to national and foreign investors. Third. Contributing more loyal bank demands to potential lenders. The bill is a continuation of the harmonization of national and international legislation within the framework set out in the memorandum on economic and financial policy with IMF. Its adoption will therefore contribute to the implementation of an integrated financial sector development programme by 2020, approved by the National Reform Board and the Ukrainian Reform Legislative Plan adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes these provisions by amending a series of laws. First, the representative is entitled to receive an electronic payment. a means of payment based on confidence that is certified in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. The requirement for notarial certification of a contract for a vehicle is excluded. It is possible to protect the rights of the mortgage holder in the case of a self-constructed building for a transferred mortgage. The creditor's right to accept the debtor's unsold assets on balance sheet accounts. However, if the creditor does not exercise his right, the mortgage will remain in effect until the debt is fully repaid by the debtor. Please continue for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u154	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u155	The actions of the local self - government authority and the creditor are clearly defined in the case of recognition of an inheritance. A message is being set. that the message is terminated by the complete execution of the principal obligation, or if the creditor has not submitted a complaint to the sponsor during the total total limitation period. A warning is provided that the owner’s consent to the transfer of information on potential lenders contained in the State Civil Registry is required. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking supported the bill. And please accept this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u156	We heard the committee's position. Dear colleagues, there is no co-rapporteur under this bill, so now, Mr. Ruslane, you can go to your place of work. And as part of the bill's discussion, there's a two-in-pro, two-in front of the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. Please give the leader a word from the Radical Party. Please, Oleg Lazko. Please turn on Oleg Lakota's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am now addressing the President of Ukraine and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Today, with regard to our political colleague, Hero of Ukraine, Yuri Sukhevich, an attempt was made at cynical provocation. Then we got a message from reliable sources that Yuri Shuhevich's life is in danger that our colleague could be killed to use to destabilize -- this is murder -- a situation in Ukraine to implement the Moscow plan, to undermine Ukraine from the inside. Yurya Suhevič's enemies want to use Ukraine's enemies as a sacral sacrifice, as was the case with the murder of Georgia Gongadze. I am now officially addressing the President and the Head of the Bureau. Our colleague Yuri Shuhevich is in danger, his life, and his health. I beg you, I demand that Yuri Shuhevich be provided with national protection, once. Second, I appeal to Mr. Yuri Shuhevich to be cautious, less visible now, at least next week, two in public places, without the utmost need for your life and your health to be safe. I want to address all Ukrainian citizens. Moscow's enemy is a fraud. The Moscow enemy is capable of any provocation to tear Ukraine apart from the inside and murder of political prisoner Sukhevic, one of the elements of this plan. I ask the Ukrainian authorities not to allow the murder of my colleague Yuri Suhevich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u158	Please, Roman Semenha. Are you going to be out of town, Mr. Romane, or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Oleg Lavrik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u160	Please, Mr. Lavrick, I understand. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u161	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help. I realize that it's hard to discuss drafts after such a statement, but at the same time our bill started to be discussed, so I'm going to continue it. The standards of the bill were already in this room six months ago and unfortunately he was first read, he passed the committee's work. He was then, he was under number 2286a, but unfortunately, because of you and me, colleagues, he was disciplined on Wednesday on second reading and for lack of votes of deputies in the room this bill did not get the required number of votes. The time has passed, but nothing has changed the standards that are in this bill, in fact, they haven't solved the situation in the country. To this day, the issue of loans for a dead inheritance, a mortgage, has not been settled. To this day, the rights of creditors on credit obligations are not regulated. To this day, the question of the self - building of the objects that have been placed under siege has not been settled. So I'd like to ask the board to consolidate so that we can get through the first reading very quickly, to vote. And we're going to go through those revisions that we can get to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u162	Thank you. You've got the position of your faction. Please, from the Olena Shkrum Motherland faction. Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u164	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u165	I'm surprised at the self-help position. What I'm saying is that the "Fatherland" faction emphasizes that this bill is a project developed by the banking lobby. It narrows down the rights of borrowers and unjustifiably expands the rights of creditor banks. The project runs counter to at least four EU directives: 48th, 17th, 13th and 22nd. Listen, in this project, it's a show. is the right to allow mortgage banks to apply to self-constructive buildings that are not even registered in the register of immovable property rights. It does not take into account that such unregistered real estate is not an object of civil rights. The bill, 4529, contradicts the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on Association and is to be rejected. I would like to point out that GNEU is also proposing to send this bill to the bank lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u166	The word is given from the “Prashenka Block” by Solovia Yuri Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u168	Good afternoon. Paul Rizanenko, a member of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking This bill is the second time in the Supreme Council, and it was developed not only by a committee, although it was submitted by most committee members, but it was developed by all markets. We know where we are today. And what they complain about, including entrepreneurs, businesses, is lack of credit or banks don't lend. And of course, there are many reasons for that, but one of the main reasons is actually rights, including creditors. This is not a specificity of Ukraine, but you can open any financial manual and see that there is a protection of creditors from unscrupulous borrowers. It's a mortgage, it's the terms of a credit agreement and disclosure. The bill proposes to settle certain points regarding the possibility of withdrawal. This, as mentioned, includes unfinished construction. But what I'm going to say is that the unfinished construction on the ground, which is passed on to us when we're told that unfinished construction is not a subject of relationship, I'm going to remind you that we're making unfinished construction in the NAZK declaration. It is also possible to facilitate the transfer of movable property such as cars. Similarly, for example, this bill provides for automatic information by consent of the lender of a civil status act that allows for the establishment of a state: a married person, not married, who is a perpetrator in the event of death and so on, and so forth. So I urge you to support this bill. It is important for the economy of Ukraine in order to simplify the ability to obtain credit resources by business.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all factions have spoken out. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. And I want to emphasize, we're delegationing the committee the right to form its day-to-day unit with the hope of working with factions, and the bills have support in the hall. I'm counting on this first-reading bill to be supported. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Because the discussion is over. I was talking. So, dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to encourage lending in Ukraine (number 4529). The committee proposes and requests that it be accepted on the basis that all amendments can be made to the second reading. Who supports the committee's proposal to vote on the basis, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote on the basis. [[13:58:50]] For a hundred and Next suggestion: To be sent to the committee for re-reading. Could this offer be supported in the hall? Please, then, let me concentrate. I'm proposing to send a draft of Law 4529 to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support us so we don't lose the bill. Please, colleagues, to the committee for further work, please vote. [[13:59:32]] For 217 Next: Return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, colleagues. Let's support both the committee and the author, this is the third next proposal, the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. If we don't vote, it's just going to be rejected. And so I'm asking everyone to focus, to go into the hall, to take jobs. And I'm putting a third motion for a vote: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft Law 4529. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[14:00:21]] For 217 This proposal did not come up with an offer either. I didn't get the required number of votes. And the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, second hour. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. I very much ask everyone to be in the workplace at 4: 00 p.m. to continue our work. Thank you.
