ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. My colleagues, may I have your registration? Everyone in the hall? So, dear fellow national MPs, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[10:05:15]] 362 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. So, honourable colleagues, today, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we're going through a block of culture, science and education. And here we have a big block of bills. But at the same time, I want you to know that today we have to consider changes to the budget of Ukraine for this year. I would also like to point out that budget changes do not require a vote to be put into the agenda. So we've agreed that at 11 o'clock, as the bill goes, we're going to go over the changes to the budget this year. There's funding for the army, the IMF, the Security Service. And I'm sure that the whole room will be the only one on this issue, and we'll support both the Prime Minister and support the government, and we'll support our army on the front. Now we're going to start with the first questions that stand in order of the day, and then we're going to go over the budget and go back to our cluster of questions. Dear colleagues, we're moving now. Now we're going to the first draft of the law that we're looking at, this is the draft of the Act amending section II, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine, on amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the public administration system in the book publishing sector. This is the draft Law 4726. And, dear fellows, I'm going to ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Indeed, we have a very full day’s schedule. If we go into the hourly review of the full procedure, we can fail to perform the tasks that are before us today. And so I ask everyone to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Do you have a deal? Can you hold it? So, colleagues, you're going to support the short-term? I'm asking you to support discussion 4726 on a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please vote, please support. Please. [[10:08:12]] For 131 We didn't make it, I see. All right, guys, I'm gonna do it again. Mrs. Olya, the deputies are still good. The MPs are fine, we'll wait. Mrs. Ola! Ola the Mantis! Ola the Mantis! Colleagues, we'll wait another 30 seconds until the MPs arrive. Meanwhile, Ola the Mantis has a very important message to make. As long as the MPs come along, and then I'll put it back on. Turn on Oli the Mantis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, today the whole world is marked by the Day of Hearts. On this day, I want to remind all of you that human health is not just a doctor's responsibility, and that there are more than 20 million cardiovascular patients in Ukraine today, that the mortality from heart attacks and strokes is our highest priority, and every year we lose over 400,000 people to these diseases. What can be done not to die, what are the risk factors. This is clearly hypertension and high blood pressure. So I'm now asking you to step out of the session room during the break, our leading cardiologists came here today to measure your arterial pressure so you can be healthy and to set an example for millions of Ukrainians who will measure the pressure that will take special treatment to control the arterial pressure. And all of you would like to wish for our smokers to smoke fewer cigarettes today, those who abuse coffee, drink less coffee, remember that cholesterol levels, and these are animal fats, these are fat products, they increase the risk of death from cardiovascular diseases. And I'm now addressing all Ukrainian citizens, please remember that the level of cardiovascular disease depends primarily on the way of life, and that Ukrainian doctors, leading institutions, our cardiologists are ready to treat you today. And I'm also going to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister's request not to deprive the Academy of Medical Sciences of funding, our professional institutions, the Institute of Cardiology, the Institute of Hearts, the Institute of Cancer, the Institute of Pulmonology, and the Ministry of Health with a requirement, to set up funding for these institutions, and to put funding into the budget for the development of emergency health care. Because without Speedy being able to get to the challenge at the right time, it's impossible to save a man. Once again, today's World Heart Day, please come out, and right in front of the session hall, where you place your signatures, you are awaited by leading Ukrainian cardiologists to give you the necessary advice and measure the pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u3	Thank you. But you have to go out and measure the pressure during the break, your colleague, during the break. We are now preparing for the vote. And I'm once again putting to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure, and I strongly ask all my colleagues to support this proposal. So I'm proposing a simplified procedure for draft Law 4726. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:12:05]] For 158. Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And we're moving on to the question, and I invite you to report to the deputy minister of culture Karandiev Rostislav Volodymyrovich from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u4	Honourable Head, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, was passed earlier this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Act of Ukraine "To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of the system of state administration in the book publishing sector. This law provided for the creation of organizational, administrative and cultural conditions to transform domestic publishing into a cultural industry of the European model, the creation of a single book market in the country, the provision of a country book, the free access of Ukrainian citizens to all spheres of modern knowledge. The restoration of a culture of reading through the conduct of a new state institution, the Ukrainian Institute of Books. The above Law took effect from the day of its publication, except for chapter I, paragraphs 3 and 4, which take effect on 1 January of the year following the year of the creation of the Ukrainian Book Institute. However, it is paragraph 3 of the Act that contains the norms that introduce the concept of the "Ukrainian Book Institute", that define the mechanism of institution creation, the purpose of its activities and the financial security system. The Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has drafted a bill to amend section III, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the System of Public Administration in the Bookstore, proposing a standard whereby the law will take effect from the day following its publication to the fullest extent. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Mikola Knieżick. Mr. Mikola will present this bill from the scene, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This is a very simple bill that will allow us to contribute to the work of the Ukrainian Institute of Books this year, which, thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Culture, has already been organized and has begun its fruitful work. It's completely technical, it just puts into some of the points that have been taught that they're going into action next year, it's going to carry on this year. Our committee is asking to support this bill on the basis and in general, to support the Ukrainian book and the Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. We are going to discuss this bill, and according to the Rules we now have two deputies -- "for", two deputies -- "against" factions that can be signed up for discussion. Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss the bill. The word is given to the representative of the Fatherland faction of Mr. Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Yuri Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u9	Please, Mr. Odarchenk, have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The bill should be adopted immediately and in general. It's completely technical. But it is worth noting that the need for such laws arises precisely because of the extremely low quality of legal work. What are you talking about? The Supreme Council passed a law providing for the creation of the Ukrainian Book Institute. But Transitional Positions says that the standards for creating this institution come into force after the institution is created, so we have a chicken and an egg. The institution must be created on the basis of a law that will enter into force. Of course, the Chief Expert Office warned of this flaw, but it was not removed in the hall because projects are being adopted quickly. I want to point out here right now that we have very often comparable tables to second readings distributed on the day of the consideration of drafts. You can read dozens, hundreds of pages of text in half an hour is just not realistic, you can't always relate to the committee that changed it. So that there are no more such errors, I propose that the comparative tables be given within the time limit set by the Rules, so that it is time for us to get acquainted with what we are voting for. We need to uphold this law and vote for it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, Andry Lozový. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u12	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. This is clear to all that without the Ukrainian book, the Ukrainian State will not develop. The one who does not do book publishing then has to rephrase the classics, engage in prisons, armies, and so forth. Go to any bookstore and look, take the book of Ukrainian production and see what the circulation is: 1,000 copies, 2,000. They're popular writers, they're those who sell, who's interested, who's famous. And yet pitifully small. So we can see that Ukrainian book publishing is in an absolutely pitiful state. And that's because there are people like Alexander Krasowitz, who are investing in this soul, and they're getting really good at reading. There were a lot of colleagues here, like me, and the Head of the Supreme Council, including, in the Lviv Publishing Forum, and they saw that it was impossible to get through, so many people. To the Ukrainians, we want to read, but unfortunately, publishing has no support from the State, including from Parliament. And so, no doubt, we should support any initiative to support the Ukrainian book. But I would like to ask Mr. Karandyev as a representative of the government and Mr. Knieżick as the head of the profiling committee to ask a very important question, a very important one. What is the point of this law of serious booksellers? Because I'm with some. I know from them that without serious investment, this business is very small. People who have money and invest it not in the areas of commerce, where they can make money quickly, but in a book where it is objectively difficult to earn, what is their position on the law? These people have to have maximum support, we need lobbyism, in a good way, about the Ukrainian Bookstore. Remember, it was 10 years ago, as it is today, how Ukrainian publishing is developing, and so on, but they really need our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Irina Podowak gives the word. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I address all of you. Please support this bill, because it is indeed a technical bill that allows us to initiate and start the Ukrainian Institute of Books to work for the support of both publishers and translators and writers. And this institution should be operational as early as 2016. The Ministry of Culture has made an effort to do so. In preparing such important system bills, of course, there are technical errors, and we are now correcting them. So I propose that we all unanimously support the bill. And I'd like to address you all the same, dear colleagues. We should not only remember the support of a book study in Ukraine when we create some institutions but, above all, when we consider the budget for 2016 and for 2017. Then we need our support. Please support this bill. And I would also like to support, please, the next draft, which is technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. So in the speeches of the head of the committee of profile, as well as the deputies who participated in the discussion, there was a position that this bill was purely technical, that it did not need a second reading, needed no change, and there was a proposal to accept it in general. I'm putting this proposal to the vote right now, and I'm asking you to support the room. The bill No. 4726, the draft Act on Amendments to Section II, paragraph 1, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the System of State Administration in the Bookstore, is therefore put to the vote, as a whole, according to the proposal of the committee head and all those who took part in the discussion. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:22:10]] For 214
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I see they haven't made it. But I can see how inspired the MPs were running into their workplaces because everyone is supporting the bill. So I'm asking everyone to come in, take jobs. Please invite the National Deputies to come into the Hall. Heads of factions, please mobilize the deputies. Colleagues, we're going to vote for the return, and then I'm going to put it to the vote again. And I call everyone to discipline, to support. So, colleagues, I'm putting the first vote back to 4726. I would like to support the proposal to return to draft Law 4726. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote back to 4726. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:23:32]] For 240 We're back. Decision taken. And now I'm re-voting the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of the system of government in the book publishing sector (4726) at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, please. [[10:24:15.]] For the 250. The law is passed. Let us move on to the next draft of the Law. This is a draft Act amending the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of contractual forms of work in the field of culture and the competitive procedure for the appointment of heads of state and municipal cultural institutions (4679). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. For the shorter procedure, please. [[10:25:02]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy by Irina Igorovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I ask your support, please, in a practical way, as we call it, a technical bill. In the drafting and printing of this bill, there was actually one technical-reduction error. Throughout the text of the Act, the concept of "conclusion of the treaty" comes to an end when the timeless agreements are terminated. There's only one place where there's a word or the notion of "break up a contract of employment." We're in this bill, and we're asking you to correct this inaccuracies, an editorial error that has actually been made. Because if this is not settled, court-martials may arise when dealing with cases involving termination of contracts. This bill and this settlement are actually awaited by cultural institutions. One more thing. At the request of the Ministry of Culture, we are in this bill, which we are currently considering, referring to article 36, paragraph 9, of the Labour Code when it comes to determining the reasons for the termination of an uninterrupted employment contract. Such a change would allow and contribute to the principle of legal certainty. So please support this bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u19	Thank you. We had yesterday a meeting of our committee with the Minister of Culture and representatives of the central executive bodies that are part of the Ministry of Culture. And we have celebrated the great work done by the Ministry of Culture to reform the sector. It seems to us that the creation of the institution of a book that is currently active and the transition to contractual form and the proposals of the Ministry of Culture to create an institution of theatres, museums, to support and reform work with cultural heritage will bring a revolution into our cultural sphere, which means, into our daily lives. This work with the Ministry really lasts over every word. Yeah, it's a one-word bill. But it's very important. Because this bill has helped us to really inhale young forces and give young Ukrainian artists, composers, directors the opportunity to lead new artistic, museum, creative groups. We very much ask you to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u20	Thank you, colleagues. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Barna. Turn on the microphone, please. Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u21	Good afternoon! Colleagues, the bill needs to be voted on. Clarification. The employment of cultural workers should be carried out. Thus, it is possible for communities to directly influence the assignment and to ask accordingly for cultural work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Hostile Roman, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! The People's Front will fully support the bill and I urge you all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u24	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please move on to the decision-making process. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the introduction of contractual forms of work in the field of culture and the competitive procedure for the appointment of heads of state and municipal cultural institutions. Please vote, please support. There's full support in the room, and I'm asking you to vote on the basis of 4679 as a whole. Please vote. [[10:29:59]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next draft of the law. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the use of media products by the aggressor State (number 4303). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please use the reduced procedure [[10:30:37]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, it's an unforgivable bill, it's worldview. If we accept this bill, we actually recognize that we have a right with an aggressor who is leading a hybrid war against us, and that we are prepared to defend ourselves against this hybrid war. We have done a lot to protect this, and this has produced a very good result. We banned the Russian series, instead of supporting the Ukrainian producer, we supported the Ukrainian book, but unfortunately we didn't support Ukrainian music, we didn't support the Ukrainian theater. This law, which contains some conflicting standards, raises questions for many. Why, for example, did an actor who was opposed to Ukraine’s territorial integrity yesterday call for the support of separatists in the east, today in order to speak with us, have to make a commitment and announce that he supports Ukraine’s territorial integrity? If that happens, people will think about how to act toward our nation. We make ourselves respect each other. What is this law about? It imposes restrictions on the execution of gastro-fuel measures related to the aggressor State; it imposes additional conditions on the issuance of travel certificates for the participation of natural residents of the aggressor State; it sets out additional restrictions on the broadcasting of musical works for the first time since 1 January 2014 for the participation of persons associated with the aggressor State, as well as restrictions on the retransmission of programmes that fall within the jurisdiction of the aggressor State. I mean, we're proposing the law that was passed in the first reading. If someone is concerned about some aspects of this law, we will be able to discuss them further while working on the committee. But understand the concern and pain of Ukrainian actors and artists who are unable to perform, for example, at the Yellow Palace, where we did not create the Maidan Museum, but where Russian anteprises are performed with actors who are calling for the collapse of our territorial integrity. We need to be consistent in our position. If we do that, we have a good chance of reinvigorating a great Ukrainian culture, of saving a great Ukrainian culture from that colonial yoke of the Valyev decrees and other prohibitions that for centuries limited our development. Hundreds and thousands of people, Ukrainians will now look at us and how we vote. Of course, there are certain points that are contradictory. Once again, on second reading, we'll fix everything. But if we protect Ukrainian theater and Ukrainian music, future generations and our children thank us. I urge you to vote on this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u27	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u28	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. I fully support the adoption of this bill and support the cessation of activities in the territory of the Russian propaganda Ukraine. But I'd like to ask all of us to reconsider. We have an aggressor country, we have action on the information blockade of the aggressors, we have participants in the fighting, but there is no war. So we have this aggressor country that we're fighting, this ATO, this is a very big paradox. This law directly recognizes that we are at war with the Russian Federation, that we have no terrorists, is a state that has attacked us and seized part of the territory that we are sanctioning. Secondly, I would like to make some specific clarifications about television channels before the second reading. I would like to rule out restrictions or the need to obtain additional licences, channels that are only translated into Russian in the Russian Federation. But all transmissions are made in the United States or in the European Union. For example, this is the Discovery Channel, National Geographic, Sony Sai-Fi, these channels don't have representation in Ukraine, they have a study in the Russian Federation, where they're exclusively translated into Russian. We simply have no right to deprive our citizens of access to American or European newscasts because in Ukraine we do not produce this content. When we have the power to translate these translations into English, we will consider this. But I would like us to make adjustments to the second reading and vote. Therefore, this project needs to be voted on as a basis, and its preparation for the second reading has to be cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Happy Natalia Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u31	Despotic regimes use any tool to occupy not only the territories, but the most important thing to occupy heads. Art, unfortunately too, becomes a tool of oppressive regimes, too, the so-called mass art that overwhelms the head, which engulfs emotions, unfortunately. We are a nation that today defends itself from aggression in a variety of ways, including people’s lives. That's why this state has to take care of the heads of people who are alive and put any obstacles, even if they're causing some resistance, and remember that it's war. War. In war, the barrier against head possession must also be a huge defense tool. But if we want to study art, let's study art. And all the deputies of the Supreme Council go to the art museum of Harkov, which is empty, and see the art of the famous Ukrainian artist Elijah Ripin, and the original painting "The Cossacks Write a geopolitical letter to the Turkish Sultan." This is a real art of knowledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Red Olga Valerievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u33	Honorable fellow workers!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill is not about patriotism, this bill is not about banning the media production of the aggressor state in Ukraine. This bill on how to put Boris Grebenszczykov and Andrija Makarievich in Russian prison. I want to quote you one of the provisions of this law. In order for any actor to take a gastroline action, this actor must "make a written statement to the organizers by the aggressor State to condemn the occupation of Ukraine." So anyone has to condemn Putin to sing in Ukraine. I want to remind you that in Russia, similar things are like extremism. That means that any actor who supports Ukraine, when we get back to Russia, we'll provide "or into a cell and friends in a strip." Do we want Russian singers who support Ukraine to end up in Russian prison? Why, please tell them, do we wish them harm? Next. It's the same from the movie. The movie won't get a driving testimonial if any of the participants in this movie are there. It comes from an aggressor state. Say, please, what does "anyone" mean? And if a video engineer is in a titre, which of the aggressor countries should also write a statement that he condemns? And if this film, for example, is Hollywood, what, are we not going to give such a film a rolling witness? And lastly, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I want to address you. This bill contains the last ten pages that are not relevant at all to the subject of the Committee's knowledge, which puts it, this law, to the vote. These are changes to the Television and Radio Act that have not been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u36	These changes did not go through the expertise of our committee. We called on the Supreme Council's apparatus to have all the changes to the television laws that apply to the subject of our committee's knowledge go through our expertise. This bill did not go through our committee. I definitely do not want such manipulative things to happen. If the law is amended as to what does not apply to this law at all, it is manipulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatolovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u38	Hello! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Now on the floor, we are collecting signatures to ban Russian actors from entering Crimea and then going to Odessa, Kramatorsk. By choosing these cities by accident, to gather people there, for whom the Ukrainian position is not yet defined. In the hall they collect signatures against the entry of our former Ukrainian citizen, who is given the largest hall in Ukraine – the Palace "Ukraine" for gastropods, realizing that its gastropods will cause pain and resistance to volunteers and Ukrainian patriotic forces. Thus, we provoke our patriotic youth into opposition. We have no right to do that. I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading, because it's really very important for our culture, so that we can preserve our statehood. I remind you that our country is called Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u39	Heroic glory! Please, one minute, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u40	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, when it was said from the rostrum, "Well, we're going to be visited by conscious Russian artists -- and they're going to have to publicly say they're against the annexation of Ukrainian territories, against Russian aggression." You know, if they can't do that, they have nothing to do here in Ukraine. Why do they have to come here? Let them sit in Russia. We don't need artists. You know, the main thing is, you know, this is because of this neutrality, so-called no one hides: you're either on the side of good or you're on the side of evil. You know how they say that in hell the hottest places will be for those who have maintained neutrality in difficult times. So we don't have to hide behind it. Let us protect our national space of information, protect our country, have national honor, and dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u41	Please, Irina. Please, Mikola Knieżicki, one minute. Then he is the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Heratchenko. And then we go to the vote. Two minutes, colleagues. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u42	Dear colleagues spoke from the rostrum about certain inaccuracies that did not meet the law. Those Russian actors who, at least once in the press, supported Ukraine's territorial integrity, as is the case with Andrija Makarievich, as is the case with Leah Ahedjakova, and the few two or three Russian patriots who stayed there, that's not the law. This is a direct exception to the law. So any insinuation that applies to them is a pure lie of the pro-Russian forces. Similarly, the Freedom of Speech Committee considered the bill. He did not support it, but he considered it at his meeting in accordance with the Rules. Thank you. Please support this law with both mind and heart and with the thought of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u43	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. Everyone, please come into the hall. And I give the word to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, you can understand that we already have all the issues in Ukrainian culture solved, and so we put in a meeting room such controversial laws. First of all, I would like to thank those Ukrainian actors who refused to participate in the Russian series because they have a position. No one forbade them to participate in them, but that is the position. And so thank those Ukrainian citizens who refused to watch those Russian shows and go to the shows of those Russian actors who are taking the anti-Ukrainian stand because that is the position. And we don't have prohibitions, we have other absolutely mechanisms to support patriotism. Only despotic states are prohibited, and Ukraine is a democratic state. And I think when we look at these kinds of bills, we should listen to the industry. We have very, you know, professionals gathered here in all spheres, but there's actually the position of the Nacradia of Ukraine, and to Nacradia we chose patriotic and worthy representatives with you. The same is true of the Ukrainian television channels, which represent, by the way, journalists, who are reporting our work with you on the stand today. And they think that this bill violates the human rights of the Ukrainian viewer. He's violating human rights, and we can't, as a legal state, adopt laws, conforming to Russia, which prohibits, you know, everything in the world: adoption of sick children. and now closes the Ukrainian library. Yes, Ukraine is not Russia! Not because of the bans, but because of the upbringing of patriotism, because of other absolutely different things. And I'm very sorry that the committee that has to take care of cultural issues and connect the country is trying to break up the session hall today. I encourage you to deal with Ukrainian culture, support Ukrainian viewers, Ukrainian actors, not break up the session hall. And of course, I want to talk to the Ukrainians. Let's not get banned, because of the stupid laws, we're going to show it, but we're just going to stop going to concerts of those people who actually represent Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the use of the aggressor State media (number 4303) as a basis. Colleagues, based on. Who supports this bill, please vote, please vote, colleagues. [[10:48:16]] For-174 Colleagues, I'll take care of it. If we vote back to the committee for processing, can we support that? We can. Then I'll make the next offer. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the use of media products by the aggressor State (4303) to the committee, to return to the committee for further processing, for re-reading. To read again. Is that supported? Supported. Please re-read 4303, please vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:49:08]] For 205 Colleagues are still the subject of a legislative initiative to rework. Should we? Colleagues, I'm really talking to Igor over there, do you support this offer? Please, Princey, give us some advice. One minute, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u46	Mr. Chairman, what was it like when the High Council's vice-speaker, using what was on the rostrum, without record, outside the rules, has been performing for more than two minutes, aspiring for the pro-Russian position. What was that all about? You can explain what the Rules provide for this, and how can you then participate in the meetings of this Supreme Council?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Attention, colleagues! Attention! I want to tell everyone that there is no recording mechanism in the Head and in the Deputys. And he has the right to take the word as well as the head of the faction on any issue. There is no recording mechanism, colleagues. And that's why I'm giving the floor to the question, colleagues. And to sum up, they're entitled without, under the Rules without writing, because we don't have a record. Colleagues, can you tell me that the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development is supported? But please back me up, colleagues, really back me up. I would like to support the proposal: draft Law 4303, subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[10:51:12]] For the 220. There's a few votes missing, I'll put them on again, but please come in. Four votes missing, colleagues. I ask you to come forward, prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Are you guys ready? Once again, I propose a draft Law 4303. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Please vote. The first return, yes, the first return, colleagues, to this actually supply, actually to this one. Please vote and support the return to this proposal. Please support my colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:52:16]] For 222 Guys, I'll put it back on. Colleagues, come to the hall, Matvienko's not here. I'm betting once again on the return, if I don't, I'm going to declare the law rejected. My colleagues, I'm putting it to the vote again. If there are no votes, I'll reject the bill. If you support the return to the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative, please vote. Please, colleagues, vote on who supports the return to this proposal. Please. [[10:53:00]] For 215 Offer not supported. Draft Law 4303 declared rejected, colleagues. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. Give me a statement and I'll give you a break. We now have a bill amending the Ukrainian Science and Technology Act 4349. But there was a demand for a break from two factions. From the People's Front faction and the Radical Party faction. And agree to replace the demand for a break with a speech. Who's doing the show? Mikola Knieżicki, three minutes' standoff on demand of two factions. Mr. Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much, those with even the fate of honor and conscience, to stop participating in the meetings of this Supreme Council! At least I'll do it! As long as we don't send this bill back to read again, until we show who is speaking against Ukraine against the Ukrainians. Who speculates and lies for the benefit of the lions, the ferrets, the other corrupters, for the benefit of the villains, the oligarchic majority, who has been stealing this country for 25 years, and now is trying because of the popoc, like this Lechchenko here is sitting in the halls, because of villains like Czervakova, who are not coming out of the same country because of Ljovočkina, because of other people who are trying to destroy Ukraine, they are refusing to adopt a normal law that supports the Ukrainian art environment, which has produced a huge number of television casts, which have resulted in a huge number of protests by Irma Witovska, Derjipilski, a collection of many Ukrainian institutions and theatres, and established a culture. Do you still want the Russian people who abuse us to dance in the Yellow Palace on the bones of our ancestors? Why don't you go dance there yourself? I'm not taking part in this circus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Replica – Lechchenko, Replica – Červakova. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u50	So the whole state can see how they're now trying to introduce a corruption scheme into the anti-national front. The man who was with the father of Russian propaganda, Kiselovi, who, along with Sovkovic, fled to Russia, who was involved in the Maydan launch; the man who destroyed the only opposition TV channel in Yanukovich's time, the channel "You," and this man is now talking about protecting national interests! This person is an agent who has been sent here to defend the interests of Ukraine’s enemies. This man.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds - Red. 30 seconds, Chervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank all the halls for the fact that the mind did prevail over the frost during this vote. That's the first one. The other one. I think, and our faction has such a position, this area really needs to be regulated, it's a disgrace that there are Russian influences on the humanities of Ukraine, but when this area is regulated by Ryder laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u53	Guys, I'm sorry. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to calm down! Olya, please sit down. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. Olya, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, colleagues. We finished the discussion. There were performances, I made replicas as it was supposed to be, colleagues. We now have a crucial issue: the budget, the changes to Ukraine's budget, which concerns security issues. I'm afraid we're balancing the hall so we can't support our army, our boys on the front, our border guards and the IMF. And so, colleagues, with your permission, I'm going to move on to this question that I've been asked by 11 o'clock. The Prime Minister is on his way. I think this is a key issue for today. We still have one bill in chapter "First Reading" that doesn't give me any warning as far as I know. Can we look at it and then go to the budget? We can. Let's move on, guys. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine (4349). It's short. And right after that, we're going to go to the budget. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[10:58:47]] For 186 I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I very much hope that educational laws can unite us, for in fact education today is a second front because the front passes in the minds of people, their mentality. So let's unite anyway so that our education and science have a future. Dear colleagues, very brief. The bill was developed by the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Science and Education, in agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which is today represented by the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ms. Lilia Greenevich, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the National Field Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this bill. What questions are being settled. It's a question in the field of science and science and technology, the definition of the concept of "doctor," the refinement of the selection of actual members of the National Academy of Sciences and the heads of scientific institutions, the separate provisions of pension insurance and the payment of the work of scientific workers. We know very well that there is a debate about one, very important, disputed standard for seven minimum salaries for a scientific junior specialist. There's a proposal in this sense to vote in the first reading, after that we'll work out, we'll take this moment that will affect the formation of Ukraine's budget. But the question of definition and the question that the law of Ukraine, which we passed on December 6, 2015, on scientific, scientific and technical activity, should work. So I'm asking you to support this as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u55	Thank you very much, colleagues. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Taras Dmitrovich Kremen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u56	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the amendment of this law, because it is important. I want to support Alexander Spiovakovsky's statement that we really need to support today all the bills that are aimed at reforming the education and science system in Ukraine, because this is where we should start cleaning up our public education institutions, the education system, the Academy of Sciences and support the wonderful intentions that we came to our schools literally a week ago on Teacher's Day. Please support the People's Front faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Suslova gives the word to Victor Pinzenik. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! What issues of this law cause me to worry? The first question is, the law deals with science and technology, and it deals with pension insurance, including. Enough of us to produce a hundred pension laws. The pension law in Ukraine can only be one. It is not possible for every branch law to establish its own specific rules for pension insurance. My first suggestion is to remove these norms from the text of the law. A friend's offer. The law provides for a minimum wage for a scientist at 7 minimum wages, which is 10,000 dollars at today's level. I'd like to inform you that the professor's salary today is less than or equal to four and a half thousand. There can't be such a thing. What, then, should be the professor’s salary? How much is this law worth? I would like to point out that there is now a draft budget for 2017 in Parliament. Are the questions there? No, I'm afraid not. So my second suggestion is to delete the issues that relate to pay and consider them when considering the State Budget Act. Because any law makes sense, if it's financially secured. So I would like to support the first reading by removing two positions that relate to pay and pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u60	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition bloc faction will support this bill in the first reading and explain why. First of all, we must realize today that an untested society, an illiterate society, has no prospect of being. There is no future in the state unless people are convicted. Who teach people, and who help people to rise to the next level? It is undoubtedly those who are educated and those who are involved in scientific work. Now look where we're going. We want to open a visa regime with the European Union. Who's going there first? Someone who thinks he's not getting a decent salary will be on his way. The same scientists, first of all, will go looking for jobs abroad. What can keep them here? The right level of wages, the right level of funding of science as such, the right attitude of the state and state institutions to this profession. The main thing is that we are constantly developing today and every day. We're making changes and additions to science and science and technology today. This, the presiding officer, is a request to you. Stop considering the bills under reduced procedure. Today, 80 percent of all our bills are introduced and supplemented by those bills voted by this Supreme Council in favour of a reduced procedure. What two minutes can we discuss, what is the problem? And then we start making changes and additions. So this button-up in the reduced procedure has its negatives. And today we are going to be looking at more than one law and making changes. Got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it. We'll vote in the first reading, we'll vote in support of science. And the Opposition Block supports all the initiatives that benefit the state and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. During the discussion, however, there was a position that we could vote only on the basis. And that's why I'm going to put it to a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. So I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities (number 4349) to propose a committee on a basis, a colleague. Based on the base. Excuse me, are you ready? Based on 4349. Please vote, please support. [[11:06:53]] For 263 Decision taken. My colleagues, congratulations. And as we agreed, at 11 o'clock we're moving to draft laws that relate to budget changes. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers, arrived in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, welcome! [[Applause]] This is very important when such bills are reported directly by the Prime Minister, and this is a good and positive practice, colleagues. I now ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 (5074) and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 (5217 and 5217-1). I'm asking you to support the proposal: to move on to their consideration now, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:08:18]] For-188. My colleagues obviously didn't get me. I'm betting on the vote so we can move on to these bills right now. It's not a summary procedure, colleagues, you don't understand. We have to vote so that we can now move on to the draft budget. Colleagues, the budget project that aims first of all, I stress, first of all, the allocation of funds to the Ministry of Defence, to the Ministry of Defense, to the Security Service, to the border guards, to the colleagues, to the boys on the front. I ask you to be responsible, not to relax in the hall. This is actually a matter of security and defence. These 80 - percent budget changes relate to security and defence. And that's why, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take a look. I'm going to put it to the vote again. I hope that the vote will be unanimous. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Ready, colleagues? So I'm voting on the proposal to now move to the consideration of draft laws 5074, 5217 -- "On Ukraine's State Budget 2016." Please vote. Please support this proposal. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[11:10:06]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you for your insight. And now, colleagues, we're moving on to their consideration. I'm going to make a proposal -- for short, Vladimir Borisovich? Vladimir Borisovich! Short-term procedure? Make the offer short? Colleagues who support the review of the reduced procedure 5074, please vote. Who supports the reduced procedure, please 5074. Please vote. [[11:10:53]] For 197 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u62	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people! Allow me to propose a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2016. The adoption of the bill is primarily related to the need to allocate additional funding to the security and defence sectors of 7.1 billion dollars. Especially. In particular, the Ministry of Defence -- 3.8 billion dollars, the National Police -- 2 billion dollars, the State Border Service -- about 1 billion and other expenses. The bill, in addition to addressing these urgent issues, suggests that we address some of the other issues that we have discussed with you today. First, this is the implementation of the State Service Act, and for the implementation of this law, we propose to allocate 1.4 billion dollars, of which 1 billion are for district governments, which, you all know, communicate in the districts, need these funds. Secondly, it's financing the support of coal companies -- 420 million dollars to finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u63	Oksana Sergiyevna, I'll kick your ass for a second. Look, we have two bills: 5074 and 5217. Now I'm looking at 5074. You weren't just getting your bearings, Mrs. Oksana, it's no big deal. We're about to move on to the basic law. Now I've got 5074.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u64	5074, distinguished national deputies, I'll be brief. It is also proposed that changes be made to the 16th year State budget for the use of credit to the Government of the Republic of Poland under the terms of the related aid. We propose to make further changes to Appendix 9 and Appendix 3 for receiving and using 100 million euros from the Republic of Poland. These costs will help us greatly improve our transitions across borders and customs between us and Poland. In particular, we propose to channel the loan to Kravutodora – 68 million euros, to the DFS, to the customs service – 25 million euros and to the State Border Service – 7 million euros. In the actual law, all of this credit had to be used on "The Stork." The change is that we want all these transitions to work well, and so once we've checked every transition that's needed, we need roads somewhere, we need to improve the customs points, somewhere we need to help the customs service. That's the agreed position that we're asking you to support. The project will not affect the budget and deficit rates this year, as part of its use and sample is already included in this year. This bill, as soon as we adopt it, the DFS will immediately prepare appropriate investment projects. Thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, now the co-reporter will speak, then from the factions, and then to the reporter, there may be an opportunity to sum it up. Mrs. Tetjana, Mrs. Oksana, please take your place. And for the co-report, I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Sergio Rudik. Please, Mr. Sergei. Sergey Rudik is given the floor. Mr. Ruddick, Mr. Ruddick! Mr. Rudik, do you know what you have to do now? I ask the deputies to keep an eye on the order of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u66	Excuse me, colleagues. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs on September 21st discussed the Government Bill 5074 on Amendments to the State Budget Act. on the use of credit to the Polish government, designed for the proper use of appropriate credit funds. The whole point of the project is very simple: we're down 10 million dollars from the SPF, and we're redistributing it as follows. The State Border Service administration gets 0.7 million dollars, the Kravutodore is 6.8 million dollars, and Minfin gets two and a half million dollars through the DFS. Regarding the bill, it should be noted that the bill is balanced, and its implementation will not lead to an increase in government debt and government budget deficits, as only a redistribution of the expenditure of the General Fund is foreseen without changing the overall volume of State external borrowing. At the same time, the bill makes a mistake that is due to be corrected. That is: in Appendix 3, delete the line together and introduce the necessary technical regulations. It should also be noted that if other bills were to be adopted on changes to the State budget, 5074 bills would need to be clarified in a bill to ensure consistency of law and balance of the state budget. In addition, the committee agreed with Minfin on the initiative of the Kiev City Administration to take into account in the bill a provision for settling the obligations of the Kiev City Council by means of a corresponding addition to article 32 of the law. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the draft bill 5074 was approved: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill of 5074 to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the proposals agreed with Minfin, which are listed in the letter of the Committee to the Supreme Council. The committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, is responsible in the drafting of the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u67	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u68	Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should be subject to the necessary editorial and technical remedies when establishing the relevant law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is now under the terms of this bill. I'm asking you to sign in from factions two for, two against. And we're discussing Bill 5074. So there's no confusion. Please sign up. Please, from the People's Front, National MP Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u70	Please give the word to Bondaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u71	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I will also ask for the support of this bill. The Sokal region is bordering Poland. There are customs crossings, Ugrins, that need to be constructed. There are many roads that need repair along the border. That's why the People's Front will support it. And we invite you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u73	Thank you, colleague. Please, from the Peter Prashenko Block, the national deputy of Sevrukov. National deputy of Sevrukov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u74	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Dmitri Andreyevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone for Dmitri Andreyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 5074, seems to be a technical law, but it helps solve a number of extremely important problems when adopted. Well, first position. We all hear a lot of information about the huge traffic jams on the Polish border, and it's very difficult for cars to cross this border. We're going to be able to redistribute the money to provide new possibilities for setting up the passes. The money will also be directed towards financing the material and technical provision of the State Border Service. The second position is extremely important for the city of Kiev. And I would ask my colleagues to be sure to uphold this law, based on such considerations. The city of Kiev will be able to pay $1.9 billion in government bank loans, a balance sheet, a credit balance for the city of Kiev and for these state banks if the law is adopted in the section "Transitional positions" proposed by the committee. The city will be able to save nearly 1 million dollars a day to service this loan. We will also be able to save almost 300 million dollars in the next year’s budget. Dear colleagues, an extremely important law, provides an opportunity to significantly improve the budget. Please support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the leader of the Self-Help faction, Mr. Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u79	Mrs. Tetya's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Of course, we will support the money involved as credit money to be built up, including the State Fiscal Service, customs, checkpoints, especially as regards the western border, the border with Poland, because it is the money received from Poland as a linked loan. But Ukraine’s problem is not how to engage money, there are many foreign donors who want to help us. The problem is to use them effectively and spend them. This money can lie there for years and not be used because of a large bureaucratic procedure, because corrupters in investment departments and the real estate of the relevant authorities can't determine which projects are financed by this money because the tendering process is constantly broken down, stalled, close firms are set up there, and so on. So, first of all, if we support the redistribution of this money by 25 million euros to the State Fiscal Service, we demand that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance be provided with effective control over the spending of this money. If this is put on the finance minister, we demand that representatives of the committee, the parliamentary committee, be included in the working group and that they see what the money is spent on as a loan from Poland. And only under these conditions can it be said that, indeed, money will go to rebuild customs infrastructure on the western border. Otherwise, they're going to be spent for nothing like millions, hundreds of millions of dollars that were involved in the modernization of the Fiscal Service as a result, the Fiscal Service doesn't even have a normal data processing center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tetjana. Please, the Radical Party of Light gives the floor to its leader, Oleg Laska, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support changes to the budget, which envision increased spending on defence and national security. Ukrainian military personnel must be provided with wages, and they must have powerful equipment, protective equipment, because the issue of protecting the country, reflecting Russian aggression, is the sacred duty of every Ukrainian citizen. At the same time, with the opportunity, in the presence in the House of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman's Parliament, I want to address you, I think it must be obvious for each of you that a strong army, a strong diplomacy, a strong country is only possible when Ukrainians have money, when Ukrainians have wages when they have a national producer when we don't get married around the world. So on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I demand that you increase radically in the budget for the next year's citizens' income, wages, pensions, social assistance, indexations of the minimum wage that Ukrainian animals are forced to pay today. I demand from you, Mr. Prime Minister, that a policy that would give jobs to Ukrainians develop national industry, agriculture. And about the land, I want to say, yesterday, I had a conversation with the President of Ukraine, with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the Head of the Supreme Council, and all three of us talked about the need to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. As a result of the lengthy discussions, we reached agreements and achieved that today the Law on the Moratorium will stand in the hall and we will all vote for it. No, the sale of Ukrainian land is enough to rob Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u83	Thank you. I haven't been able to sign up for the Fatherland faction. Please give Mrs. Kugel one minute, and from "The Will of the People" the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u84	I want to remind you that we are considering making changes to the budget in part of Poland's loan. First, I think we all thank the country of Poland for supporting us in very important infrastructure projects. But we should be ashamed, for our potential has always been higher and that's why, and Mr. Prime Minister, and the ruling coalition that they've created an emphasis on their policies to create new jobs, to develop businesses, to lower taxes, to support their population, they have an opportunity to help Ukraine today. The only request I know is that the Poles said that the roads would be built by themselves because they knew how to use and how to turn our officials into road builders. Please answer how many miles of road will be built for 68 million euros. And we ask the entire faction to have the cost of one kilometer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u85	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u86	The cost of one kilometer built by Poles became a base for price formation, for building Ukrainian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u87	Thank you. This is the last performance, please, of the will of the people, of the national MP Hirschfeld, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to take a little look at this issue from the other side. First, I would very much like to see Ukraine's future Ukrainian producers exported on these roads. Infrastructural projects around the world are not just road construction; they are an engine for economic development. We've lost entire industries, and now it's time to rebuild them, namely road construction. If we are seriously involved in infrastructure, we are under an obligation to reinvigorate the production of road construction technology in Ukraine, which has traditionally always been present in our enterprises. Unfortunately, today we see the opposite picture. When building a tractor factory, the Harkov Tractor Plant is simple, which could produce beautiful road vehicles not only for this project but also for projects that will be set up in the 2017 budget. Therefore, I think that the Cabinet of Ministers should be careful to ensure that these roads are mainly built by Ukrainian technology and Ukrainian technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. During the discussion, all speakers supported the bill. All that matters is that we maximize our mobility in the hall and be able to make a positive decision. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the use of credit by the Government of the Republic of Poland on terms of assistance related to the Committee's proposals on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals, a colleague. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[11:29:45]] For 298 The law is passed. Hello. We move on to the next project, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (5217 and 5217-1). There is an offer from the government to consider it as a reduced procedure. In doing so, I promise that there will be no restrictions on how to speak from factions, there will be no restrictions. Whoever supports this proposal, 5217 in short, please vote. Anyone who supports me, I ask you to vote, please. [[11:30:35]] For 205 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Thank you very much for supporting the previous changes to the State Budget Act, and allow me to present for your consideration a bill amending the State Budget Act (No. 5217), which is primarily called upon to provide additional funding for the security and defence sector of 7.1 billion dollars, including the Ministry of Defence – 3.8 billion, the National Police – 2 billion, the State Border Service – 1 billion and some others. This will allow us not only to support our troops and provide them with adequate security but also to prevent police reform from being halted and deployed elsewhere. And we're also proposing this bill to address the few urgent problems that you're talking about when you're talking about in your districts. First of all, it's an additional resource to implement the State Service Act. We propose to allocate 1.4 billion dollars, of which 1 billion is for district administrations, and generally for the implementation of the State Service Act. Yeah, that's not enough, and we hope we can come back to you again, but this resource that's about to come in handy and let us fund our employees in places, in district and district levels. We also propose that 420 million be allocated to support coal companies. This is the salary of the miners to be paid. In addition, we offer to finance the costs of representing Ukraine’s interests in foreign jurisdictions. 90 million bodies and additionally fund investment programmes and Regional Development Fund projects of 950 million. What are we asking you to do to support the changes? First of all, this is due to the economy that we were able to obtain from our debt obligations, particularly 8.9 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u91	Please give me 20 seconds to finish. Just give me a minute to finish. Thank you so much for the tip. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Most of this economy is related to the rights we spent in the first quarter of this year, and in general to the change in the borrowing schedule this year. We also propose, I would like to stress, temporarily 1.2 billion incomes this year in the uncontrollable areas of Lugansk and Donetsk region, temporarily taking into account the government budget. This will allow us to finance our spending this year. And as soon as it's necessary, and once we know that there is a need to finance exactly the uncontrollable areas that I hope will be checked out, we will consider this issue with the proposals of the committee that we discussed yesterday, and we will address this issue. Thus, taking into account these major changes and some other balanced redistributions presented by the principal supervisors themselves. We ask you very much to support today, taking into account the position of the committee that will now be sounded, the changes to the State Budget Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u93	And thank you, dear colleague. And a co-reporter, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Alexander Gorbunov, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Alexander. [[B in m in s a l in]] First it's a co-reporter, then it's two for, and then it's two for, and then it's two for, and then it's two for, and then it's two for, and then it's two for. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. I heard. I'm sorry. From now on. Excuse me, Mr. Gorbunov. You're speaking a little later, now an alternative bill. It is presented by Bill 5217-1, Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Dobrenkov. Excuse me, please. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. It is a pity that such landslide laws are being considered by a reduced procedure. It is very difficult to grasp the content and sources that the government is currently planning to use in two minutes. But we'll try. What does this bill propose? This bill does not aim to increase defence spending as much as the increase in police spending, national police, government officials working in ministries, government local administrations working in foreign diplomatic offices. More than 50 percent of the 7 billion dollars go to these exact needs. What do we propose? Everyone's talking about the lack of funds, the deficit of the stated funds, the underfunding of social protection, which affects a very large population. We have only 10 to 12 million pensioners in the country. We offer these costs as they are. They managed to accumulate these reserves for the U.S. Pension Fund. Because we have a very large deficit in the pension fund of Ukraine. Last night, representatives of the Petra Prashenka Block said that local budgets were underfunded in part of the payment of the cost of the extended passage. 1.9 billion in this bill, 5217-1, we propose to target the local budgets. The Ministry of Finance said very modestly that we are temporarily removing 1.1 billion dollars from the local budget of Donetsk and Lugansk. How can we temporarily delete? You confiscate these funds and refer them to the general fund of the state budget, so don't be shy and so cynical. So this is your decentralization, so this is your concern for Donbas? You take these costs away, you send them to pay their salaries to officials. I propose to vote for an alternative bill because it is more balanced and socially oriented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u95	Thank you for presenting the alternative bill. And I now invite a co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Alexander Gorbunov. Again, I'm sorry that the confusion came out a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, as has already been said, the Government Bill 5217 on Amendments to the 16th Year State Budget Act is aimed at increasing expenditures for the defence and security of the state, the implementation of the State Service Act and, above all, at the level of local government and the resolution of other urgent issues. With this in mind and the inclusion of the matter before the Supreme Council's consideration of the matter during the current week, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered the bill 5217 as a matter of urgency yesterday, October 5. A broad discussion of the bill took place on the committee. The most acute discussion in this regard was about proposals for temporary participation in the state budget of the local budgets of the Donetské and Lugansk regions, in which the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers. The committee is invited to clarify the relevant provisions of the bill and to provide for the government’s mandate. And first of all, to include in the annual report on the implementation of the State budget information on the amount of income of the relevant local budgets, which will be listed in the national budget in different ways, in the section of local budgets and types of income. Secondly, make proposals for settlement of compensation to the respective local budgets of Donetsk and Lugansk areas in the six-month period following the completion of the anti-terror operation. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Budget Committee adopted the following decision on the basis of the consideration and the need for an urgent settlement of the issues raised in the bill. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 5217 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account proposals agreed with the Ministry of Finance and presented in a letter to the committee. Appropriately, the committee, along with Minfin and the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical regulations in the drafting of the relevant law. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u97	15 seconds, finish, please. Please finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u98	I'm done. And I'd like to read about the issue. I want to read to all who may not have seen the article that we have foreseen. The Committee of Ministers of Ukraine on the 6-month deadline from the date of the current Presidential Decree on Completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u99	Let me finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u100	An anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine" shall make proposals to address the issue of compensation to the respective local budgets of the Donetsk Region, Luhansk Region, which are listed in accordance with section 2, paragraph 2, of this Act, to the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. This is an article in the Transitional Positions of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u101	Thank you for your explanation. Dear colleagues, we are now going to discuss Bills 5217, 5217-1. Please sign up: two for, two for the faction. Please, Yuri Pavlenko of the Opposition Block. He conveys the word of Natalia to the Queen, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! There's good news that we have a budget of 6 billion bracelets today. It's really big money, and it's our responsibility to make the most of this resource today. What Are People Asking Today? Asking us to raise pensions with you people's deputies, index pensions, end this equation, when people have gone to retirement every year, and today they receive a variety of payments. We have this opportunity with you today. There is an opportunity to take the first step towards a just pension in Ukraine. There is an opportunity for at least a few hundred bracelets for our pensioners to raise their pensions and give people little hope that the people's deputies think about them, care about them and make adequate decisions today. It is our duty and our duty to you. Therefore, the Opposition Unit requests you to vote on Bill 5217/1, where most of this resource, on our proposal, will be sent to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. By the end of the year, each of our pensioners may be able to raise an average pension by 500 grivens by the end of the year. It's small money, but our people are in dire need of it today. Please let us make the right and social decision. And we will at least justify the little trust of our constituents. Please support Bill 5217/1 and index pensions for our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u103	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko faction, please, Maxim Efimov to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I know exactly what you need to finance the defense. I know exactly what we need to finance our defenses. But I don't understand how we're collecting money from the local budgets of Donetsk and Lugansk today to take a billion and give it to articles that won't be used this year! I think it's the tip of cynicism. Vladimir Borisovich, you're being framed by the Ministry of Finance. Because today it is impossible to spend money on the DFRD that will not be used this year. Take money from people in those territories and place it under non-existent articles. I believe that a decision should be taken and that the spending portion of the budget should be taken away from the DFRD 950 million, from the income part to remove a billion 160 from Donetsk and from the Lugansk region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u105	And thank you. Please, from Self-Help, the national deputy of Georges passes the word to Shepherd Taras. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, it is clear that the Self-Help faction will support this bill because we do not have the right today to leave a private soldier, a private border guard, a private police officer without money and without pay. We understand this responsibility. But I would like to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, when are we going to make sure that these costs finally start coming to the army soldier? I want to remind you that we've all talked about from these rostrums that the wages of soldiers should be high, the soldier who is serving at the ATO today. As a result, not only did his salary rise, but every general who is currently in the Ministry of Defence and General Staff received a salary. We talked about the need to support those units that are in the ATO today. As a result, we passed a law where we have 250,000 armies, and in fact we have 260,000 military personnel today, but in the ATO, we have 50 percent. But the units that provide. In direct line with the Ministry of Defense and General Staff, it's 90,000, 100 percent full. The General Staff and the Ministry of Defense are 100 percent full. When do we finally begin to fill up the troops that are at war today? The last time you were on the faction, we talked to you about civilian control. Volodymyr Borisovich, take a look at the latest edition of "The Mirror of the Week" and you will see civilian control of tens and hundreds of millions decomposing from "The Crucional Prome", not "The Defense Prome", from "The Crucional Prome." When we work with you as a government, Volodymyr Borisovich, I ask that when we work with you as a government, and as a parliament in this part, all these devices that were used by our defence companies, at the Ministry of Defense, don't steal and drag on these funds? We're obviously going to support this bill. But when we talk about next year's budget, you won't be able to see any of our voices if we don't answer every Ukrainian and every soldier like the money that doesn't reach the retiree today, the teacher.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u107	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u108	Which do not reach our ordinary Ukrainians, and should go to our country's defenses, to every soldier, and how they drain from that budget. That's when we see from you, when we bring it to the country, then you'll see the votes for the next budget this year. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Cugella Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u110	As my colleague continues to speak, Mr. Groissman, I'm simply suggesting as an auditor that you don't have any questions about how to secure an army, and we support this 100 percent, put an operational audit obligation every day after each operation. This can help you both in the Court of Auditors, and the Audit Committee in your government, and then you will remove all the questions. Because, unfortunately, it's okay to go on. I'm talking again. Thank you for providing 1.4 billion for funding, for implementing the State Service Act, which has still stood by and supported our profile committee and our Alona Skrum. Thank you for your support. But I'm saying it again. Mr. Groyman, I've written to you and personally, there's such a factory that's very important in the country of the South German, it's alone, and it's very important, but it leads to bankruptcy. Today, the debt of 244.9 million is the wages and the energy supply. Please include this in the distribution and repayment of these debts, and we will support these changes. And more. I also realize that we cannot take Donetska, Lugansk, where we need to enter the winter season, repair schools, and homes where people live. Please take some of the profits from Naftogazu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as promised, I will give to all factions and groups, all ladies, in sequence. It's nice, isn't it? "Rebirth." Please, Yatzenka, one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! This law, we think, needs to be supported because, first of all, it renews the funding of the Cohlear implantation Children's Program for Deaf Children. And this year he's making 35 million, next year he's offering 75. Much has been done to ensure that funding under the Law on State Service is also in this law. Again, everyone says that crime must be tackled, but no one adequately supports law enforcement, so there is funding. The MP's Rebirth Party will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Silantiev. Silantiev, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Borisovic, distinguished colleagues, I would like to make a suggestion to you to see the ratio of the figures proposed in this bill. We have a subsidy from the State budget to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Uman and the reconstruction of 15 million roads and to develop physical culture and sports by the end of the year for the entire of Ukraine 8 million. I don't mind rebuilding the roads, but I don't mind that, in the face of the terrible situation that has taken place today with the health of the growing generation, with the health of the nation in our country, we've financed it all in a residual way. Today, we are at all levels of mortality, child crime, alcoholism and much more. The only opportunity to create a positive image of the country was our athletes, and here we see the worst performance in 25 years at the Olympic Games in all of Ukraine's history. The Radical Party calls for an increase in the State programme on:
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u115	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u116	Yes, thank you. The Radical Party requires increased funding of the State programme for the development of children's sports, mass sport, physical culture and sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Colleagues, to all factions, I give the floor, as prescribed by the Rules. I will, colleagues, now in sequence: one minute – Levchenko, one minute – Melniczuk, one minute – Krivenko and final – Pashinsky. No, no, society, four shows and all. We just can't make it anymore, I've given a complete list, all the factions will be. And Barezuk, that's it. So all factions are accounted for. Didn't you have a word yet? The opposition block hasn't made a statement yet, has it? Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u118	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, this project is an example of blasphemy that we see constantly in government actions and in the actions of most of the Supreme Council. Because, for example, in this project, there's a lot to talk about here about a lot of expenses that are completely unfounded, but one article I've been hit hard, actually, is 2 billion, 2 billion dollars for the National Police, right? Which is financed almost at the level of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What, are we building a police state? Indeed, this is a rhetorical question, for we can see that we are building a police state. Now, today, at 2 p.m., there will be activists, public care providers against these criminal bills that want to be passed on to the Supreme Council soon, and they want to give the National Police an additional 2 billion. For what? To continue to abuse Ukrainian citizens? These things can't be supported, you want, let's do it in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, as you say, and don't give it to the National Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u119	Yes, "The will of the people" has not yet been delivered. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u120	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. It's a good thing we're going to finance the defense sector. But in defense, we're hiding the police, the police, who are driving on the new "maracs" on the new "land cruisers" to be served. But are we yelling that the police's salary is short? Buy them UAZs or buy them other cars, let them drive cheaper cars and cheaper equipment, and the service will be cheaper, then they'll get paid. Do not buy fire trucks that earn a million dollars each. Come on, check the purchases, check the tenders, and you'll get your salary money. Don't fat, don't steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky of the Change Front. Please turn on the microphone. No, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! I would like to thank the Prime Minister and all the factions and groups who have decided to support this bill. This is an extremely important bill to support our defenses. I would like to point out that these costs go solely to financial maintenance. Unfortunately, the problem of public defence is that we haven't solved the problem of weapons. I am asking the Prime Minister to pay attention to this issue and to decide, to settle this issue, all the more so that we have mechanisms and budgets and existing financial instruments. And I'd also like to speak to the chairman. Not long ago, a representative of one of the deputies’ factions spoke out of this rostrum and demanded that the pensioners be paid. Mr. Chairman, let's now put the law in order of the day on special confiscation, put the money stolen by these gentlemen together with Yanukovitch into the budget and allocate it to the pensioners. And then, if you'll excuse me, from the television screens, everyone is the guardian of the state, and when the stolen assets come back, they're all in the bush. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u123	Thank you. Krivenka, one minute. And then one minute, Beresuk. And we're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u124	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all the factions of Parliament who signed up to support the allocation of just 70 million dollars at this stage for the South. I want to thank Oleg the Lightman and the Hen and others. And also support the allocation of 17 million 340,000 dollars for the construction and acquisition of housing for space agency military personnel, who are the only ones who haven't received anything this year. And I want Mr. Prime Minister to assure me that what I've said is that these issues will be resolved and settled in October, no later than, and then we can vote on this bill. Because miners are important, but we're adding 470 million, 420 million by law and 52 million by redistribution to finance miners' salaries. We've got car builders, rockets, Yuzmashians. I worked alone for five years at this company, so please support it during this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. And I remind the MPs, when you call the speech a last name, it's a direct transmission of the word to a man whose last name was called. I ask all my colleagues, speaking, to bear in mind this moment that I am obliged to give my word. So there's going to be a replica. But first, as I said, Oleg Berezuk. And then there'll be a replica of Easy. Semenchenko, please, one minute. And then there'll be a replica of Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u126	The Self-Help faction will vote in favour of allocating funds to our troops' salaries. However, in keeping with the question raised by the Shepherd, I would like to say the following. Parliamentary control is, of course, good. However, no treatment sent to the Military Prosecutor's Office by the members of the Committee on Safety and Defence concerning the launching of funds for the purchase of products, the purchase of funds for the army, has been brought to justice. There's not a single conviction. And this looting, namely stealing during wartime, is stealing, will continue until the law enforcement system is in place. I'm addressing the Attorney General. When you came to this office, you promised to set things straight in the D.A.'s office. This is how it will be done when the marauders, who are breaking our budget and who are taking the funds from the pensioners, are set up for specific terms of detention, and you will name their names and names from this rostrum in the prosecutor's office that have been "breathing them" before. Then it'll be all right. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u127	Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. There were two names, but, if you don't mind, 30 seconds, otherwise we'll just ask the question. Two names, Baby and Chicken, 30 seconds. Please, Baby, 30 seconds. Then the Hen 30 seconds of replicas. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko. The Radical Party faction supports the requirement to pay off the debt to the employees of the Uzhmash -- a strategic enterprise. And I take this opportunity to address the Prime Minister again. Yuzmash in Dnipr, Azumash in Mariupol, a whole range of other strategic enterprises that need to be loaded with work through defense orders. In order for them to work, to have a stable job, and to pay people their wages. Please provide for the corresponding expenditure in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u129	Please come in and prepare for the vote. Chicken, 30 seconds, and a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I thank you very much for making the decision to intervene and solve the problems that have accumulated on the South and the South. I hope that in the coming weeks, you will hold a proper meeting under your headship. You, thank you, have given appropriate orders to settle your debt on salary and on electricity debt and many other work issues. I very much hope that under your headship this council will be effective, and we will find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u131	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I hope everyone is already at work, and we can move on to making a decision. I inform you that I am continuing this session until the conclusion of this consideration. Yeah? And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (5217) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We'll support our military, please vote. Please, on the basis and in general. Vote. [[12:00:44]] For 265 The law is passed. Welcome to the government. Hello, Prime Minister. And I would like to give the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u132	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your support for this important bill, since it provides very clear support and defence sector costs, particularly the financing of our military, is the provision of military resources. We can talk today about the rhythmic financing of wages and the provision of Ukrainian Armed Forces by the end of the year. I would like to emphasize that we need to provide a salary for the National Police within the framework of the reformed National Police. In particular, I would like to emphasize that the changes that you've voted on are changes that will allow ordinary searchers to significantly increase their salary this year, these guys who are standing on top of crime, who are caught every day by murderers, rapists, to receive due respect and support from the state, including in material and technical security. I want to remind you that yesterday we made a decision in the government, and I will thank you for your support in changing the law that has weakened the responsibility of those who have remained in prison today who have committed grave and extremely serious crimes. Today, the laws of such criminals allow them to be released, and they have repeatedly committed murders. Eight and a half thousand people were released, from down 906 committed re-crimes over a week or two, 27 murders, 12 rapes, dozens of robberies and robberies. This is a challenge for us, and we have to stand guard over the security of Ukrainian citizens. I would like to emphasize that these changes are changes that will allow us to finance the public service in a rhythmic manner, to close funding issues, including the wages of miners, and to support regional development. I believe that this decision was absolutely justified. That's why I want to thank you again. I mean, it's different. I'd like to ask all the political leaders who are particularly speaking out of the rostrum, so we don't have to deal with naked populism. Well, you don't realize that 6 billion today can be distributed to support pensions, but next year, 6 billion for 12 months, you have to find 72 billion dollars that can only be found from one, and I want to agree with the different factions here, from the revival and development of the national industry, from the revival and development of the national economy, from the creation of jobs, from the creation of a national innovation product with added value, to the ability to raise funds and reinvest them in the quality of human life. What should we do? We need this change to be fast, and we need the support of Parliament here. I thank you for making a number of decisions yesterday or yesterday, including in technology parks and other decisions that will allow national industry to be restored. I want to stress that the government is completely open to economic development. And our priority is to increase, including minimum wages and social standards. And I want to remind you, dear colleagues, that it will be December 1st that such standards will increase by 10 percent. If you ask me whether it's much or little, it's little. It's extremely small, but that's what we can really do today without bringing our nation into the chasm of inflation and economic downturn. So our task together is to create a system that will allow for rebirth. I was asked today: Victor Krivenko, Maxime Chicken and Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel about the South. I think that this issue needs to be addressed immediately in order to find systemic solutions, how to restore the business, so that it does not generate debt. This is the main task today. And this year, this month, the government is going to create a National Industrial Recovery Committee. In conjunction with the work of our national deputies, with the real sector, with industry, with entrepreneurs, we will be able to find solutions at the level of the state that is needed for the development of national industry, national economy, job creation. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that your support is more important than ever. The government truly appreciates it. And we will do everything we can to deepen our cooperation with the people's deputies of Ukraine in order to make good, transparent and effective decisions. In particular, decisions allowing public control to control public finances spent by the State, particularly in the defence sector. The government is absolutely open to analyze each bracelet and to understand how effectively it is used. I want to thank the people I met on the factions. It's Peter Poshenko's Block, People's Front, Oleg Lachka's faction, Rebirth Group, People's Will, Self-Help. Thank you for having me. I think the meetings were constructive, they were specific enough. So we're set up for further cooperation. Thank you so much for your support, dear fellow national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u133	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, for taking part in our meeting with the government. Thank you, colleagues, for making important decisions on the changes to the 2016 budget. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute break until 12.35. At 12.35, we will meet in the conference room to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. We are moving on to the following issues of the agenda. We next have two questions from the education section. And, dear colleagues, this is a matter of great importance: one is the education bill, the other is the higher education bill, which has been drafted for a long time. And I'm asking you now to support the transition to this issue and I'm really asking everyone to come into the hall. Now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and get ready for work. Please. The following are now laws: (3491) the draft Education Act and (3312) the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. I say again, if we go into an hourly discussion, we might not be able to do that. Now, I'm going to put in a shorter procedure, but in order to do that, you just have to have people who can vote. So I invite everyone into the hall, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We have an extremely important agenda today in order to get through it as much as possible, we just need to work harder. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, can we get to the vote? I'm proposing a review of the draft Education Act with a reduced procedure, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are no people, yeah. Then let's wait. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. And I ask the secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a motion for a brief procedure for the draft Education Act (number 3491-d, MP). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:45:35]] For 121 My colleagues, please come into the hall, I'll put it on again. I'll make that offer again. Colleagues, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we'll go in full procedure, colleagues. So once again, I'm proposing a simplified procedure of 3,491, which I'm working on. Please vote, please support. If there is no support, let's move on to the full procedure. Please support me. Please vote, for the summary procedure, please vote. [[12:46:47]] For 133 It's not a decision you make, colleagues. We're going through a full procedure. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. May I see the report, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u135	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, Madam Minister, today we have the opportunity to adopt a strategic paper on the field of education, which has been developed by the Committee on Science and Education for re-reading, this is project 3491-d. The new draft law was introduced as a result of the work of a committee prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft law. The working group included representatives of various ministries, departments, such as the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the National Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine, the Central Committee of the Professional Union of Ukraine, the public. This is a consensual system document that harmonizes the interests of representatives of different educational networks. The committee, working on the bill, tried to preserve the basic values of the current law concerning the protection of the rights of people to education, State social guarantees for teachers, free textbooks, and to propose systematic reform of the education system. The bill contains a whole bunch of money. First. This is an introduction for the first time in Ukraine, it's an inclusive education. The other one. Recognition of formal, informal and informational education and the possibility of converting into one another. Third. Territorial accessibility to full general education, including support schools, the creation of educational districts. Four. It's the creation of a professional or academic high school. Fifth. It is the right of educational institutions to create educational complexes. This is a very important moment, because we have to create educational environments for children where they have the ability to form their own educational trajectory. Six. The introduction of public control and supervision in education at all levels. Seven. Updating the quality assurance system according to European requirements. This means creating a separate public authority to control the quality of education of independent institutions by assessing the quality of education. So we offer tools that will show people the quality of education in the education market. Nine. Providing public administration to educational institutions, including in the field of parental employment. Ten. The introduction of an educational professional qualification system, the creation of a National Qualifications Agency that will link education to a professional environment. Eleven. This is the introduction of pedagogical certification to improve the quality of teaching. Twelve. It is normal to maintain academic integrity, which is very important to all of us today. Because the problem of plagiarism is already getting to the right level. Thirteen. Social rights and guarantees are being strengthened for the education community, as well as for the teaching, science and teaching staff. Fourteen. The academic and financial autonomy of educational institutions is declared. I say it's declared because that's why we have to fight. In addition, the document allows for systematic reform of the general and secondary schools. education. Today, children in school are overloaded, and we know all this, a large number of subjects, a large amount of home schooling. And so we need a complete reformation of the content of school education, not the lowering of the level, but the reformation, it's very important. Because we have to leave the basics. First of all, update the content of school physics and mathematics. These are government standards, teaching programs, textbooks, teaching tools. We need not only to increase the number of lessons in mathematics and physics, but to make knowledge of physics and mathematics and natural disciplines realistic, useful in life. In doing so, our children have to have new key competences: that and a good knowledge of one of the foreign languages, that is the ability to use information and communication technologies, that is to have entrepreneurial skills and other competences that should provide a child with a career and a career. There's also a number of warnings on the committee, and you and I need to understand that in order to be able to do this between first and second reading after the adoption of this law in the first reading. It's our big responsibility, because just adopting the law is not enough. We must accept it so that it is implemented in Ukraine. And so once again, we want to say what we should do. We need to review the related aspect and return to the standard that the education system in Ukraine should have 7 percent of GDP. This is very important. The Ministry of Education and Science reviewed the indicators needed for funding in 2017, because the first figures were 36 billion and 2018 66. Now after the review, we have the need for the following year from 7.5 billion dollars on the condition that pedagogical workers' salaries are increased by two tariff levels that we are now placing in this budget. The bill should also take into account and, in my opinion, this is what we are working on in the second reading, and there are very important mechanisms for addressing migration from the regions of Ukraine of aboriginals and students, which could threaten a catastrophic shortage of labour resources in the near future. We must, through law, make human resources management that implements a balanced approach according to the territories. Third. There are things that we can also reconcile between the first, second readings related to the definition of "professional", "professional and technical education" and so on. We also want to say that it will be very important to adopt a large number of sub-legal acts, acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And there's got to be a big, shared job. Next. Yeah, we know that, and that's also at a significant level of discussion, that's a 12-year problem. I think there's an approach, and I think we'll be able to find a consensus between first and second reading that will allow us to take social opinion, society today. And between the first and the second readings, we can actually develop an appropriate map of legal and financial implementation. This is also important for the law to work. The Committee on Science and Education generally drew positive conclusions on the draft Law on Education by NAN Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy. To date, only Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance has had a negative conclusion. The committee also received a wide range of proposals from ministries and other central executive authorities regarding its development. I stress that the draft law strengthens social guarantees in education, democratic governance rules, public control in the field of education and in general corresponds to the pro-European course of our state. It takes into account the interests of basic Steakholders of education, offers opportunities for a better relationship of education with the labour market, and forms new values and orientations of education policies. So the honourable colleagues, despite the discussions we have, are offering to accept it as a basis, then work on all the discussion points between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, there is a question to the reporter right now under the Rules, so don't step away from the rostrum. Is there a question in the room? Please sign up. Or we're going to cancel out. Any questions? Got it. Please, Your Honor. We have three minutes to ask questions according to the complete procedure. Please, the representative of the People's Front of the River. River.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u138	Please turn on the microphone, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u139	Your Honor, the reporter! I thank you for the broad and detailed explanation of the basic principles of this bill. I would like you to remind our colleagues in Parliament once again that it is extremely important for reforming the education system, that it is fundamental, from which we will start to adopt such important bills as "On Vocational Education", "On Preschool Education", that it is essential for us to be able to optimize and make our education system competitive, modern and pro-European in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u140	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u141	Thank you, Taras Dmitrovich. I want to remind you once again that in connection with the adoption of the Higher Education Act, two years ago, we now have technicians and colleges, i.e. level two and a half. They're nowhere. And if we adopt this law, then we have the possibility of adopting two more special laws: the Basic Vocational Education Act and the Higher Vocational Education Act, which are in contact with this law. And this solves the question of legalization of the work of vocational education, as well as the placement of technology and colleges in the higher-level trades sector. This is very important, because if we can't accept this, we're going to have to accept the additions to the Higher Education Act and continue working on technology and colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u142	Please, Mr. Kurilo, from the Peter Dust Block. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u143	Kurilo, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Yes, your thorough report, and I'm going to point out that an active Education Act that has been working for more than 15 years, has played a positive role in keeping the best acquisitions of our education and increasing them, and today Ukrainian education, it's in the wake of European world education, it doesn't feed the rear. But time goes and needs to change, and today all the links to education, they need to be reformed, because this is a basic law we've been laying the foundation for education for many years. So please tell the committee that you are ready to work on an accelerated schedule, that is, for two weeks, do you want to make preparations for the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Vitaly Semenovich, I want to say that in order for us to effectively adopt this law in the second reading, we need a normal procedure to reconcile all issues. Therefore, I think that together with the Education Ministry, together with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the committee will be able to work out all the points of discussion so that we can have a successful vote on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u145	Thank you. Questions to the rapporteur are completed, dear colleagues. You can, Mr. Reporter, while you go to your workplace. And now there's got to be a co-report, and we don't have it under the Rules for this bill, so talk from the factions. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance, and I'm also offering two minutes to limit us to speaking in order to save time and then move on to the discussion of other bills. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Mrs. Souslow, your word. Mrs. Irina gives Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please, Mr. Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, let's ask ourselves a very simple question. For what purpose do we spend our budget? What are we financing for? The goal is to spend money or get a result. If you get a result, obviously the funding has to be focused on getting that result. Unfortunately, so far, we have funded all the budgetary areas, including education, we finance the process, we finance the states, we finance the meters, we have the heat, and so on. What's the result? We don't create incentives for the development of the system, we preserve the system. Does the Education Act answer that question? No, it's not. It preserves the existing system. Because the system needs a completely different approach: we have to give up spending, we have to stop spending, we have to go to the service, we have to stop paying for the product. The final product of education is a highly educated specialist, a trained child, and that is the goal of funding. You're not going to fix these things in the second reading, because it's about changing philosophy. You can't fix this in second reading mode. There's another financial problem that I wanted to get caught up in. This is the law, why did I insist on reading it fully? This is, firstly, a system law, and secondly, the price of this law is the full version of 160 billion dollars. Think about that figure. And whatever we're doing in stages, whatever we're running, it's a huge amount. I'd probably keep my mouth shut if that was the money, but there's no money. Where do you want them? We live with a budget that has a 100 billion hole. This year's budget is no exception. The budget project presented to us by the Cabinet of Ministers has a 100 billion dollar hole. Do we want to fund debt again? I would like to remind you that Ukraine’s debts were recently appreciated.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u147	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u148	Ukrainian debt is now valued, not by billions, but by trillions. Operational data: Ukraine’s debt of 1.7 trillion At the end of the next year, according to what the government gave us in the budget, the Ukrainian debt would be 2.3 trillion. Do we think we're adding something to debt financing? No, it's not. By investing in debt, we never add anything, we take away, we take away the future. So I ask you to refrain from voting for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Mr. Litwin. People's MP Litwin from the will of the people. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u150	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to follow the rules. So, by adopting the system law to consider, the Supreme Council didn't support it, but you put two minutes in your own way. Let's do it by the book. And change your time, please. Let us answer a specific question. When did the societies of countries make a breakthrough? They did it when they made a bet on the brains when they made a bet on science. And they provided adequate funding for both the science and education systems and for those doing scientific work and teaching. Do we have national attention to this problem? I don't think so, because the Ministry of Education can't solve this problem because it's not the Ministry of Finance. The example is simple. We passed the Higher Education Act, it's going through. We passed the Law on Science and Technology, it doesn't work. Science in Ukraine in a person of the National Academy of Sciences is dying! And I think there's a lot of interested people here who want her to finally stop and make Ukraine completely a raw supplement. With regard to this law. It has a common sound. Instead, we want to consider it. And there was a wild proposal not to pass that law. I have a different offer. Since this is the result of the work of the scientific and pedagogical community, to accept it as a basis and to continue working with it, this law. But in the final positions of this law, when we accept it, it takes effect on one condition. When the funding law is implemented, it is 7 percent. Otherwise, we do not need to adopt laws for the sake of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u151	Thank you. By the way, you've been in for two minutes, Your Honor. Please, now, Mrs. Vojciekhovska. Now, Mrs. Vojciekhovska, when she reaches the Fatherland faction, of course, we will take your wishes into account. Mrs. Svetlana, please, from the People's Front. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the authors and, in particular, Lilia Mikhailni Greenevich, the Minister of Education, who has worked systematically for several years to write this law. This law is so systematic that it lays the foundation for our secondary education. And it's very interesting that there have been a number of concepts that have not been in the system of secondary education at all, especially "inclusive learning." But what I would like to see is not only the attitude towards inclusive learning but the concepts of non-discrimination in education in general. In particular, the question of competence, which is also in this law and which lays the foundation for the development and upbringing of our children, is not a gender issue. I would also like to point out that among the key competences of today’s people is the ability to understand equal opportunities and gender problems. I would very much like the developers to include these issues in their second reading. I know that today the Ministry of Education has developed a good Gender Education Strategy in Ukraine and is currently under review in the Cabinet of Ministers. I call on all national MPs to vote in favour of the system law, to support and secondly to make corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. This is from the Fatherland faction led by Julia Timoshenko. And they're asking for three minutes. Please, Mrs. Timoshenko. Are you from the rostrum or from the scene? From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u154	My fellow Members, I would like to say right now that our faction as a whole supports the concept of this law, supports all the directions it has set in it, but for the second reading we will certainly give all the necessary observations and suggestions. What I'd like to say right now. That the Fatherland Party had been approached by educational and scientific unions, they simply called out the SOS signal. This is really what needs attention today in the Parliamentary Corps. What they're saying. They say that in the last two and a half years everything about education, science, has been brought to an extreme state of stagnation. For example, they analyzed with us how much in solid currency, how much in the U.S. dollars were spent in early 2014 on education and science, and how much is planned for 2017. And it turns out that at the beginning of 2014, $13.2 billion was spent on education, and now, for 2017, only $5 billion. It's catastrophic, more than twice the cost of education and science. They also raised the question that we do not have the right to lower the rate that will form the spending portion of the education and science budget, which must remain 10 percent of the gross domestic product, not 7. And in general, the priority of education and science, it's obvious to the whole world, and what we've driven this completely into stagnation doesn't do the country any honor. We have 6 seats with you at the United Nations level of education of our nation, our people. And we can't practically destroy that indicator. And so I would also like you to pay attention to what the teachers are talking about, and they're saying that the status of the teacher is reduced to zero. And if a teacher comes to work for the first time today, he's paid a salary of 2,000 dollars, and a police officer, the detectives are 10, 20, 30 thousand dollars. And we can't turn Ukraine into a police state. We are obliged to restore to our teacher the status of his headship in our country because he is raising our children. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill does not mention the minimum wage of a teacher. Teachers insist that the start-up wage of the first level of the tariff grid be set at least three minimum levels of living, and this is what has to be paid to them as appropriate. Moreover, this bill on education must be absolutely accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u155	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u156	A political component. You know, it's the first time there's been a requirement that every five years the principals of the schools and the directors of the vocational and technical institutions will be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u157	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u158	You can't do that. The director is an authority person, not just for the school, for the community, but for the President's election to be school principals. We're in favour of the first reading, but we need to work on it seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u159	Thank you. They also asked for the word of the factions who had not been able to register. Please, the Radical Party of Light, its leader and then the Self-Help, Oleg Berezuk. And in the end, we will have the opportunity, of course, to sum up the profile minister, Lilia Grinevich. Two minutes is enough, you said, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. German Iron Chancellor Bismarck said, "He who does not finance education will finance the construction of prisons." Today’s course of authority seems to be aimed at increasing prisons rather than increasing the number of Ukrainians with decent education. First of all, I want to draw attention to the problems of rural education. Today, mass schools in rural areas are closed under the economics of the budget, and rural children are deprived of decent knowledge. Whom do we want to raise? When in the third millennium, in this global world, we can be successful as a country, as a nation under one condition, when we have modern knowledge and when the nation will be healthy. What do we see instead? The cuts in education spending, physical culture, sports, and the performances of the Olympics in Brazil showed that if there is no money for sport, there is no achievement. So we demand that the government stop the school closure epidemic, primarily in rural areas. Save it for the prosecutors, save it for the judges you assign 300,000 dollars a month's salary, but do not save money on rural children, on rural education, and on rural teachers. The next question is the system of vocational education. We require the budget next year to provide for state funding for vocational schools. Because local budgets can't finance a CTU facility. Who's learning? Children of orphans, children of low-income families, children of the poorest and deprived of parental care. What right do you have to deprive your children of the opportunity to gain employment knowledge, work education in order to realize themselves in life? So the Radical Party faction requires a radical increase in pay for education. And hands away from education, from schools, from rural education!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u161	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word, Oleg Berezuk is invited. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u162	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Your Majesty, Minister! Dear Vice Minister of Education! The state should love only with money; it has nothing left to love. You are experts, Minister and Deputy Minister, high-ranking and professional. But you are as much a hostage as the whole of the Ukrainian people, without money of education. This law is a framework. But this framework, unfortunately, is not filled with painting, this framework is empty because there is no funding for education. It was still empty, over the past ten years, the chronic underfunding of education, which was at least 20 percent compensated by whom? Parents who bought toilet paper to replace energy - efficient windows and local budgets. What are we offered today? We are offered a law that needs to be passed because it has philosophy. But we're told, we need to get some more education out of her subsidy, which is still underfunded by 20 percent, utilities and farm parts. Education was always funded, subsidies were enough for wages -- 90 percent, 7-9 percent or 10 percent were enough for energy. The rest was funded by parents who carry education on their shoulders, and that is right, and cities. What does the State do? What would the state do to save by shutting down schools? Closing schools in high-rise areas over 600 meters is a crime. Because those children will not be taken by road 20 miles [20 km] and 20 miles [20 km] away to those schools that do not exist. This should increase the funding ratio for mountain schools, because there are 15-20 children who need care. If one of the deputy ministers tells me that they can live in boarding schools, let their children live in boarding schools. It's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u163	Please add one minute, insists Mr. Bresück.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u164	Thus, it is important to understand that the child’s education is based on three pillars: commitment to the State, commitment to local communities, and commitment to parents. But these three components have to be directed by the state. Parental money has to be invested individually in the child’s own head, urban money has to be invested in the infrastructure of improvement, and state money has to provide the base. Therefore, by voting for this law, we must support the philosophy that the State will care for education. We need to support a teacher who today says that he is undervalued not only by financial means but also by the state's attitude toward him as a profession. In the first year of this year, when some school principals do not have school applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u165	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u166	They do not want to go there because it is a profession that is despised by the state. We vote in favour of this law, but we make demands on the state: respect for man and teacher.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have not yet been able to sign up the representative of the Opposition. And please turn on Matthew's microphone from 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u168	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, of course, we are well aware that our education system has long required a serious public approach and changes. All of this we see and understand. But we understand another thing: that any change, any reform must be linked to a change in financial flows, to any reform. The figures that have been called here have given rise to certain, indeed, fears and concerns that the reforms we have begun will not become a soap bubble again. Social protection is primarily needed for workers who are indeed schools: teachers, teachers, technical workers who work in this area. The funding system. We have not talked for years about their wage levels being at least at the average wage level in our State. But unfortunately, we haven't touched it that way. This is one moment. The second direction that needs attention is logistics. Let us talk today about equipping the same offices of physics, chemistry, labour offices. What have we turned these offices into so far?Oh, my God! You come in, they're historical exhibits that we have at school today. What do we teach our children today? Yes, we have achievements in computer classes, but most of us are lagging behind in this development. We have a special place in improving the teaching process. But we also need to understand one thing, one truth: the school director, as the leader of the teaching process, must be ahead of this process, and we have turned it into a pre-departure, which is working on repairs, the Transparent system, the preparation of some financial documents, financial reports. He has never done anything to analyze how the pedagogical process has been carried out to date. Therefore, in any case, to date, we need to think about how to approach the reform system of secondary school. And we need to go in this direction, but once again, I stress, only in the first reading, in the most careful way, with specific professionals from the places to make their amendments to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u169	Thank you. From the factions, all those who wished to speak spoke. Please record now. I'm already on the block of Peter Dustenka. And now there's a recording by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had factions for two minutes, so let's take two minutes and we'll take two minutes. But we're betting on these performances as much as the Rules do, and more deputies will be able to speak. Please, Vladislav Dove is handing Victor Pinzenic over from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u170	Dear National Deputies! Why did I ask to speak again on this matter? A few things I'd like to tell you again. First. What incentive, then, does a teacher have today to care for the quality of education? Is there an incentive? There's an obsession. There are people who are committed. But the funding system has nothing to do with the results. And nothing will change until the country moves on to a different principle: instead of financing the maintenance of institutions, it has to go on to finance the payment of services. Paradox, which is the first in this case. The first violin is played by the Ministry of Health, and it wants to translate medicine into this principle of financing. In education, this is much better and easier; in higher education institutions, it is quite easy to translate the payment system of a trained specialist. But once again, it's a completely different philosophy. And second moment. I've heard a lot of speeches from my colleagues. That's the right thing to do. But you discussed the budget, you didn't discuss the Education Act. And we have the subject of the Education Act. I understand the discussions about financing education if you were to discuss this issue in the budget. But you can't take away resources from the law that needs a total of 160 billion dollars. I'm not having a discussion right now about how much education needs to be given, this discussion needs to be led to the government's budget for consideration. I urge you to do it there because it's the law. If we make a decision here, we'll make a good one. But the candy has only the envelope, and the teacher wants to see not the envelope, but he needs the real product.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Taras Kremen of the People's Front. From where I'm standing, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u172	Yes, of course. Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this important thing. First of all, the education law that we are currently looking at is fundamental to the legislative provision of education. And from how effectively and qualitatively we can process it for second reading and vote in general, it depends on how effectively we can prepare such bills as vocational education, as a national qualification system, etc. I absolutely share the warnings of our colleagues in part of the financial provision of this document, as well as in general the activities of the education system of Ukraine as a whole. But I would like to draw your attention to this. Whichever of the outgoing meetings of our Committee of Education and Science we were at, we would not have had parliamentary hearings, and yesterday we had an open meeting of our committee, where each of the National Deputies of the various MP factions and groups could express their wishes or warnings, all wishes are taken into account. We're now being watched by millions of students and teachers and their parents, and they're really counting on this document to be adopted today. So I'm asking you to consolidate all the halls, to understand perfectly that this document is the main thing this week, it's fundamental to us, because together with funding for education, we know that the changed tariff network, along with the local self-government authorities, is additionally receiving an educational subsidy for the following year, the process is ongoing. So all the risks there are, we're ready to process for second reading. Please support this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u173	And thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak from the People's Front, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone with what we are now now gathering together and voting for such a necessary bill in the first reading. I want to remind you that together we all adopted amendments to the Higher Education Act, and then Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich was still a member of the People's Front faction, head of the Professional Committee, and we counted all the positions. Now, in her role as minister of education and science, she has done everything she can to ensure that the new Secondary Education Act is proposed and we must do everything possible to take all our wishes into account between the first and the second readings and to do the main thing: to return education and trust, and their essence in shaping the future of our nation. So let's get together and together we'll support this bill in the first reading, and we'll work on possible comments between the first and the second readings. And I'm sure Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, Minister of Education and Science, will present the bill in second reading, and we will all support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Maxime. Please, from Mrs. Hopko's non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u176	Iro, please pass the word to a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u177	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, today is a truly historic day for our national education. Today, the future of our country is determined by the fate of a large, serious sector. So first of all, I would like to emphasize that the faction of Peter Dustenk's Block will support this bill in the first reading. Today, our individual colleagues expressed their warnings, their comments. They're particularly fair in terms of funding. And I think that we should focus our efforts not on hindering the adoption of this law today, but on directing our education in the next ten years to be provided with the funding that we have talked about and talked about so much today. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is fundamentally new, unlike what has been going on for the last fifteen years. It's aimed at innovative technology, it's aimed at bringing our whole system into general order. This is a basic law, and we need to support it today in the first reading in order to start a progressive process in the education system, and not to be a stop. I think everyone in the room today supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u179	And thank you, colleague. Please welcome John Krulko from the "Fatherland" faction. It'll be from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u180	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, today we have before us an extremely important bill. This is the new edition of the Education Act. The law on education in its original form, adopted back in 1991, has become morally obsolete. And we certainly need to take into account all the positive points, the new ideas that have emerged during this time. In particular, it is very important, and I fully support, and thank Mrs. Greenevich, Minister of Education, for introducing new forms of education, informal education, information education. That's what we're actually going to do today with the European Union and with the money that is defined and recognised in this context in the European Union. Of course, this law should be voted on in the first reading. But at the same time, let's look at the situation that teachers are in today. The teacher’s work in the Ukrainian State is, unfortunately, following. Teachers are financed by a residual principle. Even for government procurement at the university of profile, we have flaws in our teaching. Young people do not go to school because there is extremely low financial security. And in this context, we have to make sure that the teacher is financed at the highest level. So there'll be competitions for the teacher's job. And the best of the best young people were preparing young Ukrainians. Bismarck was already mentioned in our hall. I'll mention another quote from Bismarck. That it's the teachers who win the wars. So we need to teach the best teachers to prepare Ukrainian patriots who will not protect the DNRs and LNRs, but who will support the Ukrainian state, Ukrainian principles and train the best professionals in various fields of young Ukrainian people. We need to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Bezbach Yakovovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u182	I certainly support this bill because I consider it new and innovative. Of course, today our schools are so outdated that what new education is at stake. I'll back you up because there's funding here. I'll support it because there's a new perspective on how to approach the school itself. Of course, what is happening in our schools today is causing a lot of negative. Well, please take these fights that everyone's talking about today, but no one can stop this process. If they had people's income before, then they could have taken it, and no one was upset. Today, it is often the incomes of low, many children and still the school director who collects this money. This practice must be stopped. Well, of course, there's still the filling of the school itself. Where are the interactive boards, where are all the new approaches and computer classes we're talking about? They've been gone a long time. Those who were have long been morally outdated. That is why I will vote in favour of this law. Well, of course, it's a pleasure that the law will provide funding for the teacher himself. Because today we can't talk about good education if today the teacher can't afford to buy something out of clothes or even to try something. Therefore, thank you to those who have prepared this bill. I'm going to vote for him, because this is the first step towards really making things right. Well, two words I want to say about CTU. In due course, we have embalmed the orchards, and now there is nowhere to send the children. There are virtually no dormitories in the PTU today. No dormitory! How will these children learn if they come from faraway areas? Therefore, I am asking the Ministers to look into this issue and to prohibit the sale, to distribute these apartments, to leave rooms to whom it is not clear and to leave them to children.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u184	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, if you look at the whole bill in a comprehensive way, it certainly improves the situation compared to the existing legislation, which is certainly outdated and generally of another era. Unfortunately, however, this bill has a number of major shortcomings that risk destroying all its benefits or making it even more negative than existing legislation. Well, first of all. The current legislation states that the State provides a budget allocation for education of at least 10 percent of national income, as well as monetary allocations for basic activities. And this bill suggests, quote, "at least 7 per cent of gross domestic product at the expense of state, local and other sources of financing that are not prohibited by legislation." Right away we see the decline in funding, which is totally unacceptable, which is in principle, and now there is no such funding, but it turns out that these changes allow for the legal anchoring of completely unacceptable and openly criminal underfunding of the educational sphere. There are also two very interesting moments. Here this bill parallels the "Principal" and "Transitional Positions" with changes to the Master Code and the Ukrainian Act on State Property Management, which prescribes such a gap as to allow essentially privatization of state and municipal educational institutions. Now this is clearly forbidden in existing legislation, and this law prescribes such a failure. Because it is prescribed that they are not subject to privatization, except in cases established by law. So they're allowing it to be written somewhere. So I think it's completely unmissible, and that's something that needs to be ruled out before the second reading. Mr. Chairman, please add 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u185	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u186	And last of all, so as not to turn the law into a positive butt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u187	Please make the last speech in the discussion. Yeah, 30 seconds, please, 30 seconds. Okay. Turn on Lechchenka 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u188	In order for this law not to be just a positive buttonophoria, of course, where there are many rules that do not produce real results, it is certainly necessary to establish the minimum funding of teachers, the minimum wage that would be worthwhile. Because if a teacher is not properly financed, there will be no benefit in the law for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a closing statement now, and then there will be the Minister's closing statement, and we will proceed to the vote. So please ask the MPs to call into the Hall, please mobilize the maximum deputies that are currently on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now Kugel is passing the word to Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I remember very well when a basic law was passed right at the dawn of independence in 1991. And by the way, the fact that he's existed for so many years, despite the fact that he's changed, shows a very good quality of how he was designed. Undoubtedly, during that time a mass of novels appeared, I wanted to personally thank Lilia Grinevich for the goal of independent appreciation, as it was realized. And I think that's an example of those revolutionary, evolutionary approaches that allow for a very serious change in the system of evaluation and training of professionals. But it seems to me that there is a period when we need to go beyond what is happening and when we really need to make major changes to the education funding system itself. It seems to me that this is where the first stone is set up for a very big deal, to create a school district that is actually going to be funded by schools, by all schools. And that's exactly how this financial security is going to be built up, because it's going to be under the overall control of both parental committees, and the school committees are going to let it take the next step. But this, I think, is the question of the next few years and this reform is going to have to be done one way or another. That's why our "Fatherland" faction will no doubt support this bill. And I think we have a good chance of moving forward in the future and, at least, the laws have been in place for decades, and, most importantly, they have to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're about to go to the vote, so I'm asking everyone to come into the room. And now for three minutes, I'm giving Mrs. Lilia Greenevich the education minister. Please turn on Mrs. Lilia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear viewers! For us today is a very important day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine because we have been going to it for three years. Because this bill is about making a huge number of experts and the public that's already discussed it. So it's a document that's been saying for a really long time. First of all, I want to thank you for your sincere pain in education in Ukraine, because this is what you really heard in the discussion. We are no doubt very interested in increasing funding from the Ministry of Education and Science. But I would like to draw your attention that there are a lot of rules in this law that don't need much money, but if now the law isn't only adopted because we have fears in this room about possible non-funding, we're going to re-enact a system of education that's long gone beyond the requirements of the 21st century and the demands of our children and young people. I'd like to point out that when we say that there was a 160 billion thought in this room that was necessary for the implementation of this law. In fact, the Transitional Positions clearly define how the law will be introduced gradually. For example, article 61 of this law sets the level of pay of the teacher, where it is said, and the suggestion is that the teacher’s salary is equal to three minimum wages. This is in the Law in article 61. Obviously we can't do this right now, and no one can do that, but in Transitional Positions, we're going to define how we're going to go to that indicator. Next. Already this year, we have offered to move two levels forward across the single tariff grid for teachers. It's also a major step in increasing social status. We, as the Ministry of Education and Science, are ready to cooperate with the National Deputies, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Budget Affairs, so that, between the first and second readings, we can work out this bill in all shades, we are open to your amendments. Let's change the education system of Ukraine for the better for our children and young people to meet the current demands and expectations of society. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Lilia. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats. I would like to emphasize to you that this bill is the result of systematic work: both the Ministry and the committee -- very long-term work. And we only take it as a basis. All who are warned, we will be able to make a contribution to the second reading. As far as funding is concerned, I stress that this is a government bill, and in fact the government is the most responsible for whether or not there can be a sector and a bill is funded. So I think there's good reason for us to support this bill together right now. Dear colleagues, I'm waiting. Please, yes, come in. And I'm voting on draft Education Act 3491 on a committee proposal on a basis, colleagues. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Education Act (3491) as a basis. "D", 3491-d. [[13:42:07]] For 277 Decision taken. Welcome to Lila Grinevich. Welcome to the committee, Mr. Spykowski. It was an important decision. Thank you. But we're going to have another education bill, so we're going to have to stay in the hall. The next bill, colleagues, is no longer as extensive as the previous one, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the employment of graduates. So I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of his consideration of the reduced procedure. It's not complicated. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:42:55]] For 204 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a big request. Everyone knows what the essence of this bill is. For the first time, we should put a dot in the existence of forced labor in Ukraine. It's a nonsensence, it's a rudimentary that has existed since Soviet power. Dear colleagues, we have only students who graduate from medical colleges and universities who have and are forced to work. There are no other specialties. We've taken into account -- I'm turning to the Self-Help faction -- we've taken into account the amendment of your national MP, Mrs. Sisoyenko. And so we solved that question because you didn't vote the last time. Dear colleagues, let's show the whole country an example. That decentralization should take place so that the local authorities go to a medical university, arrange with the students, give them housing, give them a salary to work there. Can you imagine giving your child to a doctor who works under duress? Dear colleagues, there is no such thing anymore. So let's put a dot in this shameful practice today when we force our children to work. And one more thing is very important. Some say, "But they're learning at the expense of the state." Yes, at the expense of the state, but at the expense of the state, everyone's learning, but the person's going, he's working, and he's paying for the tax returns. I mean, education invests in a person, and then a person answers with his job. But forced labor is shameful. And so I very much ask all of you, despite our political differences, to vote in favour and to show that we really respect education and respect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Are they willing to speak? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn two on for, two on against. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn two for, two for against, colleagues. It's a bill that's supported by everyone, but whether they're willing to speak. I'm the only one asking to be very concise, colleagues. Very delicate. Please Sobolev Sergei, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u196	Goddan’s request to pass on to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u197	The next one is Taras Dmitrovitch's Cremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u198	Ruslan Bogdan, Fatherland faction. We have before us a bill that annuls such a disgraceful legacy. A disgraceful legacy of the Soviet past as a distribution of graduates. As early as 1996, the Constitution guaranteed free higher education. Free is one that does not follow any payment in any form, including in the form of a duty to work a certain amount of time at the distribution. That's why the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u199	Teras Dmitrovich’s flint. And thank you for your flexibility. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u200	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would like to point out to our colleagues that this bill is prepared by the full membership of the Committee on Science and Education. We really want to create and create great conditions for our graduates. On the other hand, we open locks for local governments to create the right conditions for our young graduates in terms of giving and creating comfortable conditions during their first job. Therefore, I appeal to the heads of local governments, executives and representatives of the united territorial communities to make all the necessary authorizations and decisions in order to put in place in the budget for the following year adequate funds to create conditions for the minor graduates of educational institutions, medical institutions, and so forth. The People's Front faction votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u201	Thank you. Kishkar Paul. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u202	Please give it to Mikola Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, this bill was born out of practice, it comes from a specific practice of virtually all of the country's higher education institutions, established all types. This rule, which was laid down in this bill, has long needed regulation, it has posed problems for a large number of graduates, it has posed problems for higher education and today's harmonization, it will be the next step towards the adoption of modern education in our country. I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u204	Thank you. The closing statement will be now, please come into the hall. The closing statement is given by Dobrenkov Igor Shurma. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u205	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd like to go to all the people who are going to press the green "for" button today. Today, it's not about education and science, it's not about higher education, it's about health and the life of the population, which is what medical workers are responsible for, which means doctors and nurses. And you know today that there are 40,000 doctors, 20,000 doctors and 20,000 nurses missing in Ukraine? Do you know that today the State knows about the problems of providing medical care in rural areas and areas, about the lack of such teachers, doctors? And you know, every year, the state is funding 10 billion dollars to train 27,000 doctors and 45,000 medical staff, at least, more, and the state has both a legal and a moral right to direct those young professionals to work where there is no doctor today. We want to do, you know, that kind of know-how in Ukrainian -- the state pays for the training, and you go and work. And today those who care for their village, you know that none of the graduates will go to the village alone, no one. Where will you find them? And you know that in Poland today there are tens of thousands of doctors missing, and in Sweden there are no radiologists, and everyone opens the door and simplifies the nostration of diplomas, and they say, come from Ukraine. It turns out that Ukraine is preparing experts for abroad, that Ukraine is preparing professionals for district centers, and it has no right to direct them where they are needed. This bill may be useful and necessary if people pay for their training, not for the state. Run the funding scheme for school loans, then you can vote in favour. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u206	Thank you, Your Honor. We finish the discussion, we move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote, please. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the Employment of Graduates (number 3312-d) as a basis. The committee gave me a proposal as a whole. I'm putting it as a basis for the committee's proposal as a whole. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[13:51:23]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to listen to me for a moment. Colleagues, may I have your attention? Voting will now be extremely important. Colleagues, in five minutes, I will put to the vote a number of bills requiring factions to be included in the agenda for the decision. Among them will be a bill that signifies the heads of all factions, 5050. Among them will be Bill 5067 of the Anti-Rayder. Among them will be Bill 5123, 4727. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I remind you, according to the Rules, we have to put the day session in order in the morning to look into it after lunch, colleagues. Attention, I have the latest drafts coming up, but in five minutes, we're going to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Now we're going to consider a very short simple bill, until these bills are passed, which is next in order of the day, which is supported by all factions, there's almost no amendment. That's two minutes it'll take, 3504. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. I'd like to invite the rapporteur, Sumar Victoria Petrovna, from the committee. Please, it's very delicate. After that, we will move on to the vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Mrs. Victoria, please, it's very brief. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! The draft for second reading is prepared by the committee. We've had 11 amendments. It's about universal software. We're changing the order of its formation. And in this way, we're standardizing our own conditions for a better existence today of Ukrainian television. Because we have a whole range of preferences today to cable operators. But we don't create the conditions for people who create content for journalists, for editors, for TV channels, for radio stations. That's what the bill is all about. I'm ready to make amends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the corrections that have been made have been taken into account. And I think we can move on, this is a generalized bill, to a vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending the law of Ukraine. Do you have any papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u209	Yes, there are adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u210	Excuse me, excuse me. I've got it, all supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u211	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u212	Please, Danchenko, one minute. But it's very brief, please, Mr. Danchenko. One minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u213	Subparagraph 2 of paragraph 1 of the section of the bill should be supplemented by this sentence: “The selected programmes are not mandatory for software providers who provide software services throughout Ukraine according to the license.”
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u214	Committee comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u215	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u216	The committee suggested that the amendment should be rejected. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u217	Thank you, colleagues. If so, do you insist on voting? Danchenko insists on voting? Yeah, what's the readout, what's the number? Vika, what's the editing number?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u218	This is the second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u219	Who supports amendment number two, please vote, colleagues. Please vote on who supports this. It's a committee against it. [[13:55.]] For-191 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Colleagues, discussion is over. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (No. 3504) in the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean, raise your hands, who's got the papers? Please, Lechchenko, one minute. Please, last update. Lechenko, one minute. There is, isn't there? Okay. 5 revisions. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u220	All private television channels in Ukraine actually belong to a few people, the largest channels that show a powerful monopolization of the sector. Allowing television channels to choose whether to be included in a universal package of rights or not will allow them to abuse their monopoly on the market, excessive increases in payments by the legal service provider for the benefit of private broadcasters. And these additional cost providers, in turn, will be translated on the shoulders of all television viewers. The bill declares pluralism of information and access to it by consumers. At the same time, an increase in television fees will result in the refusal of consumers to TV or the search for ways to minimize such costs. Such a state of affairs will not contribute to pluralism and the availability of information. We would also like to recall that the Social Television in Ukraine is not formed and that its reference in the bill is foreseen and will not ensure pluralism and availability of information. Appropriately, the proposal to remove these channels from the universal service package is absolutely lobbyist and incorrect, aimed at translating the cost to ordinary television viewers. I urge you to take this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u221	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u222	This is clearly a European norm, this is how it works, as we suggest, in all countries of Europe. And in order for them to belong to all oligarchs, we actually propose this standard. Thank you. The committee turned it down. I propose to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u223	It's a committee against it. I'm betting on the vote number five. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:57:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Colleagues, last correction. One minute, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Opanasenko, 7 o'clock. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, our amendment number seven. In fact, if you look at this law, this is the main task of taking money from a quarter of the population for free content. For. The cable station is about 4 million. Count about 10 bracelets per month-- that's half a yard for our oligarchic channels. You decide, but it's a complete nonsense to support the inefficient business of our oligarchs at the expense of simple consumers. Please support the 7th amendment, it will remove the possibility of discriminating cable service users, because if the content is distributed via a satellite, via air free of charge, it cannot be paid through a cable network. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u225	Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u226	Well, that's certainly not the interest of cable operators whose market is unfortunately larger than the TV market. People who make content today can't get the money for it while they get the money from those who provide technical conditions. These are completely abnormal conditions. It's a committee against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support Amendment 7, the committee against it, please vote on who supports the 7th amendment. [[13:58:51]] For-151 Correction not accepted. Colleagues, this bill. Dear colleagues, I'm about to make this amendment, Mr. Yuri. We have very important laws, and we can't get into them right now. Mr. Yuri, please, very concisely, very concisely. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u228	Thank you. Well, first of all, Mr. Chairman, I'm acting under the Rules. Under the Rules, there is an obligation to amend. Similarly, according to the previous law, which you were obliged to put exclusively in the first reading, because I came to you and told you officially that I reject acceptance as a whole. But you broke the Rules and put them in general. According to this, the decision will be made accordingly. That's what I'm talking about. It's about the same question that I said before. I'd just like to report to the person who's reporting on that, in fact, in Western Europe, there's not one social channel in free services, but between 5 and 10 in different countries. Do not tell people lies openly. You will now suggest putting in the cheapest package exclusively social speech that does not exist in Ukraine, is not viewed, is not interesting, is not known when it comes. Instead, all the other channels you're offering to raise much more expensive services, thereby limiting people's access to information, even more than they are now limited. So I'm asking you to delete this rule from this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u229	Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u230	Well, you don't have to cheat, because what's financed by the budget has to be given for free, and then it's all going to be a social package that's negotiated for other resources. You don't have to say that right now and scare people. It's actually about the distribution of revenue between cables and television channels, and the ability of television channels to make contracts, essentially like the cost of intellectual property. Let's respect intellectual property, not just iron, after all. Against the support of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, who supports Amendment No. 9? It's a committee against it. Please vote on who supports it. Please vote. [[14:01:17]] For 113 The decision is not made. Colleagues, we're done talking, please take up jobs. Colleagues, this bill is a great work by a committee that's been preparing for a long time, and it's been a long time since the committees called for us to accept it today after the long work of the committee and all the factions. It is a unified bill that is actually supported by representatives of all factions. I ask you, colleagues, to vote now, please support the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (2504) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote, please support. [[14:02:10]] For 290 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda so that we can look at the issues after lunch. Colleagues, very important questions. Question one: Continue the moratorium on earth. We have three bills. Question two: An anti-rider bill without discussion. Society, just the vote, no discussion, just the inclusion of the day in order to make a decision so that we can consider it after lunch. I'll bet. So there are three bills that provide a solution to the Moratorium issue. Number one: 4727, National Deputy Lazko. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[14:03:11]] For 277 Decision taken. The following is 5123 by Timoshenko and 5123-1 by Burbak, Berezuk, Green. This is an alternative, we're voting together: 5123 and 5123-1. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote, colleagues. Yeah, yeah. Please vote, stand by: 5123 and 5123-1. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making process. [[14:03:49]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. After lunch, we'll go over to him. Next is the bill, it's 5067. Colleagues, I very much ask you carefully, this is an anti-rider law, it needs immediate adoption by farmers. Yesterday, I was considered on a committee. Sold, Ivanchuk is asked to support and even consider it immediately. 5067: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:04:34]] For 295 Decision taken. Next, there's two left. There's only two, we're going to now consider, attention, 5050, a bill signed by all the heads of factions on the withdrawal of taxation from the churches. 5050 please vote, please support, inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. [[14:05:09]] For 252 Copy that, colleagues. And last, but it will only stand for inclusion in the agenda. It's not the order of the day for making a decision. We all know this is a special confiscation. He will stand without consideration today. Society, just in order of the day session of the week, not today, not today. Thus, 5,142 amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of income to an unwarranted State. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:05:56]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, me. Attention, colleagues, colleagues! I'm asking everyone to stay put, colleagues. There's a request from the sales committee and Ivanchuk that we consider 5067 right now. If there's the general will of the hall, I'll do it. Is there the general will of the hall? Will you support me, colleagues? So, colleagues, I'm betting on 5067 and I'm asking you to support the review of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please support. It's a very simple and very important bill. Please support me. [[14:06:54]] For 224 Mrs. Oksana, please be very brief. I invite you to the report. Short-term procedure. Very short. Is Oxana or Ivanchuk one of you? Oksana Sold, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, in fact this bill awaits thousands and thousands of people, those people who have already taken property, those people who don't even know what's happening to their property. In this bill, we resolve issues that protect property and societies, and various other associations, businesses, individuals, and corporate rights, and real estate, property. We foresee this bill that, first of all, it is notional to verify all the changes that are made to the charters of societies that are made with regard to the management of societies or statutory funds. We anticipate the need for notarial registration of applications for changes to the register in the event that the notary took notarial action on the same day so that the raiders could not play at the time of registration and at the time of the contract. For the first time in Ukraine, we introduce a rule that the registrar is obliged to inform each owner of any property of what is a claim, an application for change, information on its property in the register in a mandatory manner. And we give owners the right to suspend registration for 10 days in case the owner realizes that such registration is claimed, but it's not his initiative. We're allowing 60 days to sue for registration. I ask you very much to support this bill, because without it there can be no investment or economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u233	Thank you. Please, Mr. Andrew Ivanchuk, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u234	According to the report, please, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Very short, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u235	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, well, first of all, I would like to thank all the representatives of all the MPs and groups, the non-fractional MPs who have joined in writing this bill. I want to thank the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice. I want to thank the experts of the Apparatus and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But to apologize to Ukrainian people for the entire Supreme Council that we have been preparing this bill for almost four months, and for the Ukrainian business. I also want to say that this is not the last bill we're going to adopt with you to stop the raiding in our country. Yesterday, the Committee on Economic Policy considered Bill No. 5067, introduced by the People's Deputies, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the exception of amendments to the Act on Executive Conduct, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-06-m0.u236	I want us to understand why this bill is important quickly. Because raiding is taking place today and now in the fields, so we have to act quickly as the highest legislative body. We can't stretch. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal: 5067 draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (to improve the state registration of real estate rights and the protection of property rights) as a basis and as a whole. 5067. Please vote. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general, please support. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[14:10:57]] For 271 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I'm assigning the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations an urgent consideration of the bills that we've just included in the agenda so that we can consider it at the evening plenary meeting: 4727, 5123, 5123-1. And the Jujanina Committee is 5050 on the collection of taxes from churches. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 4:00, I ask you all to gather to continue our work. Thank you for your hard work. Thank you.
