ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, 16 hours. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the registration for the evening session. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are about to continue our work. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. Dear colleagues, as long as the people's deputies come along, I will explain to you the logic of our work according to the order of the day. I beg of you, dear fellows. Attention. Listen to me for two minutes. If it is possible to stop the discussion for one minute. Now look at the bill on the financing of the Central Electoral Commission's expenditure. We put it in the agenda and we can start with it. Then we have daily bills to provide organizational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. As the authors told me, all the factions that are in the room are supporting and adhering to this bill. Then the question of the implementation of the United Nations Security Council resolution of July 20, 15th, on a common comprehensive plan of action for the sector-specific sanctions. The ORC decision is also, as I was told, supported by everyone. The question is only in respectable colleagues, will we be enough in the hall so that we can vote. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Each of these decisions is extremely important for the functioning of the State, for the functioning of the authorities, and for the institutions of power. I very much ask all the deputies to come to the solution with understanding and to maximize their mobility for work. Dear colleagues, so I've explained to you the logic of our actions, you know all the bills, and obviously everyone supports them. And that's why I'm asking you to register with the National Deputies right now. Dear colleagues, please register to attend the evening meeting. Please register, colleagues. [[16:07:38]] 322 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. First, I will read two announcements that came to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For the development of the transport sector of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Solvar Ruslan Mikolayovich, was elected head of this association. Next. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Transformation of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Kozachenko Leonid Petrovich and Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. I welcome the heads of the MPs. And, dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (as regards the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) number 4865. I hope everyone understands the importance and importance of making this decision in order for the elections to take place and for the authorities to work. And I, colleagues, urge you to support his proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, summary procedure supported? Is the reduced procedure supported? Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. And I ask you to support the consideration of the simplified procedure. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Please, we're taking up jobs. So I'm voting on a reduced procedure for draft law 4865. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[16:10:26]] For-141 I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues, please mobilize as much as possible, please enter the hall, take up jobs. Colleagues, please support, this question is equally important for everyone, for all factions, regardless of whether they are in opposition or whether they are in coalition. Please, colleagues, I'll put it again, if there's no room will, we'll move on to the full procedure. I once again put to the vote a motion for a brief motion for a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (as regards the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) number 4865. Dear colleagues, may I have your vote, summary procedure 4865. Please vote colleagues, please support. [[16:11:47]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Rapporteur of Ukraine, Alekseiev Sergey Olegovich. From the place of Alekseus Sergey Olegovich. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u2	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The President-in-Office, Your Honor, is proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (for the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) (registration number 4865). The adoption of the bill is due to the appointment by the Central Election Commission of the interim elections of Ukraine's national deputies in seven one-member constituencies on 17 July 2016. Ukraine’s State Budget Act to ensure the preparation and conduct of such elections did not provide for sufficient funding, according to the CEC. I want to give you some indicators. The number of one-maned constituencies has increased, budgeted for 4, now 7 of them. The number of polling stations to one thousand 142 has increased, with 600 polling stations. In fact, there were 376 candidates for the National Deputies registered, and 175 candidates for the National Deputies were budgeted. In this way it is necessary to provide an additional funding amounting to 12.5 million dollars. In addition to the above, additional funding is also required for the functioning of the electoral register, namely, to ensure that local elections are held in 2016, public procurement of services from printing services used by electoral authorities, which cost 5 million 303,000 dollars. To ensure the operation of database servers and the protection of processing information, which is 9 million 952 thousand $800. Also in connection with the adoption of the Law on State Service, additional funding requires a substantial change in the conditions of payment for members of the CLTC and for coworkers of the CLTC. And you need to increase to 4 million dollars. This funding is proposed at the expense of other current expenditures of the CLTC, i.e. through the redistribution of funds. In summary, for intermediate elections in one-maned districts, local elections, and security.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u4	. and ensuring the proper functioning of the National Electoral Register is proposed to increase the amount of government budget expenditure by a total of 27 million 755,000 800 dollars. In its conclusion of 06.07.2016, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office noted that the decision on the bill should be taken in the light of the conclusions of the government. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has drawn an expert conclusion to this bill, which is generally agreed upon, but is proposed to take another source of revenue increase, such as the Administrative Assembly for the conduct of the national registration of legal persons, natural persons and public formations. By its decisions, the Professional Committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis and in general, taking into account the Ministry of Finance’s proposals. Dear colleagues, I ask that this bill be adopted on the basis and in general, by changing the source of such expenditure from the state budget from the rent to the use of natural gas to the administrative assembly for the conduct of the national registration of legal persons, natural persons of entrepreneurs and public formations, and by entrusting the committee of profile and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to carry out technical, legal and editorial work in preparing the text of the law for signature. Colleagues, please support this bill, otherwise we don't have enough funding for the election, and the midterm elections may fail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u5	Thank you for the report. I would like you to see the report of National Deputy Alexander Gorbunov, head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u6	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, of the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on 7 July, considered the bill at number 4865. The bill provides for an increase of 27.8 million dollars in the expenditure of the State budget for the Central Electoral Commission, which will primarily allow the preparation and holding of the interim elections of Ukraine's national deputies on 17 July 2016 in seven one-member constituencies and the full functioning of the National Electoral Register. The source of additional expenditure is proposed to determine the increase in the revenue plan of the general budget of the State budget, based on the rent on the use of nadrama and natural gas. The source is at risk of achieving an increased annual plan, as also pointed out by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and Minfin. In view of the above, Minfin suggested replacing the proposed source with the administrative congregation for the conduct of the national registration of legal persons, natural persons of entrepreneurs, and social formations. This proposal was supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs. In view of the above, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law No. 4865 to adopt, on a basis and as a whole, as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee in its letter of conclusion to this bill and relating to the need to take into account Minfin's proposals for the replacement of the source of additional expenditure made by editorial and technical legal clarifications and budgetary balance. The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council in drafting such a law, should it be adopted, should it be provided with the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the bill and the additions thereto. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to record two for two for one, two for the other, please. Please, Stashuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u8	I ask you to pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u9	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we definitely have to support this bill, because without it to hold elections properly, it will be very difficult to give the State the right to vote by these seven districts, without this law. But I want to tell you that this money is actually going to be thrown out in the wind, let's speak honestly. Without changing the electoral legislation to say that we have the opportunity to hold fair elections, today it will be a lie. Because the level of falsification that we see today in these seven districts tells us that the will of the community there will be clearly distorted by the crazy funds that today are being invested by the mayoral candidates in these districts, by the frenzy of the Greek spending on other material aids that are destroying themselves, the fact and the very function of the electoral process in these districts. That is why, of course, I recognize that it is the duty of the Ukrainian State to hold elections there, but I urge all national deputies to return to the question of changing electoral legislation in part of the open electoral lists, as we promised the Ukrainian people, and as recorded in the Coalition Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. But I would still ask that we don't urge us not to allocate these funds right now and to set aside a few questions. The point is, it's our debt to you. When we formed the state budget for 2016, we didn't anticipate such a possibility that it might be necessary to hold interim elections in 7 districts. And they put in the budget money to hold the midterm election of no more than four one-maned constituencies. But life has made adjustments. And in view of these circumstances, no one but us can correct his or her mistake. It's about simple things. The Central Election Commission is only the main cost manager. It's not the Central Electoral Commission's money, I would ask you not to change the concept now. Through the Central Election Commission of the State Treasury, they pass through the District Election Commissions and then to the District Election Commissions. The costs that we hope today, we will vote and allocate, we will go to print ballots and vote in these districts; we will print protocols and establish the results of the elections in these districts; we will take security measures both to keep the ballots until the day of the vote and to continue transporting the protocols safely to the District and Central Electoral Commission. And in exchange for the salaries of the members of the electoral boards, so that they don't happen on the last day, given the lack of funds, they just don't come to work or leave their jobs. Guys, there's no politics here. We are obliged because we are the only body that can make appropriate changes to the state budget, take the right step today and make that decision. If we don't make that decision today, then. And if the President's signature doesn't take place in the near future, then there's no point in making such decisions, because you know that the election will take place in three days. So please, this is one of the issues that does not cause serious discussion, and no political power has expressed its position against such a decision. Let's take it today, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u12	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u13	What is more, everyone, without exception, has put out candidates in these districts, and I think all interested in having these elections take place. And let the strong win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u14	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word, Alexandra Kugel. But in three minutes, the decision will be made. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that a decision-making process is about to take place, to prepare. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the session room. And now I'm giving my word from Fatherland, Cugel Alexander Volodymyr. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u15	I'm very supportive of Mr. Knazevitch's words, but I have a question. For over a month now, the President has not signed the law we were going to be with you to reform the courts. And then again, you say today, he's definitely going to sign for CBC. Every year you and I have both the election and the expense. Learn, plan, and plan. And secondly, I have a question, Mr. Parovia. Both the reporter and the author stressed that the registration assembly would be removed from public organizations and so on, that Oxana and I had taken off the issue. Give me a clear answer. Will these changes be made to the law, and will the registration agencies pay the registration fee again? Are you distributing money that is currently paid by industry and entrepreneurs alone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u16	Thank you. To answer that question, I invite the author of the bill to answer that question. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. And another minute, Alekseiev Sergey Olegovich. Please give an answer to Alexandra Kugel's question. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u17	It refers only to the registration congregation, which is provided for by the legislation in force. This is the coming that is predicted by the current legislation, no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I just want to make a point. Authorities should work independently of political debates. Two and a half years ago, we were here protecting the Supreme Council during the war for it to work. Because the institutions of power have to work independently of what's going on around and inside. I don't have any interest in any of those districts where there's a temporary election today. I don't know what political candidates go for. I don't know who's gonna win, and I don't know what sociology is. I know one thing, when the state works, it has to be able to make decisions. An inability to make decisions is called into question by the functioning of a government mechanism. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and I'm asking everyone to vote in favour of this decision now. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I'm going to put you on a rating vote if there's no objection to the hall so we can see the mobilisation capacity of the hall. I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the vote. And please vote all factions regardless of political positions, please take part in the rating vote. Please, colleagues, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:26:22]] For 218. Six votes missing. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'd like the secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. And please add a few more votes from the factions that are in the hall. Colleagues, please. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and take part in the vote. I see all the political factions, they support. I see everyone who's in the room is backing up. We just need to mobilize, colleagues. I'm asking you to mobilize. Add a few more votes, John, literally add a few votes and we can make a decision. So I'd like you to prepare. Oksana, Oksana in the hall, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (increasing the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) (number 4865) on the proposal of the Committee, this bill is also on the basis of the Committee's proposals as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote 4865 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please. [[16:28:17]] For 238. 238, yes. Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. And welcome to the profile committee. Attention! Colleagues, don't leave. I will now put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda for the decision of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care for orphans and children deprived of parental care. I was told that all the factions supported the bill. Dear colleagues, I'm counting on all of us to put it in the agenda and make a decision. Please don't leave, colleagues. There's support for all factions. That's true, isn't it? That's what they told me. Colleagues, please take your jobs and support me. And I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda for the decision to move immediately to its consideration, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care (4784). If you support this decision, please vote on your colleagues. Please vote, please support, we vote colleagues. [[16:29:50]] For 210 210. Colleagues! I'll ask you to mobilize. And by the way, I want to say that we have the next 4831 and 4831-1 and we're going to vote with each other in support. I very much ask those factions that did not vote in favour of the decision. And I'm sure the colleagues will support them when it's 4831. I'm counting on you to have mutual support and mutual understanding. Mrs. Yuri, please support this bill. Support 4831. I see. Please, stand up. Colleagues! Mr. Jaroslav, I ask you to vote if I may. Once again, I propose the inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisationally legal social protection conditions for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Colleagues, let us all unite and support this decision. Who will support this decision to be included in the agenda for decision-making, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:31:24]] For 223 Three votes of a colleague. Three votes. I'd like to point out to you that I can put in the agenda a few times. I'm asking you not to meet Kaplin, and I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, three votes. Put it in? Three votes, colleagues. Please, colleagues, three votes. I see my hands up, I see they're not there yet. Please enter the hall and take your seats. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Did you come into the hall, colleagues, everyone? Ninth, please. And I put it again, colleagues, because it's a question of social protection for children with disabilities -- it's not a political issue. And I ask again to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the provision of institutional and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Please support all children and children with disabilities. Please vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision 4784. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. Please vote. Vote. [[16:32:56]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you for your understanding and thank you for your support. And I propose that we now support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the reduced procedure. [[16:33:25]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please. Let Mr. Arthur into the rostrum. Mr. Arthur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u19	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In our country, almost 7,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care are living in different types of residential institutions. Sadly, for various reasons (a.k., health), most of them have virtually no chance of being adopted or adopted in another form of family education. In doing so, living in a residential institution often does not contribute to the preparation of such children for further personal life, the determination and development of their abilities, and the realization of their interests in professional self - determination. As a result, children grow up unprepared outside the institution and enter adult life without the necessary social skills and skills, leading an associative life - style. With a view to resolving the above-mentioned problem, the Ukrainian President introduced a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care (registration No. 4784). The bill proposes the introduction of instruction as one of the modern forms of work with children who are raised in boarding schools. A full - time teacher can be a qualified adult who has been trained and has made an agreement on mentoring with the administration of the institution, which is entrusted with the responsibility of the caregiver and the caregiver of the child. In addition, the draft law provides a mechanism to ensure respect for the rights and interests of children over whom guidance is given. For example, it is the responsibility of a counselor to violate the child’s rights and legal interests, to harm him, and to control his child’s affairs. Dear colleagues, the legislative settlement of the above-mentioned issues will allow for the strengthening of guarantees of the rights and interests of orphans and children deprived of parental care' who live in a residential institution and will help prepare them for their own lives. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u20	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u21	In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions, the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, on mentoring orphans and children deprived of parental care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u22	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Sporis Ivan Dmitrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u23	Honorable national MPs, the honorable presidency, have indeed just heard Arthur Gerasimov and today should unite us. Because when it comes to child orphans, about their social protection, we all have to be united and vote all unanimously. Because we know very well about children who are raised in boarding schools, who are not protected, what their fate is after this boarding school. And we know perfectly well that more than half of them go to jail. So I'd like you and I to look at this bill consciously today, because it proposes to define this kind of activity for orphans and children deprived of parental care as a guide, which means voluntary free mentoring for children who live in orphanages and children who are deprived of parental care for individual support and help in preparing for their own lives. And I think the mentors are and were, but we have to legitimize them, legitimize them to be at the state level. Supports this bill by the Ministry of Social Policy. Ministry of Finance. I think because there is a partial impact on the spending of the budget, but on the small part, and so I think that when we discuss the project, the members of our committee supported and introduced the bill in order to promote better integration of children into social life, we really have to support the bill. Therefore, as a result of the committee’s consideration, it was up to us to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading to adopt a bill on the basis of which the bill really, as I said, should unite us all, for today the fate of defenseless children is decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u24	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please, Your Honor. Happy Natalia Vasilovna from the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u25	Please pass the word to Captain Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I am really asking your attention, to concentrate, and to support this bill. By educating orphans, I've actually been doing this since I was 16 years old, and I understand this very well. And really, mentors have always, always specialized social organizations have helped different institutions, helped socialize orphans, because that's what happened, because from the Soviet Union we have education for these children a little bit behind civilized principles. In fact, these children are separated from other children who have a family and have the opportunity to be raised in a family. And first of all, I ask you to support this bill. And I'm talking to the authors about the possibility of simplifying the motion for termination of the mentoring contract, because we've personally encountered the abuse of this instrument, especially when it's legalized. So I propose to simplify the possibility and allow institutions to apply for a suit, and to support all those organizations, especially the public organizations that have been doing this activity for the past 10 years, perhaps 15 years, and to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u27	Thank you very much. Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u28	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, what do we see in the hall today? A bill on the initiative of the President of Ukraine is under consideration. Attention is zero in the Parliamentary Hall of Chaos. What do we see next? Mr. Herasimov is speaking at the Parliamentary Chamber of Representatives of the President in Parliament - attention is zero. Third. Dear colleagues, what do we see? There's a bill on social protection for orphans -- zero in Parliament. Dear colleagues, according to the bill. Let's support this bill together. Of course, he is imperfect, but we can work on his second reading. But what I'm saying is that such mentoring institutions really do exist and will exist, even if we don't adopt this bill today and we don't approve it later on in the second reading. But the President has addressed this issue today, because we have to ensure the social rights and guarantees of orphans at the legislative level. You're here now, there's no one who can hear anyone now who's speaking, of course, someone's kids are going to London, but these orphans are going to have to go to the street without education, without guarantees, without anything. So, dear fellows, we need to get together now. If you're lying down, sitting down or working, we should be supporting our Ukrainian children together right now. And if anyone cares, don't let him vote. But, colleagues, we're going to adopt and work on the second reading, and together we're going to make this institution work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in three minutes there will be a vote and factions' heads to invite deputies to the Chamber. And now I'm giving the word from the Opposition Block to Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u30	Regrettably, according to a beautiful phrase, for a beautiful purpose, there are no clear mechanisms to solve this problem. In my 10 years of professional activity, I know really a lot of teachers of people who devoted themselves to the heart of an orphan child. At the same time, this law essentially makes it worse for a child who is an orphan, a child who is deprived of parental care. Only a few positions of law itself that are dangerous. First, permission to communicate with a teacher is given by the director of the facility, as we reinforce it. So the President on one side declares the purpose of reforming the internet, and on the other hand, the law proposes to strengthen the director of the internal institution. The law does not determine who is responsible for the child’s life and health when communicating with the teacher. Thus, the standards of this law endanger the life and health of an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care. Inseparable functions between the social services centers of the family, the children and the young and the services of the children, rather than agreeing with the care and care body, which is a legislative nonsense, it will not be possible to do so. In general, if we're talking about mentoring, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the functions of each central authority, the authority. And one more thing. I want to address both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Honourable President of Ukraine. Seven months ago, a law was passed that defined the category of child victims of armed conflict. There's no cabinet of ministers for seven months. The law was about protective families — nothing has been done by the Cabinet of Ministers. Over a year more than half the organs of care and care.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u31	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u32	In a year more than half of the district government administrations, the city councils did not have an orphan, a child deprived of parental care. And, Your Honor, Mr. Arthur, all the 7,000 children you've talked about have the opportunity to be placed within the family if they are involved in specific care and care bodies such as the RDA. They've been idle for the past year. And unfortunately, this law is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u33	10 seconds, but really 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u34	Yeah. And unfortunately, this law does not apply to children with disabilities, because there are clearly defined institutions for orphans deprived of parental care. And they're gone, they're gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u35	Mr. Yuri, learn to concentrate your time on the performance. Excuse me, please. Lock it. Lock-in, Gerasimov. And let's move on to making a decision. One minute. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Arthur. Turn on the microphone. Gerasimov Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, should we help orphans? That's not even a question for me. I sincerely believe that the whole Parliament must unite and adopt this law as a basis. But I really do realize that the question is very difficult. It needs a hard work in Parliament. So today, we ask everyone to unite and vote on the basis that, in preparing for the second reading, we discuss in detail all of the norms, very carefully consider the issue of this law, which may cause discussions between different factions, decide them, and in the second reading prepare a fully discussed law without any negative moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. I am also convinced that this is the basis and discussion for the second reading so that we can be able to identify and add all the amendments during the discussion. But when we accept it, we open the way for us to study the problem and to make a decision about it. Dear colleagues! I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. I'm asking you to take your jobs. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organizational and legal conditions, the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, on the basis of mentoring orphans and children deprived of parental care. Colleagues, please vote this bill as a basis. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote and support. [[16:48:33]] For 231 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Welcome to the committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to remain seated. Now I'm going to propose to you the following bills that stand. There is Bill 4825, which applies to our international obligations. Colleagues, our international obligations. And there is also a request that he be included in the agenda of the day session. This is a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on May 20th to implement the United Nations Security Council resolution of July 20, 15. Dear colleagues who support the inclusion of the day session for decision 4825, please vote. Please, colleagues, 4825, include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Approval of the decision of the GNP. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:49:52]] For 206 206, colleagues. What do you suggest? Colleagues, look, colleagues, I'll bet, we'll see where we have the potential. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. I was told that the 4733 bill is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving urban activities. He's on the list. Perhaps there will be a complete unification of the hall. 4733-1 and 4733-2. I'm going to put it to a vote and ask you to mobilize, and I'm going to show you if there's room will to put it in the order of the day session. Who supports the inclusion of a day-to-day session in order to decide on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of urban activities, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the session and decision-making. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:51:10]] For 227 We can move on to his consideration now, colleagues. Let me ask you all the other questions and let's get to the point right now. Colleagues, pay attention, please. We'll just see what kind of bills we can accept right now. Draft Order amending Chapter I of the Ukraine Supreme Council Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016. Several deputies, such as members from Drogobitch, were in charge of the bill. Because it's about marking 750 years from the day Drogobych was created. Perhaps this bill will unite everyone in the hall. I'll put it to the vote and ask you to mobilize, colleagues, and answer that question. So whoever supports the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making session is a very simple draft of the Amendment Order to Chapter and Appendix to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Celebration of Memorial Dates, Jubilee in 2016", which supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, please vote. Please, colleagues, we have a vote of 4828. Please. [[16:52:30.]] For 203 203 -- no votes for now. Colleagues, and the next one, which is fine in the daytime. This is a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the High Service Commission. This sounded like the Conciliation Council. This is a requirement of public structures. This is a global commitment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I also ask that we include him in the agenda for the decision-making session. And please, colleagues, unite and support. We may be able to unify the hall by means of it. And I'm asking you to hold consultations, maybe more deputies will give their votes. So I'm putting a motion for a vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the High Service Commission. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:53:44]] For 196 196 – a.k.a. I'll go to him. Please include the factions. The factions, please show me. Dear colleagues, any faction can now resolve this issue. Any faction of those who don't vote now can solve that question. Do we have a chance, Mrs. Alona? I'll put my colleagues back together. I would like to point out once again that this is our commitment, this is the position of the Supreme Council, our participation in the formation of a higher body of public service. This is not a matter of politics, today all questions are united, governmental issues. I'll put her back together. It's allowed to be re-set by regulation. I ask you to vote again. And I'm going to read who voted, "Peter Poshenko's Block" - 104, "The People's Front" - 62, "The Opposition Block" - 0, "The Self-Help" - 9, "The Rebirth" - 0, "The Fatherland" - 3, "The will of the people" - 4, "The will of the people" - 13. I feel like I have a chance to accept this right now. Once again, I propose to include in the decision-making agenda a draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission on matters of the higher public service corps (4459). Colleagues, please at least partially support me, please vote for my colleagues. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please vote. [[16:55:35]] For a hundred and The situation is not changing. 192. Alana, we're not discussing this right now, we're including. Or you can convince the faction maybe if you convince the faction. The next one that we have is from the urgent ones that were. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the reorganization of social insurance funds and their state registration, 4831 and 4831-1. The last time he won was without two votes. If there is, there will be the will of the hall, and we can vote on it for colleagues. I ask you to take part in the vote and ask for your vote to determine whether you are willing to discuss it. Who will support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making (4831) and (4831-1), please vote. You don't support it, do you? Please vote. Please vote (4831) for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Vote. [[16:56:56]] For 201 Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is a heavy vote and a hard work for Parliament. I was approached by representatives and drafters of the bill concerning the draft Order amending Chapter I of the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee. I was informed that some factions had changed their position and were willing to vote. And if that's the case, I'm going to put it again, and I'm going to ask you to mobilize the hall. Especially Drogobych's representation, please mobilize the hall, support Drogobic and Drogobic, colleagues. 4828 is the observance of the Memorial dates and the Jubilee. A question that has been fully supported by all factions and groups. Let us unite at least around this and demonstrate the ability to make decisions. Can we vote? Can we make a decision? Colleagues! So, 4828 is a draft decree amending Chapter I of Appendix I of the First Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Celebration of Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2016. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, colleagues, please vote. Please support the committee. Please take part in the vote together. 4828 is an agenda for decision-making. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:58:58]] For 222 We can, we can include, we can. Please, colleagues, come to the hall. I can see they haven't made it, because we have to be there during the review. Colleagues, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Society, three voices are in the hall, they're just wandering around the hall, not in the workplace. Dear colleagues, don't call me by name. Mr. Yemeni, Mr. Yemeni, that's what I'm talking about. Leonid Jemetz, your card with you, do you vote? That's wise, that's wise. Colleagues, everyone's ready. Mustafa is going to be a success. Please, and I'm putting to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda for the decision a draft decision to amend the chapter and appendix to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016." Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues, we vote jointly and in a coordinated and responsible manner. [[17:00:21]] For 224 Two votes. It's funny, colleagues, and it's sad. The two voices in the room just don't vote, colleagues. I'm asking the people's deputies to take jobs, not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. I can see that not all of them have made it. I very much ask everyone to prepare now, to take up jobs, colleagues. Ready, everybody mobilized? I'm once again putting the agenda of the day session into order for the decision (4828) "To mark the Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016." Please include the agenda for the decision-making session, please vote. Colleagues, please vote in agreement and responsibly. Nadia, everyone's been waiting for you. Is there a card? Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:01:33]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you to the Fatherland faction for the position of responsibility. Now I ask you to vote in favour of this issue for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:02:04]] For-182 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u38	Thank you. Please support the changes to the decision, I'll be as short as possible. It envisions 925 years since the establishment of the town of Drogobic and 400 years since the written mention of the city of Strangers, these two cities. Please support all factions and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u39	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Please, Igor Gus of the People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u40	Colleagues, I believe that these issues need to be supported and not ignored because, in fact, for many cities, such questions are relevant for many subjects. It's a holiday for the people, so please settle down, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u41	Thank you very much. Colleagues, discussion over. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. I saw the MPs come out, I ask you to come into the hall and take jobs, prepare for the decision. Please, colleagues. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Everyone in the hall? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Order amending Chapter I of the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Marking of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016" (No4828) as proposed by the Committee. at the committee's proposal on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Vote, please. [[17:05:03]] For 217 217. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll put once on my way back, colleagues, once. I don't understand what happens in the head of a deputy who comes out of the hall when he knows that one or two votes are missing. Because when their drafts, they call on others. Until we have mutual respect for each other, we will have no respect for society and will not be able to make any decisions, colleagues. It seems that the chairman of the session needs these bills most. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote, for the decision. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2016 (4828). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Wait, there's two men waiting. Yes. Please vote. Please vote: return to vote (4828). [[17:06:40]] For 232 We're back. Now I'm voting again on the draft Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016" (4828) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[17:07:24]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have supported only one of the proposed bills, 4733. I'm going to ask you again, do we have a chance at a higher level of public service? Alona Shkrum, is there a chance? If I put it again, colleagues, can we try it? Is there any objection? I'm once again, colleagues, we have the maximum mobilization now, so I'm going to re-supply. Give Alona Shkrum one minute and I'll put it again. Please, one minute. The question is of great importance. Please, Mrs. Alona, one minute and we'll all be in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u42	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, it's actually not just a chance, it's our constitutional duty as the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit its representative from the Supreme Council to the High Commission of the State Service. Some MPs ask me who it is, I'll point out that it's not a Ukrainian national MP, it's a person who, on qualification requirements, cannot be a national MP, can't be a politician, he has to be a public servant of the unbiased category A, his candidature committee has considered, he's met with most factions. The problem is, yesterday. I'll tell you what his name is, this is Vasilkevich Jaroslav Ivanovich, his employment as head of the Committee's Department of Law, and he's currently appointed as Head of the Secretariat of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, that is, Head of the Public Service Department of category A. He had an interview with most factions, he had an interview with our profile committee. I'm just going to let you know that the commission had already completed the selection of all the other candidates yesterday, and even the public had already been taken to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u43	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u44	The only candidate not submitted to this committee is the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, this does not do us any good, my dear. We have to submit a person, this is our constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put this back into the agenda for the decision-making session. I hope that the words of Alona Skrum have been heard by all the deputies. I hope we can find more support in the hall. I count on the fact that we are able to make decisions where we are expected by a society where the Constitution provides for our direct duty to do. You can vote, colleagues. Once again, I will make a proposal to include in the agenda for decision making (4459). Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, please. [[17:10:19]] For-182 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, last one. We were missing literally a few votes on the sanctions. Friends, sanctions, the decision of the MPO are our international commitments. When we expect our colleagues to support sanctions against Russia, they expect us to make the same responsible decision. When we express (respect) disrespect for our partners in the United States, from the European Union, tomorrow we will have the same disrespect for us. I'll do it again. Nadia, please, Nadia, I'm very sorry. Last vote, please. This is indeed a responsible decision to approve the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to impose sanctions. This is the decision of the National Security and Defence Council. Once again, I would like to ask you to unite, to include in the agenda the decision - making process. So I'm putting -- this is an international commitment -- once again a proposal to put into the agenda for a decision a draft Decision approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council on the implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution of 20 July 2015 on the Common Comprehensive Plan of Action for Sectoral Sanctions. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda for the decision, please vote. Colleagues! Question of sanctions, please vote. Please vote. [[17:11:57]] For 215 10 votes. Come on. Factions, please assemble the deputies now. I give one word for Irina Heratchenko, for the speech. And I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like first of all to address all those present in this room, including those who abuse ether every day when asking questions, and what Ukraine has done by appealing to our international partners for sanctions. So right now, there's a point where each of the national MPs can prove that he's in favor of sanctions. And if someone doesn't vote for this decision now, including the entire factions that have declared a protest here, please don't use the word "sanction" on air afterwards, because now it will be your direct responsibility for not supporting sanctions against the aggressor country. And all those who support the sanctions, I want to thank you. And I ask you to mobilize and really support this issue, which is extremely important in the context that this month the European Union, other democratic countries have supported sanctions against the aggressor country. But let's make sure that Ukraine doesn't take responsibility for each other right now, but vote, every national MP, for sanctioning, for supporting sanctions against the aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u47	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, please. Please, from the Oleg Lazko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, all day long, we've been sitting quietly, no one to interfere, we're blocking, we're sitting in protest. But I have to get up and say it. When you're telling us that we're to blame because we're asking you to investigate corruption, investigate offshores, lower tariffs, lower the price of dragon gas, you can't hear us. When you don't make any decisions, it turns out we're to blame. We're guilty of you robbing people, and we're guilty of the President holding assets in offshores. It's our fault that you set the cosmic price for gas. What else are we guilty of? Was it Putin’s attack, or was it some kind of sin? Do not translate your responsibility. Don't be cowards. The problem is that millions of people have become beggars because of you. Let's make a decision. And you're not demeaning Ukrainians, you're demeaning fellow MPs who are quietly observing our protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u49	Colleagues, discussion over. Fellows, let's remobilize. Colleagues, if we go through, we go to the only project that's been supported, 4733. Fellows, I ask once again, I would like to re-vote the proposal to include in the agenda a day session for the adoption of decision 4825 on the implementation of the United Nations Security Council resolution of 25 July 15th. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote, colleagues, 4825. We were missing literally a few votes. Please vote. [[17:15:47.]] For 209 The decision is not taken. So, respectable. The only bill supporting the inclusion of the agenda is 4733-1 and 4733-2, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of urban activities. We've included it in the agenda to make a decision. Colleagues, we voted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, me. This is the only bill that received support in the hall. There is a proposal to consider it as a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. For the summary, please vote. [[17:17:10]] For a hundred and 150 for. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Construction and Urban Affairs and Housing of Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please. Andreyevsky, will you be performing from the rostrum? Please, Andryevsky Dmitry Josephovich. You demanded that this law be laid down, it was laid down, please report. Please, Dmitri Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u50	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, for laying down this law. And thank you, MPs who supported him in the day-to-day. So I want to say very briefly that this law is an opportunity to change the whole ideology of the work of the organs of the Statebuilding Control. We introduce five categories of construction complexity instead of old standards, we introduce three classes of effects, the consequences of destruction or damage to objects. Thus, we are able to construct almost 80 percent of the objects that are being built today. started building after the appropriate referral, the message to the archbudcontrol authorities. Where, in fact, there goes, let's say, the problem of consenting to build, in fact, we stop any possibility of corruption to prevent people from building. Thus, 80 percent of the building work will take place after the request has been made. Where more serious building control is needed, there will be a building permit instead of the declaration that exists today. So we're going to change the principle of the functioning of the organs of the holding body control. This is a progressive law, and the authors of this law are representatives of virtually all factions. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put it to a vote. Let's see, if we have support in the hall, in order not to spoil it, this consideration. And we can be supportive when we see such support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u51	Dmitry Josephovich, I'll ask you to negotiate with Victor Pinzenic, he'll explain that there's no such form, we'll put it later if there's no votes. Sadly, each issue ends with a decision. I'm just asking you to mobilize the people in the decision-making room. Dear colleagues, I think we all have a chance to adopt this law, because it has the full support of the hall. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u52	Lewchenko "Freedom" 223 district, city of Kiev. Of course, that bill, which was the first to be reported to Andreievsky, is, in a way, I would say, a percentage of 10 improves the situation compared to the current situation in the forgetfulness system. But what's really different is my alternative bill, and why I insist on changing this bill is much better. The main difference is that this project, which was the first to be submitted, does not have the necessary public hearings. In fact, the basic measure of any oblivion and view of the oblivion must be the attitude of the community that lives around the object, to this block. Whether the community will support this building or not will the community support it. Today, there is no such thing in legislation, and because of this, in particular, we have an absolute vacchanal of illegal forgetfulness all over Ukraine, and likewise, this is not in this proposal that has reported the main bill. I have in my bill the obligation of public hearings, that without a positive decision at public hearings involving the inhabitants of the surrounding territories, it will be impossible to begin any construction of the right complexity. Unfortunately, there's no such thing now, and I think it's absolutely necessary to put it in, because without it, it's actually not going to be possible to bring this system into order. Likewise, my bill offers far more fines for trespassing in urban activities than the basic bill suggests, where in many cases fines are ridiculous. Well, fines to builders like, you know, one-and-a-half thousand dollars for a violation, it's just a circus because the builder earns hundreds of millions and he's got, like, two-and-a-half thousand dollars to pay a fine, absolutely no problem. Similarly, the main problem is that there are no minimum criteria to the complexity of the object, or written, it is essentially up to the appropriate body to decide how it will decide and what is the increased complexity or the average complexity, and so on. Please, please, Mr. Chairman, give me 30 seconds, please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u53	Please give 30 seconds to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u54	So in my project, I'm also putting minimum requirements on the corresponding level of complexity. So, for example, if the surface of more than 4 floors is no longer possible, you can say that this is a low level of complexity, and accordingly, it's going to be completely different from the control organs. So I'm convinced that my alternative project is much better in terms of combating illegal construction across Ukraine and I'm asking you to support it. I'm ready to answer any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u55	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Thank you, Mr. Dmitri, for the report. Now, if you'd like to do the recording, two for, two for the counter. Please, colleagues, two for, two for against, please record. Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u56	Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u57	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear national MPs, dear colleagues, first of all, thank you for including us, thank you all for signing this bill with me and our co-authors, so that this bill will be included in the agenda. In fact, a fairly important bill and a major emphasis on it is that, today, more than 80 percent of the people who go to the State Architectural Building Inspectorate, it's about building their own common dwellings, these are villages, towns, cities, and ordinary buildings. Today, there are a number of possibilities for representatives to do what is called corruption by State Architectural Inspection. If we vote in favour of this bill, there will be a normal message for these people, no one will ask for any declarations, no one will ask them for funds so that they can abuse their position of service. This is one of the main reasons why we highly recommend and reactivate this. At the same time, to our colleague, Mr. Yuri, regarding the alternative bill, as co-author of the bill, I am prepared, together with Yuri, to defend those remarks that are primarily about public discussions. Because we know what illegal forgetfulness is, we have a whole series of builders who are unconscionable, and people who are decent, builders who meet all the standards and work in accordance with those state building standards today have to feel, including protection. So, Yuri, you're willing to support the community's understanding of what and how it's built around them. And if they don't want it, it's clear that there shouldn't be such a building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Andreyevsky, from the Peter Prashenko Block, give you the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, thank you for the discussion that is now taking place. What would I like to note and suggest to my colleagues, Mr. Levchenko? Most of the issues that you've violated in your bill could be settled when you look at the second reading, and we're willing to work on fines. What about public hearings? So this is a more complex question. And I want to remind you that the committee is now considering bill 4585, where we can find agreement and reconcile it with other legislative acts, thus preparing a complex law. We are also considering Bill 4390, which creates city documentation for the united communities, which can also take into account the range of suggestions contained in your law. What's more, if we look at two bills: the one proposed by the group of authors that I am introducing and Mr. Levchenk's bill, we'll see that these are actually identical projects, most of which can be taken into account in the second reading phase, and also in furthering the laws of 4390 and 4585. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u62	Please, Alona Babak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction in the first reading will support this bill. At the same time, we draw attention to a very serious problem in this law, which simply has to be removed from the second reading. The 37th article stipulates that the permit to do construction work may be cancelled by cancelling construction conditions and restrictions by the appropriate specially authorized construction and architecture body of the Statebuilding Authority, that is to say, to the court, it cannot be. In fact, we have a developer who has received a condition from an authorized authority. Urban conditions and restrictions suddenly come, they say, these conditions aren't so, and we're canceling your building permit at all because the body of architecture and construction has given you the wrong conditions and limitations. It can't be, it just has to be decided in court if there's really a problem. But it is not possible to place a hostage of a host subject in the relationship of two authorized bodies -- the archcontrol of state and city and architecture. We think it's wrong and we're going to be working on the second reading amendment, it's a principle, it's a very serious thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u64	Thank you, dear colleague. Please, Alexander Kugel, who is now on the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, it'll come from the Motherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that this is simply irresponsible when two factions demand to consider bills on tariffs that are needed by millions of Ukrainian citizens, and I ask them all to look at the pervasive faction and those MPs who do not vote today and do not support us in this fight, and track their incomes from which they will pay. Because that's what you'll see: church mouse. And with regard to these bills that you have now put into the agenda and are now under consideration, I would like to stress that, please, what kind of reform you're making. For the first time, we took GASKI out of the city, and we took it downtown. Then, with other reforms, GASKI was taken from the center to the city. Today, there are three people working for the entire country in Baltica, U.S.A., where construction insurance works. And if you're building without permission, the state is taking this house down -- and you're paying for it yourself. And that's why I think that if we're talking about laws, if we're national MPs, who represent the people of Ukraine, we need to look at the priority bills that are necessary. And, Your Honorable Coalition, you're talking about fine improvements to the bill, and in Chernigov you're supporting the BP, the builder against whom the entire Kyiv City Council is fighting, the illegal construction of Mr. Mikitas, so say: or the checkers, or the goats?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u66	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko. Please, Mr. Yuri. The microphone is on, Mr. Yuri, you have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, I would like to take another look at the first draft of the report and make a suggestion. With everything you've said, the benefits of your project are a huge gap that will allow you to completely destroy any positives. I'm talking again about the definition of the consequences of building that depend on the level of permit documents that should be available. You have these three categories -- minor consequences, medium consequences, significant consequences. And your bill does not in any way specify how they are categorized, that is, there is no prescribed mechanism to decide what is significant, what is not significant, what is the average. Appropriately, any serious construction, where permits are needed, can be called something that has minor consequences and completely bypasses the entire permit procedure. Appropriately, Mr. Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u68	Please finish one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u69	So if you leave this bill and there's no guarantee that the second reading will be properly amended, then any benefit that is set here, even in your project, will be annulled, because if you want to, any construction will be called something that has minor consequences, and you can work accordingly not by a complex allowable procedure, as it should be, but by a very short procedure, even without a message. Accordingly, I urge you to consider at least this one of my suggestions in the first reading, where I propose to add essentially one point, which would say that buildings with more than 4 floors cannot be attributed to the SS1 effect class, a minor consequence. I urge you to consider this right away on the first reading, because if you do not, all your seemingly positive efforts in fact, as they say, will be destroyed in the hands of the relevant official and the skyscrapers on the 25th floor will advertise themselves with minor consequences. Please support this in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in five minutes. The chairman of the committee will now comment on Yuri Lewchenk’s speech, and I will certainly give my word. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall, please come to the hall. And, Dmitri Josephovich, I'm asking you to give an answer, would you support Lechenko's proposals? That would give us a better chance to go through this bill. Three minutes, turn on the microphone, Dmitri Josephovich Andriewsky. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u71	Thank you. I'll have one minute. I agree, and you could take into account the offer that Mr. Yuri Lewchenko makes. That's exactly what we're getting out of. As for the preparation for the second reading, we are clearly working out all these classes of consequences. Thus, it is clear that more than 4 floors of the house cannot refer to the first category of minor consequences. We agree with that. We also invite colleagues to join in the drafting of this bill. I'm sure we'll prepare this bill calmly for the second reading, in a way that would, on the one hand, stimulate the construction sector, on the other hand, make it impossible for those technological catastrophes that have been happening all the time, unfortunately, in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u72	Mr. Dmitri, don't turn off the microphone. Can I put in the first reading with the amendment of Yuri Lewchenk? Can I put it that way? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u73	Yes, Andrew Volodymyrovich. This can be done in this way, taking into account the amendment made by Yuri Lewchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, so we've finished the discussion, as I understand. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Please, we're taking up jobs, colleagues. We go into the hall, we take jobs. In one minute, there will be a decision on the bill. Please. I'm asked by the authors to put on the ratings to see what the potential is in the hall. If there's no objection in the room, I'll put it to a rating vote. But I ask you not to leave the hall, but to come in the other way. Yes, all colleagues. So I'm putting a rating vote on Bills 4733 and 4733-1 and 2. So please, Your Honor, take part in the rating vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:36:31]] For 203 The authors, I'm asking you to mobilize the deputies. The bill attracted a large number of votes. You didn't make it, I see, but. Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you on the board to see which factions to just mobilize. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Colleagues, please take your jobs. I'm asking the drafters of the bill to help me simply gather MPs, colleagues. The bill had full support in the hall. I'm just surprised what happened during that period. Colleagues, please. I'll do it. I'll point it out again. I'm going to put in the amendment to Lechchenko, which I've heard. I'm going to ask you to correct Lechchenko, which one. I'll put it that way. I'll just put it that way. Yeah, yeah. Colleagues! All right. I'm re-voting. I'd like to point out that I'm going to set up with Lechchenk's amendment. The rating vote. Please take part in the vote, colleagues. Please, we all vote in kind and responsibly. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:38:24]] For 216 Maybe "self-help." Perhaps you should express your position, fellow workers. Self-help, who can express their position, why don't you vote? Babak, please, Alona. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u75	The Self-Help Association believes that the overwhelming group of MPs thinks that this is a very complex, serious bill that needs serious study. And it's an estimate of the change in classification from one category system to the impact assessment system from such a construction. And in fact, the faction divided thoughts. I personally support the committee's support, but I think we need to change this rule with regard to the lifting of permits on the basis of the lifting of restrictions. But this can be done in the second reading. But I, for example, cannot personally influence members of my faction right now, who think that the law is systemic, requires a very serious study, and that's why that is the idea in the faction today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u76	Dear faction and Mrs. Alona, now in your hands, this law is actually in your hands. Maybe that's just what we're going to call it. Just like Lechchenka did. So that your warnings may be withdrawn on the first reading. Perhaps such a form is possible, my friends? Perhaps not, consult with one another. I'm asking you to come into the National Assembly Hall. You're ready, aren't you? In fact, Self-Help solves this question. Thank you, my friends. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please proceed to the workplace and prepare for the vote. Mrs. Olenko, are you with the card? Set it up to vote, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving urban activity (No.4733-1), with an amendment that was made under the transcript by Yuri Lewchenko, at the suggestion of a committee on the basis of a colleague. Whoever supports this decision, please vote on the basis (4733-1). Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:41:06]] For 237 Sorry, the board's broken. 237 for. Decision taken. I welcome the authors who today actually convinced us to adopt this bill. On the basis of the bill, it was adopted. Welcome to the drafters. Dear colleagues, our meeting is nearing its end, and we have orders to release the judges. Tell me if there's a chance to vote on them right now. Let me put on the rating head. If there are no votes, we close the session, it closes. Colleagues, everyone, please prepare. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the Liberation of Judges. In fact, among them, if I am not mistaken, is the judge who freed the Gardener. Again, this is our responsibility. Again, the answer for each of us will be to our constituents and to our society. On the air, we can talk about a bad judicial system, but it is far more important that we vote to show that we are willing to change it. We have three orders for the release of judges. Now I'm going to put it to a rating vote. But each of us will see whether, as national deputies, we are willing, not to speak, but to clean up the judicial system by our actions. So I'm putting a rating vote to vote in favour of the rulings on the dismissal of judges. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:42:53]] For 204 204, but the MPs are good, colleagues. I'll do it again, colleagues. I'll put it again, please come into the hall. These are short questions, these are three votes, short questions. Three draft decrees on the dismissal of fellow judges. I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I'm asking Leonidas to come in for a minute. As long as the MPs meet. Please come into the hall. Leonid Yemen is one minute, please. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u77	Leonid Yemen faction of the People's Front city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I just want you to understand what judges are up to. Here the main part is those who have reached 65 years of age, they have no right to prosecute, and, roughly speaking, they just occupy places, cabinets, they continue to get a salary, even though they have no bearing on the execution of the judiciary. And it's also the judges who wrote the release applications. These are the people who can make room today for new candidates to come to open competitions for these positions. Let us open the way to new professionals not involved in these judicial, related corruption schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m1.u78	Colleagues, once again, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm going to put again the ratings vote on our readiness to review the rulings on the release of judges. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and vote on the rulings on the release of judges. We can't put them in if we can't make a decision. Please vote, take part in the rating vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:45:03]] For 206 I can't put it to a vote if I see that there's no readiness in the room. I have another proposal from the hall. We have daily laws that, as I was told by the factions' heads, all support 3665 and 3665-1 -- the Mediation Act. Now I'm going to make an offer so we can put it in order of the day. And if, indeed, everyone supports him, we have time to consider him. Please be prepared. Please vote. And if there are voices, and there will be political will, we will immediately consider it, it is in order of day. Yes, but he's still here, and we can't change and I don't have that will to change. That's why I'm putting it to the vote right now. There will be voices, there will be no voices, we will close the evening session. Do you have a deal? I say I put it to a vote and there'll be votes -- we're talking, and there won't be, I'm closing the session. Everyone, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. There is a request from several factions that we now consider 3665 3665-1 -- the draft Mediation Act. Whoever supports this bill now, please vote, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Vote. [[17:46:38]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we had a very exhausting but very important day during which we were able to adopt 12 bills, and it was actually a very responsible and conscientious work of Parliament. I want to thank all the national MPs for today, for our productive work and to remind them that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we're going to continue our work, we're going to have a lot of international agreements tomorrow. I very much ask everyone disciplined tomorrow at 10 a.m. to be here in the session room. And now, according to the Rules, almost six o'clock. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'll be there by 10:00 tomorrow. Happy birthday!
