ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! The time given by the Break Rules is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the continuation of our hard work, but it is necessary for the country. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputy that everyone will be in the Chamber. Please. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go inside. Please prepare for registration. Please give me one more minute, we'll be in the hall for a minute. I'll wait. Colleagues ready for registration? One minute. All right, we'll wait a minute. Please come into the hall. Call on the Secretary of the Supreme Council, call on the deputies to enter the Hall. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you to register with the Ukrainian National Deputies and I'm asking you to sign up, please. [[16:07:48]] There are 371 deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have a competition to block the rostrum. But I would like to be more careful and listen to me. Now we have the next one in the agenda, chapter two, double bill 4288, this is the draft law on the specificities of purchasing goods, jobs and services to ensure that the defence needs are met. I'm asking for your silence and attention, Your Honor. But the Self-Help faction is asking to postpone its consideration because they haven't been able to get to know each other. Yeah? 4288. Tuesday. But, colleagues, why would I want to consult? The Ukrainian army is urgently awaiting this issue today. Ivanchuk agrees to consider today. Let's see. Can we start to consider it? I'm serious. So you're absolutely denying that we're looking at it right now? Let us probably listen to the position of committee head Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich on this matter. Because once again, this is for five days we're stopping our boys from securing on the front line. This is extremely important and painful. I received a call today from both the Secretary of Defense and the Chief of the General Staff and the Commander of the National Guard, and a huge number of volunteers with the request and demand to consider the bill. Fellows, I'd like to, let's take a minute apart from the factions, maybe we're exchanging thoughts about what factions are willing to support Bill 4288, it's too important. I'll ask the factions for a minute to exchange our thoughts on how we should be, whether we're ready to support it today. From Peter Dustenk's Block, 4288, who will be. Vinnik, please, Vinnik, one minute of the word. Vinnik, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I get it, a lot of noise today, despite the important bills we're trying to consider. I understand that we have now moved to the consideration of Bill 4288, which deals with the specificities of purchases of goods, jobs, and services to provide for the needs of the defence. He had gone through second readings on the committee, and were amended, many taken into account, many observations. So let's make a decision, vote. The army cannot be delayed; it is the security of our state. These are not the questions for which the rostrum is being blocked today. Explain this to the people in the trenches that we cannot make decisions in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u3	Thank you. I totally agree with you. We can't do anything about national security and defense to drag and put our guys on the front. So I'm looking at draft Law 4288, draft Law on the Specificities of Purchasing Goods, Jobs and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs. And I invite you to the report. It's a second reading. I'll bet. I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich, to report, and I ask the deputies to prepare themselves for the discussion. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please report. Please, Andrew Ivanovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, excuse me, Ukraine is waiting for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The 11th Economic Policy Committee considered a comparative table to the draft Law on the Specificities of Procurement of Goods, Jobs and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs (Registration No. 4288) and recommended that the bill be adopted in a second reading and as a whole in the Committee. This unanimity of support for the bill is due to the clear and coherent work of the national deputies of all factions and groups. Discussions included representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Interior, the National Police, the National Guard. The working group worked on 117 amendments to the bill, most of which were included. And I thank the amendment authors very much for joining us in this work, and we have all been able to make this bill better. I briefly recall that in the first reading of the bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, MPs expressed concerns about non-admission of corruption in the implementation of the law when it was adopted. In this regard, a bill prepared for second reading proposes a separate mechanism to separate the purchase of goods and services for open trade and defence purchases. This mechanism will be followed by the fact that when planning purchases by buyers who apply this law, in the annual plan, purchases will reflect information about the defence of procurement by individual positions, so we will clearly understand that the defense is not being purchased. The annual plan is open-source, and all those who want can see that it will be purchased just for defensive purposes. Special attention, too, is paid to the question of the imposition of responsibility for repeated infringements of the procurement procedure or the terms of the contract of the parties, well, so-called 'faithful participation'. You know, there are fictitious companies that go to the competition specifically, offering unobjective prices to break down the purchase process. Thus, in a second reading to prevent the possibility of delaying purchases by participants by filing motions to court, it is proposed to set short deadlines for court hearings of such disputes: 2 days. The relevant changes are proposed in the Code of Administrative Justice. You see, if we adopt this law now, it will be impossible to manipulate public procurement in the defence complex. I'd like to make a note of that, too. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u5	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u6	I would also like to point out that changes to the Code are setting a precedent for a special regime for the handling of cases in reduced terms. I also stress that the bill is the first time -- it has action in time. The bill, the bill, will only take effect during a state of emergency, war, a special period or an anti-terror operation. When our country is in trouble, this law will not work and everyone will use only the Transparency Procurement Act. So I very much ask, honourable national MPs, the distinguished national deputies of all factions and groups. We had all the factions on the committee, this law applies to the defense of our country. I am very much asking for support in the drafting proposed by the committee, and the commission committee in signing this law to take into account technical and legal remedies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, for that was a strong report. Dear colleagues, I recall when this bill was in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was a requirement of many of our frontists that we accept it as a foundation and as a whole. But as chairman, I was approached by a number of deputies and informed that they had rights. By full procedure, all the motions came to the committee, from all the deputies, were dealt with by the committee according to the law. Yesterday I gave the commission to the head of the committee so that this law would be immediately considered. And yesterday the committee considered it, and the table was posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We can't push this question any further. It's a matter of national security and defense. I very much ask all the deputies to take a responsible approach to the discussion. We will discuss it in full procedure, as is the case with the Rules. But I'm very much asking you not to introduce political manipulations to protect our nation from the invader and our boys on the front. I am asking for a responsible and honest discussion. And so I'm going to go to those lines that were rejected. And I ask the MPs, especially the right-wing authors, to prepare themselves for discussion. So the first draft of the National MP, Chernenko, is rejected. Does Chernenko insist? Black girl doesn't insist. What's that? Tell me what you're doing right now. 2nd row. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have a tradition of not yelling from place to place, but of taking a word on the microphone and talking. Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Vojcitsky, let him express his opinion to the whole of Ukraine, not just to the presiding officer. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I demand confirmation of Mr. Ivanchuk's 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, head of the committee, comment on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The 2nd amendment has no point in putting on confirmation and there's no point in discussing it at all, because it means. The point of this amendment is to put, think about, the numbering of the text of the bill and to form the text according to the rules of standard-setting technology. Who's against it, I don't understand. And why would you want to put an amendment in for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u11	But Deputy Vojtsicka insists on her position. Yeah? And that's why I'm voting to confirm the 2nd Amendment of the People's Deputies of Ivanchuk. Who supports the 2nd edition of Ivanchuk, she's in favor of confirmation, please. Let's wait for Andrew Volodymyrovich to return and perform an important voting mission. Who supports the confirmation of the 2nd Amendment of the People's Deputy Ivanchuk, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. [[16:20:17]] For a hundred and Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is the 7th People's Deputy, Levchenka. Mr. Yuri, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u12	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Indeed, during the drafting of the bill for second reading, for second reading again, the committee introduced a certain mechanism on an annual basis, which in some ways removes the corruption component that I was talking about when I presented my alternative project, which I was trying to correct. However, the annual plan can be easily modified, it can be made at the last moment of change and, in fact, it can be put into the annual plan itself, absolutely goods that do not belong to the country’s protective activities and to the protection of the country’s borders. So I still insist on my amendment, which would clearly narrow down the criteria under which this law works, so that there are not these blurry criteria that are now at risk of national independence in Ukraine. What is this criterion? Please add 15 seconds, please. Please add 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u13	Please add 15 seconds to Lechchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u14	To avoid such strange criteria as the threat to Ukraine’s state independence, it should be clear that this law is used solely for defence purposes to deter a direct attack on Ukraine. So I'm still asking you to put this amendment of mine to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u15	Ten more seconds, please, Mr. Yuri, finish your thought. It's over, isn't it? So, Mr. Yuri insists that we place it on confirmation, Amendment 7. And I'm betting on confirmation of the 7th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Who's behind it. Would you comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich, comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u16	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Mr. Levchenko, in our view, is a more effective way to control purchases to ensure that defence needs are guaranteed is to predict in the annual plan the purchase of individual positions only for defence purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u17	Thank you. Therefore, the honourable colleagues who support Amendment No. 7 of the People’s Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. You have heard the position of the committee, please vote. [[16:23:08]] For 104 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 14 of the Ptašnik People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist on the bird. 15th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Chernenko. Does Chernenko insist? Don't insist. 16 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semenha. He insists and gives the floor to Oleni Sotnik. Please turn on the Oleni Sotnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, this is our amendment to the Semenah People's Deputy ("self-help"). It refers to the exclusion from the list under this law of the three executive bodies: the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service and the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Why? The Ministry of Internal Affairs has nothing to do with ATO. If we're included in this list, there's actually going to be funding, more specifically buying into the Ministry's apparatus through this special procedure. The Foreign Intelligence Service is already making purchases under a special law because most products are a secret state. As for the State’s protection, such an attempt has already been made to introduce an appropriate bill. And the Anti-Corruption Committee found this bill corrupt because the Security Service has nothing to do with ATO and does not perform military functions during anti-terrorist operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u19	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Sotnik, the listed bodies are the subjects of the fight against terrorism, according to the Ukrainian Terrorism Act. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as you said, is organizing the material and technical security and resource management of the National Guard, which is at war. In addition, individual military units of the External Intelligence Service, as low-level budget managers, have the right to purchase goods to guarantee defence needs as decentralized purchases. As far as the State Security Service is concerned, the Special Units of the State Security Service, namely the Bullat, are directly involved in the anti-terrorism operation, namely the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u21	Thank you. People's deputies, Captain and Semenich insist on voting, right? Who supports Amendment 16 of Semimenach and the People's Deputy, I ask you to enforce. 16 Amendments that support, please vote. Please vote. [[16:26:02]] For 121 The decision is not taken. 17th Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u22	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear about the previous amendment and about the amendment that is related. Indeed, this text is now in the final reading of the concept of the annual plan. Really. This really makes the situation of corruption a little bit better. However, there is no change in the criteria by which goods are formed that are included in the annual plan. So it's going to go on, and then there's this completely undefined notion of "hazards, threats to Ukraine's state independence." Under this form, you can write anything. So use this law to circumvent a normal, normal purchasing system. Unfortunately, my amendment number 7 was broken. And so this amendment that I'm talking about doesn't even make sense to vote. That's why we can't put it to a vote. But I'm still calling on the coalition MPs to make sure that after this law is passed, they pass a separate bill and correct this corruption impreciseness, so that this project will still work solely on demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u23	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u24	For this project to work solely for the needs of our army and not for any of the smallest corruption cracks left, and there's a huge corruption gap that can lead to billions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u25	Thank you. Don't you insist, Mr. Yuri? Thank you. The 18th Amendment, and the Levchenko. Please 18 amendments. Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u26	Thank you. This is the amendment that I insist on voting on, because this amendment concerns what I propose to remove from the scope of this law. I remind you, a law that facilitates the purchasing system and creates a simplified purchasing system in some authorities. So I propose to remove the Ministry of Internal Affairs from this law. In this law remains, I do not propose to take away, for example, the National Police, it stays in this law, other organs remain. But the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a certain umbrella organization, the governing body needs to be taken away from here to take away even through this law the possibility of making, for example, buying expensive furniture for the Deputy Minister of Habakkuk's offices or, for example, buying through the Ministry of Internal Affairs, not through the National Police, buying backpacks through the son of Habakkuk and so on. So I still ask you to remove the Ministry of Internal Affairs from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u27	Please comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Levchenko, we have the law, and you know it, and I don't understand why you're manipulating, calling different names, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is organizing material and technical and resource security for the National Guard of Ukraine. Dear friends, let's be honest, without this item, tomorrow will be a question of how to secure Ukraine's National Guard. Dear friends, if you would like to call on Minister Habakkuk in this room, let us not use a bill that protects the defense of the country to collect political accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u29	Thank you for your state position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u30	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u31	Mr. Yuri, you have a lot of amendments, you can say a line in any one of them. Please. Do you insist on voting? Mr. Yuri? You insist. You're going to be able to speak again and again. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 18th People’s Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[16:30:17]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next up is 21 amendments to the Black House People's Deputies. Mr. Chernenko, you insist. No, it doesn't. The next amendment is the 28 People's Deputies of Semimenha and Sotnik. Is he insisting? To whom is the word? Semenha, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! This amendment allows for a substantial reduction of corruption risks. Experts in public procurement have repeatedly pointed out that the determination of the expected value of the item of purchase is a potential area of corruption risk and that there is no clear algorithm for determining the expected value, and so everything happens to the customer's own judgment. So this is the gap that is being addressed, and we think that this amendment is substantially strengthening this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u33	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u34	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable author of the amendment, Mr. Semenach. You understand one thing, you and I have adopted a basic bill on public procurement, and there is no, this law does not provide for methodology. So if we're going to change something right now, it's going to establish legal and economic principles, and it's going to balance the two laws. That's why we can't support it, even though the idea is right if it was written in the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u35	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist. Yes, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 28 of the People's Deputies of Semimenha and Helen Sotnik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:32:05]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Next rejected 37th amendment. Semenha and Sotnik. Do you insist? Yes. What's that? 32nd. 32 revisions. Yes, it's counted, it's written "partially." 32 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u36	Colleagues, our 32 amendments are partially taken into account, but they are fully a follow-up to the EU directive, which, inter alia, we need to implement. Because this directive directly refers to the features of defence procurement, the 2007 directive. And there's a direct rule that applies to the requirements for documenting the ability of contractors to make contracts. So these are the requirements that we've listed, because the correction is partially narrowed down. We ask for our amendment to be taken into account in general, and we very much ask for support to ensure that this law at least meets European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u37	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u38	No, let's support the author and ask for confirmation, I support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u39	Thus, the proposal to include Amendment 32 in the text of the bill as a whole is put to the vote. Whoever supports this proposal, Elena Stotnik, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote 32 amendments in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:33:58]] For 181 The decision is not made. Mrs. Olena, I see there's a lot of support for the hall. I'll put it before the vote, maybe I'll put it again, and maybe we'll get a positive vote. Please remind me of the 32nd amendment, okay? Thank you very much. Next up, 44th Semenha. All right, 35 repairs. Semenha. Please turn on the microphone, 35 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the bill also allows for a substantial reduction of the corruption risks due to the failure to use posters during tenders, it is also aimed at implementing the bill in accordance with the EU Directive. Simply put, if the master does nothing and all the work is done sub-sub-contracted, the client is obliged to require a technical and economic justification for the analysis of the reality of the performance of this layout, this commitment. This occurs when a subcontractor performs more than 20 percent of the total amount of work. So we insist on this, because this allows us to reduce the risk of corruption. Please be very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u41	Thank you very much. Andrew Volodymyrovich, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u42	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MP! You have to understand that when a genetic organization goes to a competition and wins, only then can it choose subordinate organizations on the best and most advantageous terms. Thus, until this competition is held, this information is not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u43	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on Semenha's proposal for 35 amendments. Whoever supports his proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:35:57]] For-125 125 for. The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 37 Semenicha, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u44	Colleagues, 37, were rejected by the committee in view of the protection of information and the confidentiality of the information to contract contractors. The committee rejected it because they believed that other laws had settled the issue, but I recall that the law was special, the rules were special, and the subject of its regulation was particularly important to the State and the maintenance of the State’s secret was fundamental. In our amendment, we came out of Article 42 and Article 7 of the EU Directives 2009 on procurement in the field of defence, which also requires special safeguards for the processing and protection of information obtained in the course of the implementation of these military contracts. So I'm asking you very much to support and provide these guarantees, because this is a matter of national security, and it's very important that we don't have a source of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u45	Thank you very much. Comment on it, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u46	Dear Mr. Head! Dear People's Deputy! The Economic Policy Committee in its work is using the laws and regulations of Ukraine. Therefore, the standard is not subject to regulation of the draft law. I repeat that the procedure for access to restricted information is regulated by the Information Act and the Ukrainian Public Information Act. That's why we don't fit these rules into this law, they're already regulated by other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u47	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Who supports the inclusion of the 37th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha and the Captain, please vote. Please vote. 37 Amendments, Semimenach, Captain, who's backing up? [[16:38:14]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Next issue is the 39th People's Deputy of Seminy. Turn on the Semensi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, the amendment is very important because it makes it impossible to participate in public procurement in the field of defence of companies whose final beneficiaries are natural or legal persons registered in a state recognised by the Supreme Council of Aggressor or for which sanctions have already been applied. We cannot afford to finance an aggressor during war. We have to have zero tolerance on these issues. That's why we insist on that. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u49	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u50	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, it is a very important question. However, the proposed provisions are not subject to legal regulation in the area of procurement. And we can't include him in this bill. But to date, the list of restrictive measures, sanctions and all the important things you're talking about -- the application, the cancellation, the amendment -- is determined by our adoption of the Sanctions Act. So on the committee, we've taken into account the importance of your proposal, but we think we need to make changes to the Sanctions Act and define all of these specific countries that are subject to sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u51	Are you insisting on 39 amendments? I'm putting to the vote 39 the amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:40:19]] For 132 132 for. The decision is not made. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. I continue to conduct our session, my esteemed colleagues. And let's move on to 46 revisions. This is National Deputy Chernenko. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Let's move on. 50 amendment, People's Deputy Ivanchuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 55 Amendments, People’s Deputies of Semimenach and Sotnik Are you insisting? Don't insist. 59 Amendments, People’s Deputies of Semimenach and Sotnik Are you insisting? Don't insist. Yes, National Deputy Levchenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Figured in part 54. The Levchenko National MP insists on taking full account. Please turn on the microphone, 54 corrections, Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u53	Thank you. Thank you. In fact, my amendment refers to increasing the periods during which the purchase procedure actually works. Yes, indeed, it's a simplified procedure law. Indeed, the lines should be shortened normally. In fact, it usually takes two months on average to come out, but what's proposed in this law for five days, well, excuse me, please, five days is a direct corruption factor, it's very easy to set up a competition with your people who can suddenly prepare something if they know it's going to be announced now, and no one knows it anymore. And five days is not enough for all market participants to prepare their proposals. So I proposed an amendment for 10 days. The committee made this interesting decision: by one day, it increased from 5 days to 6 days. Well, excuse me, what is one day to increase in this context? I don't think that's making things any better. So I'm still asking you to consider my amendment as a whole, and to increase the deadline from 5 days to 10 days. It's still a simplified procedure, but it's enough for all market participants then to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u54	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u55	Dear Vice-Speaker! Mr. Yuri! Mr. Yuri, I'm addressing you. You speak well, but you have forgotten the very basic goal that you and I have set before you in this law. We want to do this procedure in 14 days at all, Jura. We do. We've spent 14 days, and we can't just increase it to 10 days. We went to meet you, we increased it by one day. But when we're trapped within the general framework, please support the initiative of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u56	Thank you. Please confirm Mr. Levchenk's full vote. [[16:43:28]] For-92 92 deputies, not supported. We've passed the 59th amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] 58th. I can hear you. Now, we're looking for her. 58. Please, Mr. Levchenko. Levchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u57	Thank you. In fact, 58 of my amendment is about leaving 5 days, adding 5 days to the purchase procedure if suddenly in the middle of the procedure the customer changes criteria. Well, obviously it's necessary, because if the criteria change, they're going to change under someone again. What the committee is proposing — three days — is not enough to allow all market participants to adapt to the changed criteria. So once again, there'll be insider information for the inside. For our friends to give us information that we guys are going to change the criteria tomorrow, so get ready. You will submit a corresponding new application in running order. The rest won't know about it, and they won't be able to prepare. So I'm still asking you to put this amendment to confirm that there are 5 days for market participants that would allow them to make new proposals if the criteria were changed. It doesn't change the general concept of the law. Still, there are short lines left, these two weeks that Ivanchuk has just talked about. But a corrupt component is taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u58	Thank you. Please note that the amendment of the 58 People’s Deputies of Lechchenk is complete. [[16:45:09]] Z-91 No correction supported. 59th, the authors don't insist. 60 amendment of the People's Deputy of Chernenko. Don't insist. 69. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semenha. Don't insist. They insist. Voropeyev, Opposition Block, 62 amendment. It's counted, it's counted!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u59	I'll say it, I'll say it, Yura, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u60	69th, don't insist. 70th National Deputy of Semimenach and Sotnik. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 80 Amendments to the People’s Deputy Winnick Is it insisting? He insists. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Winniku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u61	You know, dear colleagues, I took the floor to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people to the mess we have today in the session room. You know, once upon a time, the speaker of the Supreme Council, Mr. Parpuy, suggested that we hold an exit meeting. Perhaps it would be a good idea to hold one of the field meetings, such as in the ATO area in Austria. I'm sure that would add discipline to the session room. Because today we are considering a bill that is extremely necessary to support the defence of our state and the Ukrainian army. The Ukrainian Army is the institution that has the highest level of support in Ukrainian society, unlike the Supreme Council, by the way, and we don't want to support it. We are now at risk of losing this bill. That's why I'm addressing all the deputies who are today at the rostrum, including the Radical Party, which I declare that it supports the sovereignty of the state, to return to the workplace and vote on this project. Then, if you have to continue these political conflicts, let them go back, but if you don't go back now, you're not going to vote on this bill, it's the sabotage of the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. We are confident that all the deputies will return to their posts to support 80 amendments to Mr. Winnick's vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u63	Okay. We've already put it to a vote. [[16:47:40]] For-82 Yes, let's move on, dear fellows. 82 national deputies, no readjustment accepted. 81st People's Deputies, Captain, Semimenach. Don't insist. 85th National Deputy Lensky. The Lensky National MP does not insist. 88th, insists Mrs. Captain. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, 88 amendments, refer to the situation of subcontractors. Because according to the law, there are fairly well - prescribed requirements for direct performers. But we know that subcontractor involvement is often the most corruptive factor, because subcontractors actually make these lining companies that drive the basic costs of solicitation. In view of the fact that this issue has been purchased, the issue of defence, we suggest that the requirements be clearly laid down for all subcontractors who perform a contract more than 20 percent. And these subcontractors have also provided documents that confirm their actual ability to execute these contracts, thus making it impossible for any corruption factors regarding the outflow of money and the failure of the customer, and more specifically the main contractor. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u65	Let us place the amendment of the people’s deputies of Semimenach and Sotnik on confirmation. Number 88, please. [[16:49:26]] For a-117. Correction not supported. The next 89th Amendment, same as Olena Sotnik and Mr. Semenich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next, Your Honor, amendment number 95 of the People's Deputy Vinick. Are you insisting? National MP Winnick's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u66	I'd like to speak to Mrs. Vice Speaker. Before we put this bill to the vote in general, if we vote like this, today, we will have to make a signal vote. We have no right to lose this bill. At the same time, when I listen to the self-help faction comments, I realize that there are compromising ways to count some of their rights in whole or in part. So anyway, I'm going to the session room to consolidate the voices. If they are not there, we need to seek compromise today. We cannot block the rostrum because we have some misunderstanding political differences. We cannot abuse the issue of national security today. We have no right not to support the Ukrainian army. That's the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u67	I understand you're not insisting on the amendment, but you're calling the hall to a vote. 95 revisions. Mr. Winnick doesn't insist. 96th, Semimenach and Captain don't insist. 101 amendments, national deputies Dmitrenko and Mamchure insist? Don't insist. 108 Amendments, People's Deputy Birdie insists? Don't insist. 109th National Deputy Chernenko insists? Don't insist. 110th National Deputy Levchenko insists as always. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u68	Well, I often insist on my amendments, as the chairman said. Because my revisions have some good meaning. That's why I insist on them. Thank you for pointing that out. This amendment applies again exclusively to the Ministry of Internal Affairs under this law. Sadly, the previous amendment had failed. Right now, there's no point even here to vote on this. I'd like to answer the reporter who told me that the Ministry of Internal Affairs cannot be ruled out. Because there won't be a Nascwardy there. Well, Your Honor, study the law you're reporting. The National Guard is stipulated separately in your law. Thus, the Ministry of Internal Affairs alone would have no effect on the National Guard. In general, the bill, unfortunately, of those hundred percent of the corruption points that we announced were taken into account. The correction of these corruption points was taken into account, unfortunately, by about 55 to 60 percent. But given the fact that the law is really needed by the Ukrainian army, considering what really is, if it's not accepted even with these elements, it's going to be a much worse situation. Please add 10 seconds, please. Let's stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u69	I ask 30 seconds to give Yuri Lewchenk 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u70	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Chairman. So, despite the fact that, unfortunately, too much regret, this law leaves certain corruption risks, I call for the coalition to come to terms and then correct, but it is impossible to put the army on the line and considering that the worst corruption risks have been corrected, yet in general we will vote in favour of this bill. But I do encourage you to think a little bit about the country, not just your own pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u71	Thank you. Please comment on Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. People's Deputy Levchenko, everyone in this room knows that the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is: (a) National Guard; (b) National Police; c) Foreign Service. Period. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is organizing material and technical security. Period. You don't have to speculate on that. All this talk you're talking about, the minister of the interior, the members of his family, is a black pierre, and I'm asking him not to use it when discussing such an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u73	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? At the vote? Don't insist. The next thing we have is 111 revisions. Simeonah insists. Mrs. Olena will talk. Please, Mrs. Olena Sotnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, I want to point out what's actually said here about confidence in the army, yes, it's the largest one in the state right now. But we amended and corrected this law, not because of mistrust in the army, but because we don't trust the authorities who are buying for this army. And in order to ensure that our army is as secure as possible, we want this law to be as effective as possible, as transparent as possible, so that no amount of money can go aside, but it's spent on the needs of our army. That's why we're stressing that all of our amendments that were made, they contained an anti-corruption nature, and they greatly improved this law and created an effective use of the budget. What's more, I want to point out that today there's no money in the budget for our army at all, so this is a separate issue that the government has to solve. I very much ask you to approach the vote very carefully. And my personal request to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u75	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u76	My personal request to the committee not to break such important laws in Parliament, invite MPs to work groups: we can be useful, and we can improve laws and not create conflict situations in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, before giving the floor to comment on Andria Volodymyrovich's state position, I would like to stress that this is the last amendment, and in two minutes there will be a vote, and I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall that is not in the hall, and I ask you to prepare for the vote on this two-pronged bill. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote. And please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u78	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I have three questions. First. Amendment 62 of the Voropeyeva People's Deputies, it's miswritten, and on the committee we agreed that the information would be distributed in relation to all the end-beneficiaries of the buyers in the army. The second question. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I apologize for the delay in discussing this bill, but I will report to you and apologize to the MPs from Self-Help. On Tuesday, we spent three hours holding a working group with all the ministries and all the experts, we didn't reach consensus, you weren't, unfortunately, and we're explaining what the reasons were. There was no consensus on just two amendments, and on Wednesday, the next day, on the committee, we made a decision and reached consensus. So I'm very sorry. Now for the comments. I thank Oleg Valeriyovich Lyashka, the Radical Party, for knowing the importance of this bill, all the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u80	They told me, Andry Volodymyrovich, that during the vote, everyone would return to their jobs and guarantee 100% support for the bill. Thank you all very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u81	Are you insisting on the vote, Mrs. Helen? Mrs. Olena, do you insist on voting on this amendment? Who supports the amendment. Don't you insist? Dear colleagues, this is how we completed the discussion of the bill. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to hear me, this is the issue of providing our boys with an advance, this is the question that the Ukrainian Army is looking forward to today. I really want us to remember, even though sometimes we are the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Parliament of the Time of War, the time when we have to defend ourselves against the Russian occupation. And each of us is responsible for this front as well as the fighters who are now in the trenches that today at the blockades protect the peace of all Ukrainian families and all Ukrainian families. I would ask that we put aside political speculation at the time of the vote. And I'm addressing all the national deputies who are now blocking the rostrum. Oleg Valeriovich, Oleg Valeriovich Lyashko, Lyashko, I ask you to hear as well as "Block of Peter Poroshenko." Let's just forget politics for two minutes, let's go through politics and see Ukraine and our fighters, let's take our seats and vote, and then we'll all go back to our seats. Is that okay with you? Thank you, Radical Party. Peter Dustock's Block, I'm waiting for your decision. My colleagues, thank you. Places to make decisions. My colleagues, thank you. This shows that it is primarily the Ukrainian Parliament and we feel like a national assembly that cares about Ukraine's interests and its protection. Thank you all for understanding, thank you all for your position. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of Purchasing Goods, Jobs and Services for Guaranteeing Defence Needs. Let me remind you, this is what volunteers, the Reanimation Package of Reforms, all the public structures are insisting together, and it's going through all the regulations. Bill 4288, proposed by the committee in second reading and in general, patriots, we vote! Who supports the second reading and in general, we vote! Please, Your Honor, we are voting! [[17:00:21]] For 294 294 for. Decision taken. Oleg Valeriyovich, we agreed that everyone would return to their seats, we agreed that there would be no political speculation. The law is passed. I welcome the authors of the law. I welcome the Ministry of Defense, the National Guard. I welcome our defenders for the right position. And I'm asking you to stop by the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to stop. Andrew Lozova, please stop! Colleagues, please stop everyone! Have you calmed down? The Radical Party of Laska, Oleg Valeriyovich, we agreed that everyone would return to their positions. I'm asking you to calm down! Once again, I ask you to stop, Oleg Valeriovich, Oleg Valeriovich, please take a state position. Dear colleagues, they've stopped, haven't they? They supported the state, supported the army, and stopped. Thank you so much for understanding, thank you very much for your important state position. And now I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been given the appointment of President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Jurija Vitaliyovich Lucenka as Attorney General of Ukraine. This is the exclusive constitutional mandate of the President of Ukraine, which he introduced to the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the highest representative body, has a decision to make. I was talking about us being a Parliament of Wartime, a Parliament that should make decisions. Because a parliament that can't make decisions is a gift from Putin, a gift from the enemy, and we can't get away from making important state decisions. It's chaos, which is in the prosecution's office, that we have to stop our decision and our position. And that's why I'm calling everyone to professional discussion. The question will be considered in full procedure. Everyone gets a word under the Rules. I guarantee you this as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everyone has the opportunity to express his opinion by giving his word, by expressing his political position. But I ask you to stop any attempt to do anything in the resistance room. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for the responsible and active work of all deputies, and I would like to inform you that the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being held by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. And I invite Peter Alexiovich to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is the Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Army, the army that's fighting, and I'm asking you to stop the Radical Party. I would like to inform you that according to articles 85, 122 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council a proposal for approval for the appointment of Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka as Attorney General of Ukraine, who was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Protection. And you're given a decision by the committee and a motion by the President of Ukraine. The rules of procedure will be followed. The President's statement, then the candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, then the question of representatives of the MP factions and groups and national MPs: 20 minutes. The discussion will be from factions and groups to 24 minutes. Talks from the National MPs for up to six minutes. According to the Rules, consideration of the matter can no longer take place. It must be at least 1 hour. We will, by full procedure, have a full discussion, a responsible discussion of this issue, as is the case with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. May I have your attention, please? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u82	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I arrived at the Supreme Council from the Palace of Ukraine, where a solemn assembly is now taking place on the occasion of a 50-year stay in the Kiev office of his Holiness, Patriarch of the Ukraine of Philaret. I ask with applause to support His Holiness from this solemn occasion. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Please sit down. The other one. I wanted to thank the Supreme Council for adopting the reform changes to the Attorney General's Act. Thank you so much for this. Because today these changes to the law allow -- maybe someone doesn't like it -- that's the right of deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the right of deputies in a democratic country. But cancelling Stalin's general supervision of the implementation of the General Inspectorate, which allows for a decisive fight against corruption inside the Attorney General's Office, instead of the propaganda that individual politicians have tried to organize, dressed in prosecutor's uniforms without success. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[Applause]] The steps that allow today to involve new, honest patriots who will be able to bring about real changes in the prosecutor's office, I think, is a huge step towards reforming the prosecutor's office. Regrettably, the first steps in reform have not proved to be very successful. And it's not because they were wrong tests, I'm stressing that tests were done qualitatively, and not because they were inadequate exams organized, it was also very good. I would like to point out that the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot be implemented only by the change of the Attorney-General. People who have legal practice, judicial practice, people who have the proper title and experience (knowledge and experience!) For a salary of 2.5 thousand dollars. We have to do everything we can to create the same conditions in the new reformed prosecutor's office as we did in the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office, in order for the reformed prosecutor's office to carry out its tasks as set out in the Dignity Revolution. This law allows me to apply for a new Attorney General. Two months have passed since he was retired, which was retired by Victor Mikolaiovich Shockin, and we have no way of waiting. That's why I'm submitting the Attorney General's candidacy at the same time, and this Attorney-General is going to be Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. [[Applause]] I ask you not to worry, including the distinguished national MPs. I am confident that Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko has a more moral right to demand justice. He went to the eshaft for his beliefs while some national deputies cooperated very effectively, including with the previous authorities. [[Applause]] He didn't betray his conviction in prison, he did, honestly, side by side with me, and with many of you, he was next to you in Maidan. And we need now, the Attorney General's Office needs a heavyweight that will not be driven by revenge that will not be driven by a desire to deal with someone. This will be the Attorney General who will come out of a sense of justice. And justice will be what needs to be brought back to the Ukrainian people! Because many of those who were offered today were to demonstrate their effectiveness and to plant friends, and to investigate the crimes of Maidan, the crimes of May 2nd, the House of Trade Unions in Odessa, the corruption crimes that are now under the jurisdiction of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And I'm confident that with the rapid effective steps of Yuri Lucenko, taking into account his high authority in society, he will create and increase high trust in the prosecutor's office. At the same time, it is not possible to lubricate all its representatives with red paint. There are many decent and professional people who are willing to work on the team and reform. So I ask you to stop the political fireworks and show, and I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will agree today and support my proposal for appointment as Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. On April 26, 2015, Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Act, which is called upon to reform comprehensively the anti-corruption system in accordance with international standards and practices of foreign states. This law amends the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules and is supplemented by article 311: restrictions on participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with conflicts of interest. Under this rule, the National MP participates in plenary meetings, discussing issues of conflict of interest in which he has a conflict of interest, provided that the matter is publicly announced during the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, where the matter is being considered. This requirement is laid down, this requirement is guaranteed by part six of article 37 of the Rules, and article 28 of the Ukrainian Law provides for the obligation to report the existence of a real or potential conflict of interest to a college body in which the subject has a conflict of interest. According to that law, I'll give you one minute to perform, for Yuri Lucenka, one minute. And then one minute for Irina Lucenko, after Yuri Lucenka. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, by the Supreme Council Rules, paragraph 6 of article 37 and in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, articles 28 and sub-paragraphs 1-3 of paragraph 1 inform you that consideration of the matter and voting for it is a real conflict of my interest. So I say that I, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, will not take part in the discussion and will not vote on the matter. In doing so, I comply with the law in force in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u85	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Irina Lucenko, please, 1 minute. Yuri Vitaliyovich, if possible, Irina Lucenko will give you the opportunity to speak. This is going to be correct. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, Mr. President! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! In accordance with part six of article 37 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act, article 28 of paragraph 1-3, paragraph 1, I report that the consideration of the matter and the voting for it is a real conflict between our family interests. Therefore, I declare that I will not take part in the discussion and vote on the nomination of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich for the consideration of the Supreme Council as the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u87	Thank you. The candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, is invited to the floor. In 10 minutes, please. May I have your attention, please? Today, we have seen an example of the dignity of the people’s deputies. Yuri Vitaliyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u88	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. President! Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I realize that now I have to say the words that I have to put into practice. I have great and professional and political experience, including the experience of defeat. And I understand very well that I am not going to fame or to easy work. First thing I want to say. Dear colleagues! I find it very unpleasant that I have made an amendment to the current Law on Public Prosecutions. I certainly don't think it's a very good practice, and I would never go there if I could find someone that the President, Parliament and society would believe, that he could break today's inefficient and often criminal system, and he has a greater desire to do it than I do. In fact, to those who talk about education and the need for legal education in the role of Henprocuror, I want to remind them. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, we've been set up by professionals with legal education. Education is not a guarantee that the prosecution will work for law and society. [[Applause]] I have an aluminum ring on my desk right now, and if you choose, there'll always be an aluminum ring in the Henprocurator's office, with which I sat in the 157th chamber of the Lukyan SIZO, and then in the Men's Correctional Colony, where I drank 2.5 years of tea as a reminder that lawlessness and political orders are impossible in the new Ukraine. [[Applause]] My education took me four years to serve as a minister of the interior. And if Janukovic, after a very careful year of searching for why I should be put in jail, has made a landing for the illegal celebration of the day of the police, well, in accordance with the President's decree and the Ukrainian budget, it is a guarantee that I have never done illegal things there and will not do anything, but still have been able to manage this ministry, including from a legal point of view. I also got my legal education on the bench of a suspect, on the bench of a convict, on the bench of a man who said from prison that I would be the country's greatest optimist. I'll stay with him. Dear colleagues, I have agreed to the offer of Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko to take this position because I realize that without the implementation of the slogan "One for All" without justice for everyone, regardless of their political preferences or location, party or other affiliation in the new Ukraine, there is no chance. I, the leader of the BPT faction, the largest faction of the new Ukrainian Parliament, feel strongly that we need to change not only the laws but also their implementation, to oversee them, to change the whole climate of respect for law and man. And that's why I agreed to take this position. Under the conditions of death-stricken investigation bodies, prosecutors, courts, I understand that it will be very difficult to do so if we speak honestly, almost impossible. I understand that. But that's exactly what this job is for me. Yeah, I got out of prison and said, "In six months, there's going to be a revolution." My closest friends were turning their fingers around the tent saying, "Lucenka, I think, is out of my mind." And what a revolution that was, in the spring of 2014. I was wrong for a few weeks. We did it! All of us, together, were able to take down the Yanukovich gang, all of us armed with Berkut, with our bare hands, really, at a terrible price. We did it because we believed it! [[Applause]] Yes, on the front we were able to stop the greatest military power on the European continent, into the teeth of armed "green men" and then the regular armies of the Russian army. We did it! I'm sure those people who believe can. "E=ms2" wrote Einstein. Energy is much more than mass. I think that the shared energy and those who went out to Midan and put us here should work in the prosecutor's office. Finally, optimists change the world, and pessimists acquire profanity in Facebook. [[Applause]] I'm going to the U.S.A., and I'm ready to go to the U.S.A. with a new law that you've passed, which finally gives the possibility of an open blind but open court of Janukovitch gang and traitors of the state hiding in Crimea and in the occupied area of Donbas. [[Applause]] And when a young colleague compares it to the January 16 laws. My dear colleague, I was lying there with a concussion in the hospital when these laws were passed. And I want to tell you that the laws of January 16 were passed against people, and today's laws are passed against those powerful men who killed our fellow countrymen, and now they're hiding abroad. Do not compare these laws. It's not fair and it's not moral! [[Applause]] I'm going to the Henprosecutor's Office to use your new law to bring in new people with legal education who have never worked there. I believe that's the only way to change the "general grave" to a real lawyer of the state and people. I'm counting on finding, in fact, in the Attorney General's Office, honest professionals who were preserved there under all the authorities in this country. I count on these honest investigators in particularly important cases, prosecutors, other employees, because everyone wants to live in a new country. No one forgot how the generals ’ wives cut the sandwiches on Maidan, and the prosecutors wore civilian clothes and went out on Maidan. I believe that they are still there, and we will be able to unite them, along with new people, into a team that will serve the law and the people, not Mamani. It is with them, I hope, to intensify cases against seniors who, unfortunately, have not been happy about our appearance in the courts lately. I'm also going to reopen the investigation into the sold and closed cases of the past, and the modern power of Ukraine. At the same time, I want to be open to the public, the Henprosecutor's office doesn't plant, only a court can decide whether or not a person is guilty. I don't have any revenge. My colleagues, I've known Li Kuan Yu for over a year and a half, I have a little bit of another philosophy. You have to choose your friends so you don't have to put them in jail. I don't have a list in my head. I don't have any revenge for all these years in the 157th-meter chamber of the Lukyaniv SZO, no one. Forgive me for taking the time, at one point when this hatred and the desire to avenge me was pushing me somewhere in the first, second month, I read the sacred texts of the Buddhism of Dhammapad, where it is said that the fool who has revenge will tear it apart from the inside just as the diamond breaks the rock in which he was born. And I realized that people who stole 2.5 years of living, working, loving, won't get one second of my life on the loose for revenge. That won't happen. [[Applause]] But I'm going to practice two principles at work. First. Whoever committed the crime has to answer, and I don't care about the color of his party ticket, his unpartyity, his place of birth, his name, his nationality, religion -- the law is one for all. But just as important, colleagues, in the work of the Henprocuratorate, it's not just a punitive function. It is very important to defend citizens’ rights against the abuse of power — police, prosecutors, judges, and officials. So I think we need to stop the practice of turning law enforcement into political projects and the business holding of oligarchs. We need to stop the practice of using intelligence and investigation as a business support for appropriate oligarchic structures. I give you my word that no one, apart from a procedural one, will be more faithful, except for a particular leader, to be in the board of attorneys: no one will be in the board of directors, no deputy, no businessman, no party manager. Yes, you, like other citizens, have the opportunity to go to the heads of the local, regional, Attorney General's Office, my doors will be open to the public defenders, my ears will be open, too. But no investigating and supervising prosecutor should discuss the details of the matter with you. I find that unacceptable. The standard of general inspection, which I thank you for having carried out today in law, allows me to expel those who do not support such approaches from the prosecutor's office. Dear friends, I want to say again, I understand perfectly that I have a huge opposition to the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u89	Yuri Vitaliovich, I'll give you another 30 seconds, we have very limited time, please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u90	The temptation of the populists from day one to spread, before I do anything, I'm going to ask for the collective support of the change of the Henprosecutor's office. I was wrong in my life. I'm afraid I'll make another mistake. Everyone who works is wrong. The important thing is not to make mistakes. I will not repeat my mistakes, and I count on your constructive criticism, those who today will not vote for me to see these mistakes. On the other hand, I'm counting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u92	I count on the social support of all those who stood by the night in Midan and dreamed of a new country. I'm going there to make the Henprosecutor's office a tool for society for justice and a normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u93	Thank you. Now we have 20 minutes of questions for the candidate under the Rules. And then I'm going to give a speech to the head of the committee. Now, 20 minutes, so please prepare for the recording. And on behalf of everyone, I would like to thank Petra Alexiyovich Poshenkov, President of Ukraine, for taking part in the meeting. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, 20 minutes, please. Then, then! Guys! Society so there won't be any noise in the hall. Now we have 20 minutes under the Rules -- questions, then 20 minutes from groups and factions, and then six minutes from deputies. Together, this should take 45 minutes. I'm announcing now that I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. But let's be as concise as possible so that we can get into our work day. And I'm asking you to record the questions of members of the MP factions and groups and of the national deputies to the candidate for the post of Henprocuror. Please hold the recording. Please. Mikola Skorik, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u94	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have the next question. Recently, the country celebrated the difficult anniversary of May 2, 2014, in Odessa. And I have a question for you. How will you proceed as soon as possible under your direction, do you plan to intensify your investigation according to the recommendations of the European Union, the Council of Europe, regarding the investigation of these events? We see that the guilty have not yet been punished, they have not been brought to justice, and this is a big question for both the country and international society. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u95	Mr. Deputies, the future president of Ukraine, and I, along with him, were on the second day in Odessa after these tragic events. And I remember the black eyes of the Odessa. The city of the sun, the city of humor, the city of human warmth at that time had been hit very seriously. I believe that the investigation is to be conducted objectively. I don’t know what his circumstances are right now, but I will have to examine the situation personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Najem Mustafa, the Peter Dust Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u97	Yuri Vitaliovich, good afternoon. First of all, I have a question for you. Please tell me I recently witnessed a meeting of your committee, as you called the criminals of all Mr. Shokin's deputies, the Attorney General's Office a gravedigger. And first of all, Mr. Sevruk, who was at the meeting, you said that he was specifically hiding things. I have the first question for you. Can I wait, and are we all who will release all the people who hid things at Shockin: Mr. Sevruk, Stolarchuk, Gowdew, Zalisco? And the second question. When you were the Minister of Internal Affairs, you spoke publicly about Kiev being robbed by the Czernovetsk team. When these people went to parliament, you promised to put them in jail, and it was public. Can I expect you to start investigating those days -- and we'll see criminal cases against Olesia Long, who's picking up votes for you now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u98	Thank you. First. Good afternoon! Dear Mustafa, I've had my mistakes, but I've learned them well enough. So as a member of this parliament, I did not call anyone a criminal by name. Only the court can do that. Only the court can do that. The same applies to the release of all. I'm adjusting something. My job in the Henprocurator's Office will be by creating, on the competitive basis of the General Inspectorate, who is involved in the illegal closure of cases, who is involved in illegal actions against individuals or others, and who will be punished either disciplinaryly or as punishment. There's no way to free everyone, because someone has to work. But anyone who has abused the law and the people for filing a general inspection of Ukraine will be criminalized by the State Bureau of Investigation. Until they do. created by his own country's Attorney General. It's a rule of law that you didn't vote for today. Now there's another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u99	Please. How long does it take? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u100	Mr. Mustafa, I'm the man who claims to take my place on the profile committee, and I recommend you read the Procurator's Act. It is now unable to open new cases but simply to investigate the old ones that have remained since the creation of the National Anticorruption Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u102	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u103	Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u104	Yuri Vitaliovich, good afternoon! Say, please, you know, that according to the reforms that we have already adopted in this. In these walls, competitions were held to include the leadership of local prosecutors. It's a shame that only 3 percent of the "new blood" so to speak, which can reform, has come. What will you do about the contests that have already taken place? And the second question. Please tell me that there is a list of those prosecutors who were involved in the cooperation and were in the management positions of the Yanukovich regime. What's going to happen to this list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u105	Thank you, Maxim. I think that the Book of Illustration Act is one of the most effective tools of change in government, so about 400 prosecutors, who are still not highlighted, will be highlighted. The other one. As far as the local prosecutors are concerned. Unfortunately, these failures. This reform is to be shared by the previous leadership of the Henprocuratorium, and we, the national deputies. Me, especially. We did not pay enough to get lawyers on the side, or judges, or militias to take the place of local prosecutors. I'm going to ask for a raise in the salaries of the prosecutor's office. But only after the prosecutor’s office has shown society that it is acting against crime, especially high - ranking crime. We can sue the Yanukovic gang and legally return its money to the government's income, and then raise our wages, and then we'll hold new prosecutors' competitions on new terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u106	Thank you. Ostap Ednak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u107	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, one of the examples why you say a person can't be called a criminal is that the Attorney General is blocking the transfer of cases to the court, especially the main forest of Janukovitch Victor Siece. I've asked Shockin twice to hand over 300 volumes of ready-made cases, not to be referred to court. Last fall, it's spring. The second question. There are many national MPs here who will be your deputy policy, please tell me. And who do you plan to appoint as intercessors? And the next questions. The D.A. doesn't investigate the beatings and riots of activists in Cotsubinsky, they recently took place, they're all blocked. And the final question of the mayor of Odessa Truhanov. Why is his dual citizenship not being investigated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u108	Thank you. Colleagues, with your permission, I'm not going to answer any specific criminal matters right now, and I'm counting on meeting you and the employees who run these cases. Otherwise, my speeches would be superficial, and I want to be cured of this disease. Nevertheless, I can say that if the case is closed and the person is charged, he must go to court immediately. If the procedural stages are not completed, we're going to try to speed them up, that's a general principle. By intercessors. From my point of view, it is unacceptable to take the deputy, for example, the coat of arms that runs the Maidan case. He must bring the matter to trial as soon as possible. More than that, he has to get more resources, more resources, to make sure that this thing responds qualitatively to who killed people. The same is true of another deputy in the investigation. I'll listen to all the stuff. I'll hear his plans. If he says that September-June is enough to bring 10-15 resonating cases to trial, that's the time he'll be given. If he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u109	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u110	If the facts are established that anyone in an administrative, or management office in a prosecutor's office is artificially detained in their corrupt or party interests, he will be released. According to Odessa, all of these things, and Cotsubinsky, I know very well, and secondly, I'm ready to go with you to look into the specific materials of the investigation. I'm not doing this from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u111	Skin conveys the word to the national deputy Kisse. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u112	Dear Yuri Vitalevich! I will continue the question raised by colleagues regarding Odessa on 2 May. I just want to prove that two years ago, I headed a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the tragic events that had taken place. And I can tell you that quite a lot of information, materials that will help in the investigations that must be conducted honestly. Indeed, all were, must be punished, and the materials must be brought to justice. Today it's going down. I beg you very much, and it's not just me, it's all Odessa, and not just the Odessa, the rest of the Deputies, so that you can pay attention to this. And secondly, to investigate the events that have taken place here in Parliament, where the children have been killed, in carrying out their duties here, at the walls of Parliament. I think this issue is up to date, and I hope that these issues will be understood, supported and addressed. We will support you in this important matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u113	Thank you. I very much hope that you will support me in many other important things, but come on. I'd like one. I have in my office, everyone can see, there's a painting of Kiev, Lviv and Odessa, because these are three of my favorite cities. I love Odessa very much, but I really don't like her being reminded of her wounds before the holidays. Leave the investigators with this job. I've already told you that I'm going to listen to this case in person. But I would ask the politicians to stop crushing this very severe blood wound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u114	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenko, the Fatherland faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u115	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! I want to remind you that when this Parliament was formed, when it was elected, my colleague, Olena Stotnik, and I registered a project to create a commission that would directly help investigate crimes against the rangers, the killings and other things. You were one of the ones who objected. It's been a year and a half since we've seen no significant progress in this investigation. Also, you have just said that there will be no outsiders at the meetings and so on. I would like to inform you that the progress that has been made has been made, including through outsiders, lawyers, deputies who have assisted in the investigation. Management. I want to know if your position has changed since then. Will things continue to be the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u116	Thank you. I really don't think the TSC should be accompanying the investigation that's already started. The TSC can get ahead of him and that's normal. But when the investigation is over, the deputies should not duplicate, all the more so in the case of the investigation. As you said, Mr. Igoru, lawyers are not strangers. Lawyers are part of the process. Deputies will also be at meetings, but they will not be procedural. At the councils of a procedural nature, the task of MPs is not a right and I do not think they should be there. There are other administrative advices for this. Again. Every MP now has the same rights as the TSC. Colleagues, you all have colossal information combined. I'm officially telling you, my door is open. Likewise, Igor, as I then took you to the Attorney General on this matter, I will also open the door for you to talk about this and other matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u117	Thank you. Ivakhov Stepan, "The will of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u118	Please give the floor to my colleague, Sergio Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u119	Yuri Vitaliyovich, you remember when you came to see us on the road and talked to the boys, the volunteers. So I don't even have a question, I have a requirement for those military personnel, volunteers who are now in the ATO shades, to put them under investigation in peaceful areas so that unoccupied investigators and prosecutors can conduct a proper investigation. That's the first one. The other one. In the Idar battalion, a few political prisoners are like Nadia Savchenko, so is Vita Zaverucha. Deal with this, because yesterday a girl opened her veins. Well, my personal, it's still my business, it's been a year, I've never been questioned. I'd be glad to be interrogated anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. In this room, the Law of Balogah’s first reading on amnesty was adopted at the previous session. I was a person who, with the help of a profile committee and all of you, made an amendment that ATO participants at any stage of their criminal proceedings, except those who committed crimes against a person, particularly serious crimes against a person, should be amnesty. I would very much ask that we will soon find an opportunity to adopt this law as a whole. The other one. My request to the Deputy Military Prosecutor would be to have a judicial investigation into ATO participants outside the Donetsk and Lugansk areas controlled by Ukraine. I would like to ask you very much, and I would recommend that you make a decision on the establishment of a military court in the areas you've chosen, where these issues are addressed, because they are specific. They are specific, so it is desirable for a specially designed court to consider this. Thank you. Oh, and it's an interrogation. I would like your initiative to be supported by many people and to come to the investigation on their own. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u121	We remember our trip to Idar repeatedly. And I'm sure Yuri Vitaliyovich will take all your suggestions into account. So, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-help faction. Turn on the microphone. And, Yegor Sobolev, I'm sorry, Yegor Sobolev is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u122	If you are really going to produce a illustration in the Attorney General’s Office, the advice is to start directly from the prosecutor of Kiev Wallonduke, who is in office in violation of the Law on the Cleaning of Power. The other one. I'd like to know your assessment of the cases that Shakin's team started about you David Sekvaralidze and Vitaly Kaska and the Anti-Corruption Center. Third. What do you think of the diamond prosecutors case? And the fourth. Explain to Parliament and Society the existence of Mercedes-Bens and BMW-X5 2014 releases in your family's declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u123	Thank you. Starting with the last: My family’s declaration is open and all expenses for the purchase of cars last year and the last year correspond to the income my wife showed me when I was in prison and then me when I started working on a paid job. If you compare, Mr. Yegor, these declarations, you'll see that all of my expenses: both on my house, and on my car, and on my vacation, and on my donations to the ATO, and on my purchases, the technology for the ATO -- are consistent with my income, and there are no problems. Now with regard to the previous questions, let me be clear, I strongly object to being asked what names should be released, or what names should be drawn, or who should be planted, and who should be rewarded. [[Applause]] Let's look at the specifics, not your Facebook posts, but the specific materials of the criminal case. One thing I can say is, I think it's a case against Sekvaralid. Shabunina is so petty that it is simply a disgrace to the U.S. Attorney - General’s Office. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u124	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u125	If there's even a component of the crime, I'll see, I'll see, it's definitely not the competence of the top GPA managers, it's also the head of the GPU press that made it a "month marathon." Knowing David well, knowing Shabunin well, I can only think that it was a kind of "political malice" of this kind of attempt to defile critics. I'm not gonna say I love criticism, there's no such people, it's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u126	30 more seconds, that's an important question, I think the hall will back me up, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u127	I can't say I like criticism, but I'm very patient with it and I apologize. In this case, I'm going to deal with things, if they were illegal, I'm going to apologize on behalf of the service, and we're going to close this not-so-glorious page of the GPA. I'll take care of the case, because I've read it exclusively in your form so far, and I'd like to see how it's handled by an investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u128	Thank you very much. We've probably got one last question left, because we're not going to be able to make it anymore, this is Clan Sergey Volodymyrovich. Last question, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u129	Please hand over Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, two hours ago in occupied Bahchisarai, a deputy of the head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people Ilmi Umerov was arrested. Literally, 10-15 minutes ago, in the occupied Simferopol cartels of the FSB read Ilma's death charge of doing public action, calls for a change in the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation. So the invaders accuse the Ukrainian citizen of remaining a Ukrainian citizen. This morning, in the same occupied Bahchisarai, four Crimean Tatars were arrested, accused of terrorist activity. Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you, Yuri Vitaliovich, if you'll excuse me, I'll vote for you, but what are you going to do with those officials who are committing the crime of inactivity? Tell me, please, I'm finishing up, we have organs that we would have long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u131	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u132	We should have been able to develop and make available to us some of our plans for bribery. Will you have the strength to return the Crimea to the President's Administration? I want your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Refat. And as a tribute to me and the faction of the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, as my next-door neighbor in Parliament, I can honestly tell you that I have a constant heartache over Crimea. But that's not enough. I realize that I'm going to a position where there are other things to do besides emotions, I've already said that the law that you've adopted today gives you the opportunity to move over a thousand, over a thousand cases already violated in the Civil Service against those who betrayed Ukraine in state offices in Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. I will make sure that this happens as soon as possible, not later this year. Moreover, their property in Ukraine must be arrested and confiscated. I am confident that these processes will stop their children from travelling abroad with a Ukrainian passport. I'm sure we have something to answer the invaders and traitors. Mr. Rephat, looking at Cemiliev, who is unfortunately not in prison today, has spent a great deal of time. I always remember that Crimea deserved the support of Ukraine just as I had received it from the Crimean Tatars from the first minute of occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u134	Yuri Vitaliyovich, thank you so much for the fruitful discussion, please take your place. I invite the chairman of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Andrija Kožemjakin to speak for two minutes. And then come out of the factions. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u135	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting today on 12 May considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, President of Ukraine, to serve as Attorney General of Ukraine (number 4654). The above-mentioned project, the President of Ukraine is asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree to the appointment of Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. After discussing the draft decision for the appointment of the Attorney-General, the Ukrainian National Deputies expressed a number of wishes, namely, to complete the investigation of the crimes in Maydan and to bring the perpetrators to justice, to carry out, at last, effective reform of the prosecution's organs, to set up the functioning of the entire system and to involve honest and professional people in it. After reviewing the proposed project, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich be appointed President of Ukraine as Prosecutor General of Ukraine. Sixteen members of the committee were present, 13 were in favour, 2 were against, 0 were not voted on by Mr. Lucenko, the National MP. The committee therefore decided to support the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Andrew, for your quality professional work. And now we're going to have two minutes of factions. I'm asking you to record the factions. Please record. Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Sergey Sobolev, please. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u137	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want to address you, first of all, because this is not the first time that we've called Parliament that hopes and intentions should not overturn the consequences, conclusions and actions. I would like to say immediately about three myths that no one ever expected to be refuted in this session room. The first myth, it turns out, is that print media is much more operational than electronic media, because when we opened the Voice of Ukraine with wonder, we understood, it turns out, not only Janukovic could be announced by the President in 2004 in the Voice of Ukraine or in the newspaper Government Courier. We can do this now. The second myth is that it's not a law. And the third myth is the key thing that is now in the state, it has to be not a name, it has to be an action, and it's going to have to evaluate everything that's going on. And three short wishes. First. By no means should anyone who becomes the Attorney General return those old days of general oversight, however much this may be desired. The other one. The one who becomes the Attorney General must first think not only about who to release, but also about how to make it worth the wages of those who work in the Attorney General’s Office. And the third is equally important. Take a close look first of all, not those who vote against it today, but those who vote in favour, why they vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u138	Please, 10 seconds. Finish it, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u139	And what they expect. We have no claim to you as a human, but the faction has decided that we will not vote for your appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u140	Well, five more seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u141	in view of the fact that laws cannot change 3 hours before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u142	Thank you. I ask you very much, Your Honor, I have the right under the Rules to continue for only 15 minutes. I ask you very much to follow the rules. We are having a full discussion, but have respect for the time taken. Please welcome the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u143	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Unfortunately, the distinguished president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, stepped out of the Parliament Hall because he was obviously not interested in hearing people’s opinions, the opinion of opposition national MPs regarding his choice. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko said in his speech that when Yuri Lucenko was in prison, many cooperated with that authority. We must give due self-crisis to the President, because just when Yuri Lucenko was in prison, President Poroshenko was the minister of the government of Yanukovic, responsible for economic policy and the country's collapse. And when your honorary colleague Yuri Lucenko got out of prison and said that the revolution would be six months from now -- I know that President Prashenko is exactly watching our performance right now -- Peter Alexiyovich, I want to tell you the same thing: with the politics of robbery and corruption that you're conducting, the new revolution will be in six months, and they'll bring you out just like Janukovic did. Because when you come to the House of Parliament and tell us that you have to fight corruption, that you're assigning your third best man to the post of Attorney General, and that this will allow you to reform the Public Prosecutor's Office, I want to remind you, 25 May is two years old as Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko is President. Can any of the Ukrainians see the change? There you go. Everyone can see through their pockets. Millions of poor, millions of hungry, people do not eat meat, people do not eat bread. At the same time, people read from the international media about the President's offshorees, how he hides his wealth there, how he doesn't pay taxes, how his environment hides money and doesn't pay taxes. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can yell, "Damn!"as it was for Yanukovich, you can try to shut us down, you can even try to trap us, but you can't stop the millions of Ukrainians you're robbing. And that robbery policy you're running, it's going to lead you to the fiasco. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote for the appointment of Lucenko as Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u144	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for keeping the order. And Lavrik Mikola Ivanovich of the "Block of Peter Dustenka" gives the floor to Vladimir Ariev. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, I rarely go to this rostrum. First. I will personally vote for Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich. The other one. I've known this man since the mid-1990s and I want to assure each and every one of you, I'm sure he'll never be comfortable and handy. He would never play games or play games with anyone. Let's think about the year 2005. Which of the leaders of the law enforcement agencies went into attack, besides the minister of the interior affairs of the country of Lucenka? [[Applause]] At the time, I was in charge of the area, and I know how hard these steps were for us. Next. Many very journalists are present today. And remember Gruszewski, when this man came out of the barricade with that gas smoke and an open take without protection, he was interviewed every 2-3 hours, and you asked him, I saw it myself, I saw it myself. And to the end. Dear previous speaker, you've really learned to speak well, I see it and I know it, and I know you long ago, thank God. Please tell me honestly and realistically, could you lead the high school today in the third grade? I'm sure I could. Could you be a teacher, such as chemistry? Well, chemistry, maybe. And so on. I have no doubt about the organizational management capabilities of our candidate, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u146	Please support the last words, I emphasize. We've got the next one. Please follow the rules. Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich "The Will of the People". And I'm asking you as concisely as possible, colleagues. I remind you that I continued the meeting for 15 minutes. I understand that the word is given to Jaroslav Moskalenkov. Please, just go into your room for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u147	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, in 95, Ukraine, in its application to the Council of Europe, committed itself to changing such an institution as the Public Prosecutor's Office, leading it to European standards. 21 years have passed, and we see that the Attorney General's Office remains an instrument in the hands of senior political officials in dealing with the foreign investigators in this country. Yuri Vitaliyovich, we will vote for you, and I'll tell you why. Because you're the only candidate in this room that we've talked about, to whom the People's will MPs believe in advance, that you will not unrepentantly follow the direction of the High Party leadership, but shed light on the dark spots in this country and establish the justice that the Ukrainian people are looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u148	Thank you very much. From Self - Help, Alona Babak passes the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u149	What would the Attorney General of Ukraine be voting for right now for the Self-Help faction? For Henprocuror, who would start tearing up corruption in Henstab and the Ukrainian Security Service from the military range that turned under Kiev to the site of elite forgetfulness. For the Henprosecutor, who would come and say, "Give me all those who helped Schokin who helped him, who helped Jaremi, hide Midan's affairs along with top-corruption cases." For the Attorney General, who would say, "Corruption in Ukraine is led by oligarchs. The most successful today is the President of Ukraine. Let's take off the offshore business, let's take on Intraco, which has already become a world acquisition. What are the chances that the leader of the Presidential faction, Yuri Lucenko, will become such a general prosecutor? Every MP in this Parliament knows the answer, and he knows a lot of people in this country. We have a huge request to all colleagues: you are not slaves, you are not servants of the President, you are not hostages, you are the national deputies of Ukraine. There are people here, very many people who pressed the button for the same Jarem, who pressed the button for the same Shockin. Do not take the third sin upon yourself. We tried to explain to the President of Ukraine that his friends should be sent to prison rather than to the general prosecutor’s office. [[B in m in s a l in]] Self-help, Self-Help won't support Yuri Lucenka, will vote against his appointment. We want to say that Yuri Lucenka and Peter Dusty, who offered him, can lie to one person for a long time. I can do it once.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u150	Please, 10 seconds, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u151	Once in a while, many people can truly be deceived. But many people cannot be deceived for long. No one's ever done this before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. And the last performance from the People's Front is Maxim Burbak. Right after that, it's going to be six minutes -- people's deputies. The last is from the faction. Be more emotionally restrained, Mr. Yuri! Please, Maxim Burbak, two minutes. Attention in the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u153	Dear colleagues! Today we make a very important state decision. Yuri Vitaliyovich, corruption, corruption, and again corruption are words that you should remember. And the fight against this should be every day in the Attorney General's Office! Because even though you and I have made a lot of right decisions in this room, we've created a lot of new bodies -- NABA, NAZK, Nazgwardia. We've restored, we've created the National Police. But in the end, the Attorney General's Office remains an important institutional element in the fight against corruption. We expect you to investigate the crimes against Majdan, investigate the crimes against the judges who release the Odin officials of the Yanukovic regime, return their passports and walk freely in this hall. The discovery and return of Yanukovich’s money stolen by his gang to the state. At times, there is little if not to say that he is not at all. Yeah, you're gonna have to break a walled prosecutor's system. But I'm sure a person with your experience will succeed. Unfortunately, of course, some political forces that have gone through the same path of political and criminal persecution have refused to support the changes in the system that has recently persecuted them. Our faction will vote in favour of Yuri Lucenka's candidacy and will support your reform efforts in the Attorney General's Office. This is not the first time that we have made responsible government decisions. But remember, the demands and expectations of society before the Attorney General’s Office are great. You're the fourth Attorney General in two years and you have no right to fail. We have no right to fail. We remember that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u154	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, the last chapter of the Rules, which is, is six minutes away from the national deputies, or only three speakers. Colleagues, this is the Rules, we have to go through the procedure. But if you write it down, it'll only show you the record. Three men, I won't give any more speeches, because we just won't be able to make it anymore. I'm asking you to hold a recording, a statement from the National MPs, six minutes. Please sign up. So three people. Berezenko Sergei gives the word to Irina Heratchenko. And I give the floor to Heratchenko Irina, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, I ask you to raise the hand of those national MPs who were in the courtroom three years ago, where they set up a court against Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. Look how few hands there are in this room. Because it really required a lot of courage at the time. Juru Lucenko and Julia Timoshenko were tried by "high professionals". I was judging them. That's right, Yanukovich. But those professionals with education did not have a spine, had no courage. And Jura, unlike so many, then who was legally brought to the courts for corruption and other reasons, didn't fall into wheelchairs, didn't roll there on the floor, he was proud to stand with his head up, he wasn't running out of the country, and that's what could break the system. And all those today who are trying to embarrass our colleague, I want to tell you: show an example of courage first. The other one. You know, a lot of people in this room want satisfaction, but their satisfaction is a chair and a job. It's very important that he didn't talk about satisfaction in his speech, because for him, consider it a Golgophe and a challenge, he wants to stay in history by changing the system. And we're gonna help him do that, those. Who's supporting him to break this "prosecutor's code"? Next. They said the president didn't plant anyone, but they said wrong. It's not the President who's planting it, it's the corrupt judges who are doing their jobs today. We have a judicial reform with you to clean up this system as well, and so that the corruptionists and the corruptionists and today's and those standing in this room, including at the rostrum, sit down and answer. Well, it's the key. You know, the President doesn't have to have any friends like Henprocuror doesn't have any friends because their friends are just Ukrainian people. And we hope that this is exactly the way it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u156	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u157	We hope that this is exactly what will be done today by Yuri Lucenko. We may not be able to say for a second that he's our friend, but we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u158	Thank you very much. Podlisecki Leo Theofilovich gives the word, yes, Podlisecki conveys the word of Volodymyr Parasuku. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u159	Dear Ukrainian people, I would like to remind our President who said that those who voted against Lucenka were going to Yanukovic. Perhaps the President forgot that he was in the government of Azarov and so. for Yanukovich. Listen, shut up. Yuri Vitaliyovich tells us, come on in, I'll listen to you. What kind of venues will come, if you've put almost everyone in jail, you've already transplanted all the volunteers. Yuri Vitaliovich and the distinguished faction, a dominant faction that lacks something forever. Tell me, please, where is your political will, where was your desire for reform two years ago? What did you miss, President? The Ukrainian people gave you the President, did you miss those chairs? You've been given this chair, you've been given this chair, you've been given this chair in local places, you've been given a chair in local self-governance. Please tell me, what do you miss? You lack love for this earth, for you are just accustomed to coming and stealing it. And now I want to tell you, if you're talking about patriotism, this is the special issue of our future Attorney General. When he was a minister of the interior, he received a reward from himself every month of God, little from the Russian Federation, happy, dear Ukrainian Parliament, so that's on your conscience. But I know exactly what the Ukrainian community sees, and it's going to give a normal assessment, and it's going to win this fight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there will be a final speech in the final debate, and then there will be a vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite all deputies to the Hall and the heads of factions I ask to invite deputies to the Hall. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. The last thing we have to talk about is a speech by the National MP, Cooperian Oleg, who's handing over the right to speak to Andry Loz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u161	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The more power comes upon the same rakes, the sooner the people will take control of the pitchfork again. We see President Prashenko on the third time on the same rakes. He was Jarem's godfather as Attorney General, and what we saw, the prosecution remained as corrupt, as repressive, especially when his second best man was Shokin. The D.A. never put any criminal in the Yanukovic regime, but the previous Shaqin prosecution became a symbol of repression against Ukrainian patriots. And what do we see today? Respectful or not, they tell us what a bad, rotten prosecutor’s office needs to be changed. Listen, didn't you tell me a year and a half ago what a good shockin is, how he changes everything, don't you think you're ashamed of yourself? The same people who protected Shakin, and today you spit on him, beat the lying man, because as soon as the President wrote him down, you spit on him, or you protected him. And so, Lucenko, when the President's insolence falls, if you do, you're going to blame him, because you don't want any real change in this country. You never understood why two and two and a half years ago, people in this country rose up. I know that the world is not black and white, and I know that in the People's Front, BPP is among the non-fractional, many people who are sincere patriots at heart. Look, you and I are voting: with those who voted for dictatorial laws on January 16 and shed blood with those who wanted to plant you, with those who destroyed the country. Because they were intruding on who, like the will of the people, the preference for Crushing, who, like the "rebirth" of customs preferences. You can see that individual deputies from the Opposition Block are voting. What a "opposite" question he is after that. You'll have to think about it, or it'll be too late. The people will never forgive you for what you are doing now, allowing President Dusty to usurp power. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. I'd like all the deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall and ask the faction secretariat and the Supreme Council to inform them that a vote is about to take place, and the factions' heads to invite the deputies to the voting room. We discussed by full procedure the draft Decree 4654 on the granting of Luzenka as Attorney General of Ukraine. So we have the opportunity to go to the vote. Colleagues, are we ready to make a decision? I put to the vote the draft Decree (Registration No. 4654) on the granting of approval to the President of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, as the Attorney General of Ukraine. Who supports ours. I have an offer, please vote. Vote, fellow MPs. Vote! [[18:15:40.]] For 264 I'll take the order. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Yuri Vitaliovich. Colleagues, pay attention! We have not completed all the procedures. I invite you to the Hall of the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart. We have an important procedure to go through, and I'm asking you to stay in your seats. Welcome back, Peter Alexiovich, Mr. President, congratulations. [[Applause]] Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I transmit to you the decree signed by me, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, concerning the granting of approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, as Attorney General of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u163	I'm signing the President of Ukraine's Order on the appointment of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u164	Thank you. Welcome to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, who is appointed Attorney General of Ukraine. According to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine is a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, who is part of its term of office, takes an immediate oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Attorney General of Ukraine, members of the Supreme Council of Justice, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, is invited. Please read the oath. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u165	I, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. 12.05. 16. Lucenko U.V.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u166	I welcome a member of the High Council of Justice to take office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u167	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I ask that my mandate be suspended as the national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, it is a worthy tradition for a high-ranking officer to exercise authority immediately. And I ask you to support this worthy position of Henprocuror. And I'm putting to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. Please take up your jobs. Please come in, take your jobs, come back to work, and I'm putting to the vote a motion to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka according to his application. People's deputies of Ukraine are requested to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:20:14]] For 275 Decision taken. I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. And one minute for Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. Two minutes. Let's make it two minutes. Henprosecutor, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u169	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I'll tell you that I've never been as worried as I am now, even though I've taken many different paths in my life. I am fully aware of the responsibility that lies with me not only in terms of honesty, professional work, efficiency, but also in terms of restoring people’s trust in their own country. I understand very well that I'm going on this mission, and I'm not going to say a lot of loud words right now, I'm just going to say one thing. And to those who voted for me, thank you, I am the one who has not voted and will be constructively critical, thank you. But I'm going to do my best to deal with most of those expectations. I really, really want us all to succeed in restoring the rule of law and justice and respect for the state. Ukrainians have been living in Ukraine for too long. For too long, Ukrainians have been given points in opposition to this non - country. We all have to try to create a real Ukrainian state for all Ukrainians who live here. So all those who are still part of the Zambian "Russian world" understand -- you can live differently, better, fairer, fairer. I'll do whatever it takes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-12-m1.u170	Heroic glory! Yuri Vitaliovich, I want to tell you that society today is waiting for justice. And we, from all over the Supreme Council, may wish you firmness, strength of spirit, and integrity from all those who do not vote! We look forward to your firm and effective decisions! Welcome to Yuri Vitaliovich's election. Welcome! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you for your very fruitful, active work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're meeting in the session room to continue our work. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
