ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please enter the Supreme Council Hall, prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:01:56]] I declare the High Council open. There are 259 deputies from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, before we go to the national MPs, a few words, if you please. I think yesterday that, on the one hand, Parliament has declared the government's work unsatisfactory, and on the other hand, it has not even been able to give the necessary number of votes in order to resign it has not solved any crisis and has deepened it. And I think it's perfectly simple. Or over the weeks a solution will be found right here in Parliament, by the political forces and a model of how to get out of this situation, or that government will have to be fully reloaded and, if necessary, this Parliament. It just can't be different. And I think that's the responsibility of each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow MPs, guests of the Supreme Council! The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And I would like to welcome today our nouns: Julius Volodymyr Ljovcken, Robert Ivanovich Gorvat and Alexander Mikhailovich Kodolu. Congratulations on the birthday of our colleagues. [[Applause]] Success and fruitful work. On Wednesday, the Rules give us 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording of the performance, and I'm asking you to do the recording. Colleagues, please sign up for the performance. To Gorvati, also welcome, birthday, I said, and once again, welcome back. Please turn on the "Race" system, conduct the recording. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please. He's handing over Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues may not be alone, but the dozens of deputies present in the session room today feel, in a mild sense, the disappointment of the spectacle that was played in this session hall yesterday. And it's really too bad that there were a lot of people involved in this that made the MPs look, you know, like, a masseuse in this operateau. But actually, what happened. Has confidence in the government been added after yesterday’s discussion? Did the coalition have confidence after yesterday’s discussion? And it's very strange to hear the words of the Speaker of the Supreme Council regarding the crisis that the coalition went into yesterday, and we see that there are no two factions here, after he too has not made a decision how to vote yesterday after this discussion. Most of all, you know, it's too bad, it's about a government that's lost confidence, and that's why it can't just be the engine of reform, because reform requires a mandate. It's a shame that this game was played by our colleagues from the BPT faction who were given a mandate, but they didn't become politicians. And if it is said today that it is as if we are trying to protect the country, it is not because the country is united, rather than voting for one person or one government, for which we still have full responsibility with you. And if we're talking about the responsibility of the government, which we expressed by the majority of the votes of our factions yesterday, it's not just the Prime Minister, it's the ministers who are delegated by our faction. It can't be that there's an economy minister, a reformer, but there's no economy. There can be no such thing as a medical breakdown, and everyone knows that there are substitutes for the medical minister of this medicine who are delegated as a pharmaceutical mafia of all factions. And so you know what to say is that what's going on can't be that the radical faction, you know, has arranged with the oligarchs and half is voting and half is not. Yesterday, really, Parliament saw very clearly who the politicians were and who was sent here by oligarchs and clans. And in the place of the government, it would be a shame to be represented by the clans. You know, I think the government should take the courage and retire, once De Gaulle retired, Margaret Thatcher retired and they stayed in history. Not in anecdotes. It's very embarrassing when 40-year-olds are clinging to their blue feet for power and they're actually afraid to do something, and I think we should do it in fact. All this disgrace takes place before February 18th. Two years ago, the girls in this session hall and I carried February 18 from the Marian Palace to rescue the boys. And, you know, their call once a year is much more important to me than the cynical smiles of many in this room. I don't want us to be ashamed of what's going on here, and we're on our way. And so in fact, if we remain loyal to these ideals that we stood for two years ago on Maidan, we have to make honest decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u5	Irina, unconscious! Unconscionable!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u6	Thank you. Mathvienkov gives the word to Husaku. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u7	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! I'd like to remind you of a few numbers. Last year, Ukraine’s gross domestic product dropped by 10 and a half percent. Industrial production dropped by 13 percent. Exports to Ukraine have fallen by 32 percent. And, you know, it's not the bottom yet. It's like that joke: when everyone thinks it's the bottom, they knock at the bottom. And in this situation, the Railroad is going to raise the freight charges by 15 percent again. Given the very difficult situation in the Ukrainian economy, now such an increase can lead to a shift in inflation and another cycle of decline in production. You can't let that happen. The Crucifixion always says that raising tariffs is necessary to raise investment costs to buy new locomotives and wagons. Last year, the Crossroads received a 30% increase in tariffs. Do you know how many new cars and electric cars the Cruise Station bought last year? Zero, none. And most of all, there's no one to ask, because last year, people who don't work at the Department of Transport and Crossroads reported on the need to raise tariffs. Dear colleagues, we understand that the Crucifixion has a lot of problems and needs a lot of investment. But they also need investment and have major problems in other areas of the Ukrainian industry. The solution to the problems of Crossroads by raising tariffs is a simple way to go, but this path has two major flaws. The first is the solution to the problems of the Crossroads at the expense of other sectors of the Ukrainian economy. And the second is that it doesn't stimulate the Crucifixion to enhance its own effectiveness. Therefore, we suggest that we identify ourselves with the head of the field because the Transport Committee expressed mistrust and the Minister of Transport. Second, eventually, to appoint a full management of the Crucifixions, which almost two years doesn't have a CEO. Next. Prepare a high-quality financial plan with normal prices for such resources as diesel fuel and electricity. Prepare an integrated development programme, bring it out for public discussion, reconcile it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u8	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u9	...to reconcile this integrated development programme and then work together to increase both the Ukrainian industry and the transport of Cruise Railroads.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u10	Thank you. Halasyuk conveys the word to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u11	Andrew Lozova. It's a great honor to read out a statement from the Radical Party. Praise Jesus Christ! As the apostle Paul wrote in the letter to the Corinthians: "For you cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons, you cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord and the table of demons." We regret to note that the joint declaration signed by Pope Francis and the Russian Patriarch Cyril was a continuation of the shameful methodology of the Minsk Accords when the West solves its problems with Moscow on the basis of Ukraine's principled concessions. Clearly, the declaration was agreed in advance, and its position was the subject of lengthy church-diplomatic negotiations rather than banal trades. Moscow has a tradition of using the church in foreign politics and influences international processes. So Kremlin politicians and the Ambassador of Russia to the Vatican do not even hide the political motives of the meeting. What did the Moscow Church and Kremlin diplomacy eventually receive through this meeting? Three points of the Declaration: 25,26,27 — directly related to Ukrainian issues. They are all formulated to interpret problems in the purely Moscow light and to repeat the clichés of Moscow propaganda. Not to see that one of the signatories to the declaration, Patriarch Cyril, is the real side of the conflict as an ideologist of the Russian world and a spiritual instigator of the undeclared war with Ukraine, can only be blind. The problem of overcoming the dissension of Orthodoxism in Ukraine is discussed in the declaration of Moscow’s paradigm, for the canonicity of the Moscow imperial church is well known. The declaration suddenly rejects the historical experience of the world’s uniatian churches and demeans millions of Ukrainian Greek Catholics, and is aimed at curbing the development of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church. This is the capitalization of Rome in front of Moscow, it's unprecedented. We deeply respect the right to freedom of conscience of citizens, but at the same time we support the creation of the only local church in Ukraine on the basis of the unity of all churches of Kiev's Volodymyr Baptism tradition. Foreign religious centers have now demonstrated vividly that Ukrainian believers are strangers and serve only as an object in their games and interests. Neither Moscow nor Rome should govern the church in Ukraine, nor should they agree to divide Ukraine into spheres of religious influence behind the backs of Ukrainian believers. We appeal to the Ukrainian authorities to stop burying our heads in the sand and to give church politics to ransom foreign religious centers. The government should promote the reconciliation and understanding of Ukrainian Christians, the resolution of divisions, and the disunity in their subsequent voluntary union in the only local Ukrainian church with its own independent spiritual center in Kiev. God and Ukraine are with us!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u12	Thank you. Tree tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u13	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished voters! Yesterday, there was a huge disgrace in the walls of the Supreme Council when voting first for the government's performance and then for the government's expressed mistrust. The "Will" political party voted yesterday for this government to resign, as it voted in favour of defining the discontent of this government. But yesterday it became quite clear who the government was working for. This government doesn't work for the Ukrainian people, this government doesn't work for our communities -- this government works for the oligarchs. And yesterday all the oligarchic groups in the Supreme Council, as well as those directly associated with the oligarchs, did not vote in favour of resigning the government. Even the thief’s block, part of the burglary block, did not vote yesterday, regardless of what the government is constantly criticizing in their activities. Little is meant to say that this was a trade under the 3,700 bill, where, in a friendly way, I emphasize, all the oligarchic groups have united and voted in favour of removing from the list those candidates who have been sold before. Dear colleagues, it is no wonder that such important reforms as the reform of decentralization are so halting and towing. It's no wonder that the government that promised our communities to give up the land at their disposal to take those steps that they are so keenly out of this rostrum, and not only last year, everyone has announced, but nothing is really happening. What I'm saying is that this corruption, the terrible corruption that is going on today in the state of Deriveocadastre, continues. And the government is covering it today. I want to say that today there is no political will either in government or among those MPs who today are part of the agar lobby, including the adoption of the country's important bills 3510, 3510-1, which were promised by the government, which were approved by the government in its concept of decentralization, which were a model for the united territorial communities to be encouraged to unite, to go on a path of decentralization and to show the whole country an example that decentralization and unification of the territorial communities are the right way. Dear National Deputies, now in your hands the fate of decentralization reform, now in your hands the opportunity to support our united territorial communities, to support Bill 3510 and 3510-1, which I hope will be considered today on the relevant committee and will be a positive decision. Tomorrow he'll be taking order in the session room, he's included in the agenda, I ask you to support these bills, regardless of who the political forces belong to. Because communities that are united territorial communities are all over Ukraine today. And this is our chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u14	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u15	And this is our chance, despite today's position, to give the government our chance to start today and not just to start, but to continue the important reform of decentralization by supporting territorial unification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Oleg Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u17	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, yesterday there were out-of-school, culinary games that are being played in Parliament, and arrangements between Yatsenuk, the Occupy, Rebirth and some non-fractional. Now we've seen that Otoblok, the regionals, the Rebirth faction, and some non-fractionals didn't vote in favour of Yatsenuk's resignation, and it became clear that Yatsenuk was actually cooperating with the oligarchs, Ahmet and others, which we had just guessed before, but now we knew for sure. Moreover, Prime Minister Yatzenuk proved to be more pro - Russian than anti - Putinian. Now, together with the government, we have to resign most of all and the entire composition of the Supreme Council. I think that the further work of the government in the Supreme Council is and will continue to be unconstructive. Moreover, the cooperation of the President's Parliament with the current Prime Minister has been quite intense. But after Yatzenuk lost his basic dignity, his conscience, his reasonableness, and began to blackmail parliament, the President, his deputies, blackmailing the President, blackmailing us, risking and endangering our statehood, his continued cooperation with the current Prime Minister will be hopeless, and he has no prospect. The point is that the corruption schemes that Janukovitch had survived, and under the current government, they were the only ones who changed their faces. So it's no wonder that Yatsenuk was supported by the same "Environment", the same descendants of the Yanukovich regime. And if anyone has the opportunity or the right to criticize the Yatsenuk government, believe me, not the Cloud, because you and he are the same, only with different masks, because. I'm talking to the Environment, that you and your regime should have respected the people, not that the people needed to be bothered, not robbed that the people needed to be listened to, not sent. And in the end, the people had to be loved and protected, not killed in Maidan. This government has not fled far from you. Remember, then, that Yatsenuk is a descendant of the Yanukovich regime. And I say to you: Do not rejoice among yourselves, those who did not vote yesterday in favor of the resignation of the Lamb, because he will not be prime minister. The people won't allow it. Because de jure Yatzenuk is still Prime Minister, but he's not actually him anymore. And his people will never see it again. The day before yesterday, Yatzenuk became “salmon prime minister. ” At the same time, remember that greed, urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u18	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u19	..have done him a very, so to speak, wolf service, because his way along with his side of Habakkuk is to go through prison and Lukyanivka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u20	Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u21	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! The problem of providing land for ATO participants is very acute in Ukraine. Over the past week, several hundred ATO participants were taking care of the district administration of the Dergeokadastr in Kirovograd. It's a huge problem at Zakarpatta. I'm constantly hearing about this terrible situation in Poland that I represent as a major MP. For some reason there is no land for ATO participants, no social workers, no peasants. In these three years, when we are the land, the land of the State is ruled by the State Department, the rate of the land’s derelict is terrible. The scheme is very simple: district officials, as in terms of aid to agriculture, farm development, contract contracts for huge lease terms for 50 years, 30 years, 50 years, and minimum wage rates. And the more the bribe officer gets, the more the lease. And in this situation, it's terrible that these agreements are in no way conducive to the development of the territorial community. Local budgets are underexpenditured. And those funds that should go to support local budgets, they go into the pockets of bribe officials. And the people who have to manage these lands are the local communities, and they're not taking part in this. We all talk a lot in the session room to fight corruption. We speak for fighting land corruption, and what do we do to fight this land corruption? For more than six months, we cannot vote on the bill that solves this problem. The language comes after Bill 2279, which at the end of last year we all successfully landed here, sending, thank God, to read again the second reading. And it was under the slogans of giving land to farmers, giving land to ordinary peasants. And it's these simple peasants and farmers that don't get this land because they get pseudo-farmers and under these contracts that don't give the territorial communities anything at all. Today this bill will be reviewed on the profiling committee, I hope it will be supported. At the Conciliation Council, the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament promised that we would consider it on Thursday. So I am personally addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, the Speaker of Vladimir Groysman, to fulfill his promise, and indeed to be able to vote on this bill on Thursday. And we finally have to understand that this situation that arose with ATO participants, with ordinary farmers, with peasants, with social spheres, is the consequences, it's the consequences of terrible land corruption. And fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u22	Please finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u23	These are the consequences of systematic terrible land corruption, and we have to fight it right here in the sessional room, by voting on the bills that overwhelm this corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u24	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich. We need to report a change of word through the microphone. Hustle Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u25	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Dear friends, I'd like to address Mr. Mathios' military attorney from this rostrum. The thing is, in my constituency, it's not just me, it's almost all wallowers, it's all wallowers, it's the heroic 51st Military Brigade, it's called the 14th Brigade today. The fact is, our brigade has been being bullied for two years. Hundreds of fighters, who, unfortunately, were thrown by their military leaders on the front, are tried in the courts of Volodymyr-Wolinski. Dozens of them are, unfortunately, condemned. And these people are not to blame. And this pressure, this bullying of fighters, continues to this day. Literally, February 10th-12th, at the customs crossing of Stylish, a few fellows outside the border sweepers grabbed them and started them there, sorry, press them. No lawyers, no family, and so on. They were demobilized brigade fighters who were not hiding from anyone, who had no subpoenas. And they were pressed there on this border. Unfortunately, today, seeing that there is a protest in the city of Volodymyr-Wolinski, there are community action to protect the fighters, our fighters begin to be summoned to the Czernovetsk Prosecutor's Office, de Volin, de Chernivci. To the Johno-Frankow Court, where Ivano-Frankivsky, where Wallin. How come our fighters are being tried by the brigades in Ivano-Frankivsky? Mr. Mathios, I ask you very much to stop the abuse, to stop the contempt of the 51st Brigade. The brigade suffered massive losses on the front. I was under Ilowaysk, holding the border, and so on. Of course, it wasn't all right, we remember that time, but today to abuse ordinary fighters is wrong, it's unfair, it's an act against the Ukrainian people. And the last. I call on the present parliamentarians, there's a lot of military. This is my colleague, Igor Lapin, Igor Lapin, with him, we want to initiate the creation of a temporary investigation commission that will give and shed light for the work, the struggle and activities of the 51st Brigade, for being despised today to protect it in order to shed light here in Parliament with the hopes of our heroic brigade. So, I think that from the different factions, despite the issues that are facing the government today, let's work at the end of the day, or whether we're going to handle the situation here for six months now, whether we vote well or not. The chance was, I had to vote. So let's focus on the issues that are relevant. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Sugonako gives the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u27	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished representatives of the media, dear colleagues! You know, a few years ago, the Russian Parliament was shot. The Ukrainian Parliament was shot yesterday, but it was shot with shit. Yesterday we were watched by tens of millions of Ukrainians, tens of millions of peasants living on one thousand dollars, living on two thousand dollars of wages, working on two shifts, one at work, and the other at home to feed themselves. Workers who know they've been making their jobs in the last few months, because every factory, a factory, is in danger of being shut down. Small businesses who worked all winter froze to feed, and the markets froze to feed their families. Teachers, doctors who have absolutely no prospects for tomorrow. Seven out of ten of these Ukrainians were waiting for us to take a decisive step. Seven out of ten of these Ukrainians expected the minimum we could make. We can't give them a normal salary tomorrow, we can't give them a normal pension, roads, new jobs. But we could have given them hope yesterday, we could have heard them yesterday. We were supposed to give 300 votes yesterday, at least, for resigning the government. What is needed in these conditions today? Obviously, there is no alternative to parliamentary elections. This Parliament and government cannot continue to do so. We cannot go any further in the way of further oligarchization. Parliament needs real opposition. Last day showed that there is no opposition in Parliament. There are only those who play oligarchic circles that support, in fact, Prime Minister Yatzenuk, who has his salary. That's why I, the Ukrainian national deputy of the last two appeals, Sergey Kaplin, my colleague and deputy of the "Small People" party, Alexander Sugonjak, are writing an application for an exit from the coalition. We are ready to assume responsibility for the formation of a real, real, national opposition to Ukraine, which, through trade unions, streets, public circles, movements, ATO fighters, will be able to achieve parliamentary elections, will be able to obtain the Prime Minister's resignation, will be able to achieve the next election, will be possible tomorrow for ordinary Ukrainians. This is our responsibility to the Lord God.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u28	Don't break the rostrum, the state funds, the budget. Don't knock on the rostrum, please. Courageous decision, welcome. And welcome to the words of Kuril Vitali Semenovich. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u29	Alexei Honcharenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. In fact, Parliament was disgraced yesterday. At first, he expressed his distrust of the government by voting for the government’s unsatisfactory work last year. Then -- not voting for the resignation of this government. Of course, this is some schizophrenic thing that no one understands, and the main thing is that Ukrainian citizens don't understand. What is the solution to this situation today? First and best: Arsenij Yatzenuk as Prime Minister can today, he has a whole day to do this, to resign. To say that, "you see, Parliament has not been able to resign me, but I cannot implement my programme with parliament, which considers my actions unsatisfactory, and that's why I'm going." That'll be brave. It'll be worth it. Then all the positives that have been in the work of this government, and they are, these positives, they will be appreciated. Above all, it will be the courageous step of a man, not a politician, but a statesman. Arsenius Yatzenuk can prove today that he is not a politician but a statesman. I will personally wait for such a statement from the Prime Minister today. And I think that's the best way out. The other one. I would like to address the voters of Odessa, Dnepropetrovsk, Zaporozsky, Kharkiv and other areas, many of whom voted in favour of the Opposition Block. It's kind of crazy, what we saw yesterday. On 1 February, Yuri Boyko said that we would resign the Government. On 15 November, Vadim Rabinović said: “It was the Government that opened the country to zero, and the Opposition Block, the opposition bloc, will vote in favour of the resignation of the Government.” Eight votes from the 43rd yesterday. Respectable voters, 8 votes in favour of the resignation of the Government of Yatsenuk, out of 43 members of the Office. When you go to the shops tomorrow, and you see prices you don't like, it's the Cloud. When you pay for the tariffs, it's the Cloud. They have full responsibility for the Government of Yatsenuk. From this moment forward. And the last. I'm addressing my distinguished colleagues from the Self-Help faction. Our colleagues from the Self-Help faction did not come to Parliament today. I think it's wrong. People's deputies don't go here for Yatzenuk, not for Colomoysky, not for a leader. People's deputies come here for the voters of Ukraine who voted for them. This is where they work. What do you mean, "We won't come to the vote"? What do you mean, "We're not coming to work in Parliament"? I'm gonna cut my grandma's ears off. Who's gonna make it worse? Today the teacher goes to school not because he likes the director, the doctor goes to work not because he loves the department, but because the teacher is for the children, the doctor is for the patients, and the national deputy is for the citizens who elected him. And that's why I consider the self-help position that didn't come today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u30	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u31	And I hope that they will return to Parliament tomorrow and work. Because Ukraine needs parliament, even though it happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u32	Last act, colleagues. Fedoruk gives Burbak his word for the performance. And let's move on to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, yesterday the government's report took place in Parliament's walls for the first time, which for four hours was discussed and reported to us before the MPs. For the first time, we were able to ask questions, first of all critical remarks, sometimes critical and constructive. But it was mostly demagogies and the hysteria of politicians. I still support that yesterday's responsibility prevailed in Parliament: responsibility for Ukraine's future, responsibility for tomorrow, responsibility for the economy and for our citizens. Yesterday we passed the responsibility exam, and yesterday there was a report. Yes, the MPs voted in favour of being a negative, government work. But this is also a report of the coalition support of its coalition government as well, this is an assessment of how parliament also supports the government's decision. Let's look at the facts. Only 39 percent of the initiatives proposed by the government were supported in this room, and we also need to look at the mirror at times. And now I'm talking to our coalition colleagues: stop knitting intrigues. Please let us unite around what we should do this year. Last week, the government approved the 2016 action programme. There are 379 decisions that need to be supported in this session hall, and we need to unite and work now to make sure that the dollar is not too big to continue our cooperation with the IMF, in order to do the main task of introducing a visa-free regime for our citizens. So let's get together and build our European state of Ukraine. Enough demagogies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a day-to-day ratification. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellows, when you speak from the hall, I just don't hear from you often, so if you don't mind, you can just come up and say it. Look, we now have ratification issues that aren't conflicting, and at the same time we don't have many of our colleagues at work. Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the discussion. And if we see that there are no votes, we're going to use the formula that we've been working on to translate into the "earlier issues" section. But at least we could talk. [[B in m in s a l in]] We could at least talk. But, colleagues, in order for us to be able to fully discuss regulations and laws, we need -- in order for this to be effective, I mean -- to consider the reduced procedure. And so if I were to review the reduced procedure, I would like to ask everyone in the hall to support us so that we can discuss more laws today. Do we have a deal? So, dear colleagues, please come into the hall, who is in the towers, and prepare for the vote. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. Dear colleagues, on a daily basis we have a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. There's a proposal for us to consider this bill in a simplified way. Colleagues, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Please take part in the vote for the summary procedure. [[10:41:42]] For-94 Not all of them have made it. Then I'll put it to the vote again. If there are no votes, we will consider the full procedure, colleagues. I'm saying, when we're talking about a crisis, the first step that we can take to solve it, you know what? Go to work. Go to work, you know. And then tell you how bad things are in the country. In the heads of the crisis, you know, not in the country and in the fact that there are simply no deputies to work and there are broadcasts about how it is impossible to live in the country. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'll put it to the vote again. I am voting on the proposal to ratify the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[10:42:55]] For the 120th. There is no political will to consider the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I invite you to report to the Minister of Infrastructure, Andriy Mikolaiovich. In the morning, Mrs. Irina, there was a registration. The registration took place. According to the registration, the number of deputies is enough to work. Who reports the law? Ministers. Please report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u35	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national deputies, good afternoon! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathian Republic is proposed for the completion of the internal State procedure necessary for the entry into force of the Protocol of 26 September 2014 in the city of Mikulov. The objective of the Permanent Transport Protocol is to strengthen and promote cooperation between the Carpathian countries in the development of continuous freight and passenger transport and related transport infrastructure and to contribute to the continued development of the region. In line with the Protocol, countries will cooperate in the following areas: planning and development of permanent transport and transport infrastructures that take into account the characteristics of the mountain environment; policy on the continuous development of multimodal transport, which provides socio-economic benefits of mobility and access to urban, rural, remote and Carpathian areas; development and promotion of environmentally sound models and transport systems, particularly in environmentally sensitive areas; integration of permanent transport planning and traffic management in Carpathians, avoiding overcapacity through the Carpathians; provision of structural capacity for the transport network:; improvement or support of transport infrastructure in terms of efficiency, security, security of passenger and freight mobility. There are no political points here, so there is a huge request for support. This Protocol is aimed exclusively at the development of the region as well as of Ukraine. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u36	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Hopko Committee, Anna Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It is extremely important today to support the ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommended that Parliament support the specified Protocol by ratifying it. The ratification of the Protocol will create the right conditions for intensifying the cooperation of the Carpathian countries aimed at ensuring the development of permanent cargo and passenger transport and appropriate transport infrastructure in the Carpathians for the benefit of present and future generations. I would like to point out that Carpathian transport infrastructure is now far from satisfactory. No one has taken this matter seriously for decades. And it's thanks to the application of the protocol that we, along with other countries in the Carpathian region, will finally be able to develop continuous transport here. The environmental orientation of the document should be noted separately. According to an explanatory note to a bill signed by the Minister of Infrastructure, the implementation of the provisions of the protocol does not provide for additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine. Also, colleagues, anyone who visited Ukrainian Carpathians who traveled to Poland or Hungary, saw how important it was to us in cross-border cooperation to improve infrastructure and to ensure the development of tourism. And so we would very much like to ratify this protocol today, because it is coming out of the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians. The so-called Carpathian Convention, which was held in Kiev in 2003, when the Ministerial Conference of Environment Ministers was signed. And it is important for us to fulfil our obligations under article 8 of the Carpathian Convention to realize how vulnerable the ecosystem and landscapes of Carpathians are, to understand how crucial the transport system is to the quality of life of the population and to contribute to economic growth and job creation. So we have many tasks ahead of us. And I would like to thank those national MPs who, working in groups of friendship with Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, have made contacts for our Carpathian region to feel well, we have taken care to protect biodiversity, and to implement the principles of sustainable development in accordance with the International Convention on Permanent Development, which was still in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for a coconspirator? Any questions? No questions asked. There's a show, right? Here's the question point. And now come out of the factions for three minutes. I'm asking you to record so that factions' heads can speak on this issue, the factions. Please. A radical party. Artemenko's handing it over to Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, the Radical Party faction will support all ratification bills, including an extremely important project to refer the Supreme Council to the anniversary of annexation, the military annexation of our Crimea by the Russian Federation. Like the chairman of the plenary meeting of Andria Parbia, I am outraged when MPs do not go to work. It's an absolutely irresponsible attitude, it's indignant to millions of Ukrainian citizens when people ask a very simple question: why do we pay you money that has to be put to the vote 20 times the same question; that MPs like harmful children in the sandbox are running, and then the head of the miserable one is going to drag them to the bathers. People are even proposing solutions to this problem: whether to lock up the Supreme Council Hall when MPs were sent here, whether to release them, or whether to put the biotuals right here in the hall, so that they don't go out, or anything else. Well, the people are just not making up their minds to finally get Parliament to work. And I think there's a more radical way to solve this problem, is to reduce the number of deputies. Here's to figure out how many people go to Parliament: 200 people go to Parliament -- 200 people, and there's got to be the number of members of the Supreme Council. And when 450 is chosen and 200 is chosen, where are 250 Darmoids? And I'll tell you where, as Minister Abromavichus has already said, they go or lobby their people for some kind of "bread" position, or they go to the prosecutor's office, they decide their questions to avoid responsibility, or they decide any questions, not just those that need to be resolved in the hall. A national MP, a plenary week, is supposed to be sitting in the hall, not coming out, from the phone to the phone. Just like a teacher does, like a doctor does, like a milkmaid does, a piggy if there's still a farm somewhere in our miserable villages. So I call for the responsibility of the national MPs, come and don't make fun of the people. And come, and vote. Because this is being discredited by the Ukrainian Parliament. This will discredit our voters. Because people voted, and then they see that those for whom they voted forgot about people. They do not keep the promises with which they went to the elections. The Radical Party faction is almost complete, except for colleagues who, unfortunately, want them to recover, work in the Parliament Hall today, and yesterday, and God willing, we will work as hard as the Ukrainian people will authorize us to do. Finally. I am most outraged by the Pharisees. I watched a speech this morning from a group of factions who said that the issue of the resignation of the government had failed yesterday. Cynicism is that the faction didn't vote for it, and now they're going out saying that, you see, what a tragedy that failed the resignation of the government. That was the way to vote. And there would be no tragedy. Cynicism is debilitating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u40	From Oxana Jurinec's Petar Dust Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u41	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! It is very important to ratify this agreement today. And I would like to stress from this point of view, as the head of the regional development subcommittee, cross-border cooperation and head of the interfractional association Carpathian on February 27th in Premyśl, there will be a meeting with Mr. Kuchtinski, the speaker of the Polish Parliament, who has taken great care of it and has done everything to ensure that Europe Carpathian is able to coexist today so that all of these countries that enter, which are united by Carpathians themselves, can coexist. We're ratifying one part today -- it's environmental issues that apply to this convention. But there's a much larger and broader spectrum of what we can do in this direction. In fact, people, countries, can only be united by what they are given naturally today. For if this union is artificial, it will have no effect. But our country has the opportunity to develop today and indeed to make an economic breakthrough, thanks to regional development and cross-border cooperation. That's right. The economy of environmental use, after which there will really be an effect for many years. What is important is that it will be February 27 to discuss the issue of youth cooperation, the cooperation of those with many ideas that can be implemented. It's also the development and planning of how enterprises operating in the Carpathian Euroregion will be able to develop, have their own quality standards. I want to remind you that only in Europe is Carpathian one country that is not a member of the European Union today is Ukraine. All other countries are members of the European Union who have their own rules that they want to coexist today. Unfortunately, yesterday what happened in Parliament is that every time you try to do something in this country, it can break down about cynicism, about certain games that don't work for this country. Still, you have to work every day, doing your job well. Otherwise, neither our neighbors nor those living in and out of the Carpathians will understand us. A healthy mind for each of us so that we can make the right decisions. Stop serving those who seem to define politics or geopolitics today, just be human. This covenant is very important because it will talk about the normal coexistence of different countries. Thank you all for your attention. And I ask you to support this agreement today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Germany gives the performance to Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u43	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Wednesday is a day of ratifications that benefit Ukraine. If you look at all the transcripts from the beginning of this Supreme Council's office, you'll see that the Opposition Block is always in a stately position and is in favour. Very often, that's 60 percent, or maybe 70 votes for ratification without the Opposition Block in this session room would not be accepted. There was an event yesterday that must have a sign accent. We keep talking about the fact that this government was not professional. No one listened to us when we were on the eve of a vote. The voting part of the hall took responsibility for that government. What do you want from this government and those personnel? They were the same year ago, they are today, and they will be like that tomorrow. The other question is, we have to send out a message of responsibility for our work today. We want the doctor to be responsible for the quality of his operation, so that people can be held accountable for their choice. Who is responsible for the government’s activities? The coalition answers today. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is an employer, and he hires a government. You hired this government -- you're responsible. And unfortunately, other than the People's Front, no faction has said that it is responsible. Today, I'm going to say to everyone who's pointing his finger towards the Cloud today, with our hands, you're not going to solve your carpet thing. You have 300 votes, take them off the job. Are you going to ask us how you're going to appoint new people? You only want to share your quotas. We have been shown that there is no quota government. Today they say they belong to the WFP, and they belong, there, to the People's Front. You are responsible for the work of this government. If you're responsible politicians, you have to say, this government worked in a bad way, we assigned it, we're responsible to people, because what's relevant to state laws, the Opposition Block voted in favour. You see, almost a hundred bills, where you didn't vote on social bills, on the economics, the Opposition Block added to you, you didn't throw your fingers in that direction. And today you have to have an elementary conscience and responsibility to the electorate, all corruption. Can you please tell the government that there's at least one member of the Environment? You're talking, corruption. So who's the corrupter for today? Who promised humans to overcome all of this? You promised. And have the power of spirit and conscience to come and say, "We have a consolidated responsibility." And if you want to talk about opposition, you didn't have to break the law. You will be in it tomorrow, and there will be no law, and again you will be to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u44	Yes, the factions discussed the bill. And yet Front hasn't said his position on the bill. Please, Maxim Burbak. Maxim Burbak. Oh, who's gonna talk? Yes, complete procedure, now proceed from factions. So those factions that didn't have a word, they can get that word. Then there will be speeches by the deputies. Now it's simple which factions didn't act. "The People's Front" didn't have a performance. Please, Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u45	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill, because we do understand that freight and passenger transport and appropriate transport infrastructure need the support of both our Western partners and our state. Because the development of transport infrastructure is involving investments, it's creating new jobs, and yet it's responsible for the development of our country. As a senior deputy, I will also support this bill, and I urge all of our colleagues to unite and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, now we have speeches from the national MPs, three minutes. I'm asking you to do the recording. We are recorded by clicking on a button, not by raising a hand. Please hold the recording. From the People's Front, the River Andriy Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u48	Please, Teteruk, right? Oh, Fedoruk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I also, as the deputy mayor of the Chernivets region of the city of Chernivts, support this ratification bill. Because, as has been pointed out here, this allows us to develop this region, which is very important in our country. And it allows you to develop its recreational and other opportunities to change and strengthen infrastructure. That's why I call on all the national MPs to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u50	Thank you. The same is Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u51	Please give Krivenka your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u52	Please, Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We will certainly support this bill. In the past year, much has been done to develop transportation infrastructure in the Carpathian region, and this year we must not stop. But I also wanted to use the time to discuss yesterday’s disgraceful vote for 3,700. Because we actually opened up a secondary market for selling places. Because now those who are going to be in tails, now, again, probably political leaders are running out of money, and now they're going to say, "Who wants the 47th, 159th, who wants to go to Parliament, please give the money -- and we're going to exclude those who stand before you, and we're going to bring them to Parliament." I think the next iteration is going to be the law that we can now post to the lists, and we're going to take these initiatives. This is a shameful practice condemned by all the social organizations that are called upon. I think Janukovic is just jealous of us because the factions that voted for it have no right to call themselves democratic any more. So two factions, Self-help and Fatherhood, didn't even come to work today. So I urge the speaker not to sign. I call upon the President, if signed, to promise this bill, because it is a disgrace to their families for the rest of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u55	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Ukrainians, of course, have an important bill to vote on, but perhaps today is of interest and concern to all citizens of Ukraine for a little bit of another reason, namely, about that farce and that contractual match that was here yesterday in Parliament. In sports, a viable disqualification takes place in the fights. And the exact same story was here: the key players of yesterday's "contractor" knew from the very beginning what was going to happen. All of this was regulated, all of this was controlled. And yesterday, in fact, parliament could if it didn't stop completely, at least partially remove the tension in society, sending this completely bankrupt government of marauders to retirement. But instead, most MPs yesterday threw the country into a deep political crisis. And now it's no longer a matter of a parliamentary or governmental crisis, it's a matter of trust, a crisis of trust that has arisen in Ukrainian society today to the present power and to all the institutions in power. Because you don't have to "tell tales," because today's government, which remains after yesterday's disgraceful vote, is holding on to the voices of a part of the so-called former coalition and so on in the voices of the Opposition Block, the Rebirth, the Wills of the People, and so on, the voices of ex-regionals. In fact, they are today the main beneficiaries of this government. And this government said something about fighting the oligarchs when it was the oligarchic groups that held it! It was the oligarchs’ voices that did not vote in favour of resignation yesterday. Do you talk about reforms? Are you going to talk about fighting the oligarchs? Here's the real answer to the question why it happened. And now, society, I want to say the following. If that Parliament did that yesterday. And notice, this happened again on the 16th, this was done on January 16th, then on September 16, the law on the so-called features of the local government of Donetsk and Lugansk in 2014 was adopted here with the board turned off, now this! We should probably ban the 16th from voting in Parliament at all. But it is! Actually, that's not the problem. The problem is that, in principle, the Parliament, which is taking such irresponsible steps, is already asking itself the question of its existence. Does Ukraine need such a parliament? My opinion is not necessary, because today it covers political corruption and the treaty. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u56	Fedoruk conveys the word to Doubenko. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u57	Doubenko, 84th constituency, Ivano-Frankiv district. Colleagues, the ratification of the Permanent Transport Protocol is not only a solution to the serious infrastructure problem of freight and passenger transport, it is also an important infrastructure problem that enables us to develop cross-border and cross-border cooperation between those eight countries that are part of the Euro-Carpathian region. I want to tell you that cross-border cooperation will be discussed at another parliamentary meeting, including in the Polish Parliament on February 27th. And I would like to invite all of you to vote today in favour of ratifying this protocol so that we have every reason to demonstrate once again that the Ukrainian Parliament and our European Coalition have consistently and persistently moved to comply with our coalition agreement to those. a solution to the questions that we have entered into this covenant. The other one. What I'm saying is that the solution to the ratification of the Steel Transport Protocol is to solve many of the problems related to the investment of the countries of the Euro-Carpathian region, to the humanitarian development of these countries and so on. I want to say that last month, last January, we had serious negotiations with our Euro-carpathian parliamentarians. The countries of the European Carpathian region in Lodz, where previous agreements have been reached, we need to go out on a broader understanding of the problem and get out to form an inter-parliamentary Eurocarpathian assembly. The Eurocarpathian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly will allow us to develop our plans and programmes in a coherent manner for the 8th countries in the Eurocarpathic region. I want to say that the previous agreement has been reached that we can hold such a first consensus meeting on the formation of the Eurocarpat Inter-Parliamentary Assembly in Jaremchi, and there is support from our Polish parliamentarians, from other countries. And I think it's going to be another step in order for us to develop our European perspective quite intensively and in line with the plans and tasks that we have set ourselves in the Coalition Agreement. I therefore call for the ratification of the Protocol on Constant Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u58	Thank you. Svetlana Petrovna’s patronage conveys the word to Sergey Lechchenkov in the discussion of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u59	Good afternoon, colleagues. Of course, we are currently discussing a very urgent bill, but since there are no most deputies in the room, this law is doomed to failure, even though we will support it. But it's a good opportunity to talk about what happened yesterday in front of the whole country. In the eyes of the whole country, there's an oligarchic counter-revolution, and there's a conspiracy. In doing so, the cynical participants in this conspiracy are both representatives of the authorities and representatives of the opposition. Unfortunately, Peter Dustenka's Block has also become a part of this conspiracy. Instead of resigning the government, we have preserved this government in power. Instead of doing redundancies and cleaning, we create some illusion that only delays the collapse. What's really going on? Cologne left that government in power. And that's clear, because Colomoyski is a partner of Yatzenuk, and the right hand of Yatzenyuk, Ivanchuk, is a business partner of the Cologne. Ahmedov left this government in power. Why? Because Ahmethov supports the government of Yatsenyuk, and the right hand of Yatzenyuk in the government is formerly a fellow worker of Ahmtov. Lewocken supports this government because the ADHD group didn't add votes, and we know about the connections between the strike group and Lewocken. Similarly, the business environment of Dustenka did not vote in favour of resigning the government. We're all being used cynically, and they said we were going to do a reboot. They collected the faction, gave orders to vote in favour of resignation. Then comes the Prime Minister, reporting from this rostrum. The question of the government’s job being considered unsatisfactory is then put to the vote. Most votes 247, in favour. In 15 minutes, there is a vote in favour of resigning the government. And most of it disappears. This exhibition takes place in front of the entire country. They'd go in the ranks, they'd call, they'd pass on the pipes, and they'd say, "Run from the Supreme Council. Run so there won't be any votes for resigning the government." For that reason, both these deputies and those deputies were told. They did. In general, there was a circus in front of the whole of Ukraine, when the "will of the people" group, it sits, they take out the cards when they vote in favour of the resignation of the government of Yatsenuk, the issue goes down. After the government has not resigned, they go, they say, "I'm sorry, we made a mistake. We wanted to press the pros button. Instead of pushing, they just pulled the cards. That's the same thing at the Dust Block. Telephones, headphones, and phone calls came and went, saying that there would be no votes for the resignation of the government of Yatsenuk. And the whole community was told, "We're going to reboot." But in addition to that, there is still a terrible phenomenon. There is a rematch in anti-corruption legislation. Yesterday, this Parliament abolished criminal responsibility for lying in declarations. For a year all politicians can lie in declarations and say that they have that property, they don't have it. There will be no responsibility for this lie. This Parliament adopted Law 3700 that party leaders can introduce party dictatorship and remove from the list of disagreeable deputies. This Parliament wants to assign the Attorney General, who is dependent on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u60	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u61	This Parliament wants to empower the Attorney-General to reject candidates for an independent anti-corruption prosecutor. And this Parliament is preparing a draft of the Zero Declaration Act, an amnesty of corruption, so that all corrupts with wealth can declare their corruption assets and from now on not be held criminally responsible. That's what's happening in this Supreme Council right now. So I urge all citizens to push politicians to make this counter-revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we are discussing today's ratification of an important bill. But I want to remind you that it's obvious that we're all thinking about yesterday's disgrace in this session room. And in a government that's really trying to make it look like nothing's happened today, there's almost a year no minister of ecology. So we're discussing environmental issues, but the government doesn't have a minister of ecology. And a coalition that doesn't exist today, either, after what happened yesterday in Parliament, has failed to delegate the minister of ecology. And it's obvious that today we still have two important bills in our agenda after that, and this is a decree condemning the annexation of Crimea, and this is also a decree, including for my authorship, on how to appeal to parliaments and countries of the world regarding their reaction, and not having a response to the statements of the pro-Russian militants about the possibility of applying the death penalty to hostages in the occupied territories, but there are no deputies in the room today who can support it. And that's why I'm asking the chairman to withdraw Decree 4071 today from the agenda. We cannot but vote for it because it will be a disgrace if our Parliament does not give its votes, because they are simply not in favour of such an important decision. But the fact that there are no deputies in the room today is not just a question, really, an irresponsible attitude to their work, but it is, in fact, a legitimate reaction to what happened yesterday in Parliament. Obviously, we cannot make the appearance of such a banal vote today: well, there were no votes found, whereas less than 200 votes were cast for the government's mistrust, and the previous decision for the government's unsatisfactory report was some 247 votes. Where were the 40 deputies? What happened during this time? And it's very clear to me that today we are going into a serious political crisis, the worst political crisis that is a crisis of trust not only between the government and the coalition, but not just a crisis of trust in the BBC faction that, unfortunately, has taken the same form. I played a very unbelievably role in this scenario yesterday, but it's also a crisis. Parliament's serious crisis. And our Western partners, who were most afraid of early elections, and thus also protected the Yatsenuk government, can actually see today that after such a decision, after what happened in Parliament, we are taking seven steps towards early elections. But at the same time, all the figures in this play lose their faces. What is the solution? That's honesty, first of all. The honesty of a government that has lost confidence, the integrity of a coalition that played a very shameful performance yesterday, without trusting the government, without adding votes, as if on the resignation of the government of life ends. But life in Ukraine will end if we do not return to reform. And they are not taking place today, including in environmental matters, and this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Burbak Maxim. And that will be the last performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to discuss very important bills that will still contribute to the development of Ukraine's economy. But we can see that in these speeches, everyone is now discussing yesterday's events in Parliament. He heard many interesting stories from one speaker who was behind him. Sometimes it is interesting to look in the mirror. What some deputies do at night with the heads of ODA in restaurants in Kiev, discussing possible parliamentary elections. Let's be honest. That some factions, some MPs, are doing everything they can to jump into the new political projects and run the parliamentary elections more quickly. And who would benefit from that? Who enjoys it? And I'm sure that's what a Russian aggressor is doing right now, thinking about how to shake up the situation in Ukraine in order to still be denied cooperation with the IMF, so that destabilisation would still be in Ukraine and it would be easier to resolve its issues. So let's give an honest answer: who's comfortable with it and who's currently working on sub dances in Russian aggressors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The closing word, is there a need in the closing word? None. We, therefore, colleagues, can go to the vote. Please, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, of course, I'll put it to the vote first. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Please vote, signal vote, 0081. [[11:18:44]] For 175 There are no votes needed. Colleagues, I'll let you know to get your emotions out, we're talking about bills, we'll be able to vote when there's enough people in the room. When I'm being told from the hall, close it up, so to change our working hours, we need 226 votes to vote that we're not finishing work at 2nd, let's say at 12th. Is there room potential for that? None. And so please stay in the workplace and continue your work. Colleagues, this is the next bill, which we're transferring to the section "earlier discussed." Next 0085: draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support the reduced procedure. Please, 0085 is a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:20:08]] For-147 Not all of them have made it, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall again, take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm re-voting the short-circuited procedure. Colleagues, please support, please vote, summary procedure 0085. Please vote. [[11:20:39]] For-147 We're following full procedure, aren't we? We didn't make it, did we? Society, I do not find it difficult to follow the full procedure. Let me do the third time. If there are no votes, let's go over the full procedure. Please, I'm once again proposing a reduced procedure. If there's support in the hall. Okay. None. We will also consider this bill, the previous one, by full procedure. So I would like to vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:21:29]] For-146 There is a political will to consider the full procedure. And I invite Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Nephodov Maksim Evgenovich to report on the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u67	The honourable national deputies of the Ukrainian bill are joining the Treaty on State Procurement and the World Trade Organization. It's very simple, but on the other hand, it's a very important document. A very important deal that we went to for four years, because the former authorities were absolutely not interested in it. For 12 years, Ukraine's market has been completely open to any foreign supplier, while the market of member countries is 44 countries, including 28 EU countries, the US, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea and so on. These public purchasing markets for Ukrainian exporters are closed. We had successful negotiations in Geneva, we agreed to join the agreement on exactly the same terms as Ukrainian buyers in Ukraine. And so the ratification of this agreement will allow Ukrainian exporters to participate successfully in purchases. We did a survey and found that for more than 30 percent of Ukrainian exporters, this event is really interesting. We have companies right now that are ready from the following month after the ratification of this agreement to participate in tenders. For example, in a tender in Ireland with Irish police to identify potential criminals. So I very much ask all deputies to support this ratification. It is not in any way political. This is an economic bill that helps our exporters. In addition, it will allow us to strengthen the position of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Geneva negotiations. You know we haven't been a reliable partner in years. We are now showing to all the countries of the world that Ukraine can be counted on as a stable, civilized country. And finally, it improves our image, it potentially leads to an increase in investment in the country, it gives us the opportunity to use this status to negotiate with other countries that are joining the agreement. This is how the negotiations between China and Australia are now proceeding. I'm sure it would be very interesting for Ukrainian diplomats to make any demands or suggestions to these partners. So I ask you very much to support this bill. I very much ask that he be put to the vote. I hope everyone gathers and there are still voices. Banal every week, when we wait with him, it means that Ukrainian companies can't export to these tenders in a banal way, they're legally closed to them. It's definitely a victory. In fact, over the course of the year, we completed those negotiations, which went without result for three years, and we exchanged letters. We're one of the fastest countries to go through this process. I can tell you that Moldova has joined this agreement faster than Ukraine. Well, I'm sorry, but with all due respect to Moldovan colleagues, it would be kind of rude to fall behind. So I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Please stay. We have a section of questions to the reporter and then a co-reporter. It's a complete procedure. Because I can see there might be questions in the hall. Any questions to the reporter? It doesn't, does it? Then please thank you for the report. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna. There's a question, right? None. To Gunny. Thank you. Please, Anna Mikolayevna. Asked a question to Hani Mikolayevni already. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council support this bill as a whole. Why is this bill so important to us? Because as a result of the accession to the World Trade Organization Agreement on State Procurement and its further implementation, there will be opening up access for Ukrainian companies to new international markets with annual purchases of $1.7 trillion. It will also be positive for the creation of an image of Ukraine that implements better international standards in public procurement, contributing to proactive anti-corruption policies. Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty will facilitate the participation of international investors in Ukraine’s market. And it is very important that this will be a signal to the international community that Ukraine is pursuing the right policy of reforming the public procurement system, creating an effective and transparent trading environment, reducing corruption. This contributes to the implementation of the provisions on the active integration of Ukraine with the EU. I would like to say that even at the meeting of the WTO Committee on State Procurement held on 11 November 2015, the parties to the WTO Agreement have adopted decisions on Ukraine's accession to the WTO Treaty, as confirmed by the decision of the Committee on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on State Procurement since 16 November 2015. The WTO Agreement is one of the most important international agreements in the field of public procurement, which recognizes the Framework for State Procurement by countries that are parties to the WTO Treaty, namely 44 member countries, including 28 EU countries, also the US, Japan, Canada, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Korea. It is extremely important that our Ukrainian companies now have access to annual purchases of $1.7 trillion. So it's very important that we be able to ratify this agreement today. Regrettably, there are no political forces in this room today that pay taxpayers to serve Ukraine’s interests. But I very much hope that if not today, tomorrow we will be able to ratify this very important agreement. And we're not going to talk to you in this room about the political crisis, but we're going to think about how to get the state out of the situation that it is, ratifying international documents, working together with potential incests into the country. And this requires that parliament work actively with government and with public organizations rather than sabotage decisions without coming to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Anna Mikolayevna, stay in the rostrum. There will be questions. Anna Mikolayevna, please come back, I'll ask you. And I'd like you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please record, please, who wants to ask a question. Please. Please, Chizmar. He's handing it over to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u71	Anna Mikolayevna — Is It Betrayal or Victory?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, I think on the question of whether it's betrayal or victory, I'd like to say that all those who talk so much about "all gone," "the betrayal," and so on, they should think about future generations. And if you evaluate the results, which is $1.7 trillion U.S. when Ukrainian companies have access to the international purchasing market, I think it's obvious that it's a victory and our companies' ability to make money, create new jobs. And I want to say that since 2011, when Ukraine applied to join the WTO treaty, we still haven't been able to ratify it. So, actually, right now, at 16, we're only doing our duty and helping Ukrainian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to point out that this is a presidential bill. Well, it's clear that in this room after yesterday's vote and discussion, the government's bills will not be able to get the required number -- 226 votes. Do you think the Presidential Bill in this room today will win 226 votes or not, and why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, yesterday, when you voted for 3,700, it was actually a party dictatorship that didn't matter to you -- the Presidential, the Prime Minister. You've joined a coalition, one coalition. And so I would like to say that as far as the interests of the state are concerned, it doesn't matter who's proposing the bill. Let's fight which better bill will bring to Parliament, defending Ukraine's interests, and now blasphemy: which bill did you submit would have a conscience. And that is why I propose to vote in favour of this law today. There will be no votes today, tomorrow, I hope very much that people will arrive and that the laws that we will discuss today will be found tomorrow, not 226, but more. Because I do hope that the patriots in this room are much more than the ones who play on the Kremlin's hand and the scenarios of the next election, and the scenarios of the political crisis. So I appeal to the political consciousness of the political class, which may not have been formed to the end, but which thinks of Ukraine. And the Opposition Block, including, should vote in favour of those decisions that your electorate, all of Ukraine's informed citizens, are useful and it doesn't matter: the President has made or the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u76	Thank you. Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u77	I have a question for Mr. Nephodov. I really think that reforming public procurement and some of the achievements in deregulation are what the Ministry of Economics has done. In my opinion, that's 10 percent of what the Ministry of Economics had to do. Please tell me your personal opinion, because I consider you and the minister not corrupt, but unfortunately, it's not exactly a profession. So what do you think the real achievements are in the Ministry of Economics, besides these two spheres? Is this just your position as a decent expert, where jobs are created? Because yesterday, the Prime Minister was boasting about what the harvest was, you see, 36 million. It's a good thing they didn't fall down on sundays. It's a good thing you didn't brag about the amount of rain. What has your ministry done, and what is your plan? You're gonna work, you're gonna quit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. Look, the three major reforms the Ministry is working on doesn't mean they're the only ones, but that means they're the three most important ones. The first is deregulation, the second is government management, and the third is public procurement reform. These are reforms that are defined both by the Coalition Agreement and by the President 2020 plan and, accordingly, by the work plan of the Ukrainian government. All these three reforms work in unison, they work to clear up the regulatory field and enable the Ukrainian business to work freely, and to make effective use of the public funds that business pays in the form of taxes or those that. assets belonging to the people of Ukraine. Once again, these assets work for the people of Ukraine, not for corrupters. In all of these three reforms we have achievements, we have problems in all of these three reforms, because there is a real fight for the active use of these funds. I'm willing to communicate with you personally or with any group of MPs collectively and show us the progress report in each of these directions. And I'm sure we're not ashamed of this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u79	Thank you. And one last question. Vladimir Gusak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u80	Good afternoon! I have a question for Mr. Nephrodov, Deputy Minister. It's very good that a lot of people have said that this bill will contribute to the work of Ukrainian exporters and contribute to the increase in exports. Because that's really an emergency. Dear colleagues, in the last two years, exports from Ukraine have dropped twice. It's at the level of a national economic disaster. But I would like to ask, if I may, not with slogans, but specifically, would the adoption of this bill affect government procurement in Ukraine? And in particular, will this help to overcome corruption in government purchases that have recently gained, frankly, simply unheard of scales? And also in the purchases of state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u81	Thank you so much for asking. Look, first question. How does this affect purchases in Ukraine? No way. I'm repeating myself. What I said in my speech, for at least 12 years, Ukrainian purchases have been open to any foreign participant, with the number of these foreign participants in 2014 -- in 2015, we don't have statistics -- was less than 0.3 percent. And all of them, almost all of these 0.3 percent were exclusively military. Why is that? Because you understand very well that most foreign companies are significantly larger than Ukrainian companies. They're taking part in our purchases, not as foreign legal entities, they're creating units here, they're going to be factories here, they're bringing investment here, or at least they're opening their representations here. So for Ukrainian purchases, it doesn't take any risk. That's why this is such a disproportionate situation that's been going on for 12 years, and that's what we're correcting right now by opening up a mirror market for foreign state purchases for Ukrainian companies. As to whether this allows us to fight corruption. In a way, of course, yes. This is indirectly a sign of the quality of the Ukrainian public procurement system, because we have been audited, including the one that conducted the EBRD at the request of the World Trade Organization to show that our procurement legislation is not discriminatory. I am very grateful to all the deputies that you supported our 2057 law in the fall, which was amended in the Ukrainian procurement legislation just to harmonize it with the best world standards. And I think that's exactly how cooperation with international organizations gives us motivation and knowledge to improve national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Question time is set. Thank you. And now we have three minutes of factions. Dear colleagues, please record the factions of the factions. Please. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Papiev. Then simply report this information to the microphone. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected citizens of Ukraine, who observe these events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! You know, this bill, I'm going to start with it, it's a very important bill, and I was just asking the reporter a question, why she couldn't answer essentially. But it needs to be voted in, and it needs to be the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, first of all, because it is a bill that implements the position of the World Trade Organization in Ukraine, and this is a bill that was introduced by the President of Ukraine. And I would like to see that when this bill is voted on, it's not governmental to have these squabbles that are currently in the coalition, so that they don't affect the vote, so that this bill is adopted. That was my question. The opposition bloc will vote in favour of this bill, because we are the people who support Ukraine's movement into civil trade conditions, and in order to benefit Ukrainian citizens. Now essentially. What happened yesterday. I'll explain to you and tell you what happened yesterday. Yesterday, there was a handover of an estaphet baton because, in fact, yesterday, the coalition wanted to deceive the Ukrainian people once more and move away from the responsibility of a coalition. Because yesterday no one mentioned that you have a coalition agreement, and you wanted to quietly write it all down on this impeccable government and stay here and say, "We're strong as ever. Let's continue the Coalition Agreement, let's bring some other tourist from the Cayman Islands, give him two days' citizenship and he'll run the country's economy." Your Honor, that's not gonna work. The coalition today must bear political responsibility to the citizens of Ukraine and to the people. And by the logic of the matter, the political factions that voted yesterday for the mistrust of the government, today, if they have morality, political responsibility and conscience, they are to get out of this coalition today. For how can Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk continue to be in the coalition and vote for Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk? It doesn't make any sense. So I would like the members of the coalition not to deceive Ukrainian citizens, to deceive voters, to find courage, and to leave the coalition. And whatever new or will not be created is better than going to the elections, and so that Ukrainian citizens can recharge all power in Ukraine, and that this is the Ukrainian authorities, not pro-American, not pro-Russian, but pro-Ukrainian. And I call on all the Ukrainian national deputies to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u84	Mikola Fedoruk, People's Front. He's handing it over to Oleg Medunice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u85	First of all, I want to thank the government officials who work at the Ministry of Economics for their work, perhaps irreprehensible. Perhaps not irreprehensible, more faithful, but precisely for the work they were experiencing. For those laws of deregulation that we have supported, that they have developed with us, for those changes to the State Procurement Act, for the electronic purchases that the government has brought here to the Supreme Council Hall, and we have supported and are now working and saving huge resources for the state and local budgets. Now, speaking of this law that we're discussing right now, I want to go back to yesterday. Just yesterday, standing on this rostrum, representing the greatest. The leader of the largest faction in our Parliament complained to the Prime Minister and the government that the government does not create jobs, that the government does not care about exporters. And now we're looking at a presidential bill that was drafted by government officials, which actually allows Ukraine to create jobs, create additional revenue into government and local budgets. And this faction manager is not in the hall. And there's not a lot of people in the hall. And there aren't any factions here last night that have polluted the government and reproached the government with the same thing. They will not be able to vote in favour of this law because they are not in the hall. The law that will give our exporters real opportunities. We've just failed, we've actually failed the Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Constant Transport and we haven't been able to help our economy. I now call upon all the deputies who are in the Supreme Council, who may not be in the Hall, to return to the Hall and together with our faction of the People's Front, who unanimously supports this necessary law for Ukraine and for our producers, to try to vote on this law, to find 226 votes so that our companies can work so that the workers can have a salary so that the budgets have additional revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u86	Thank you. The factions have already brought forth all those who desire. The next chapter is speeches by the national MPs. Dear colleagues, please record the performance by the national deputies. Please. Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u87	Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u88	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u89	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Today, Ukraine has a very important draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty on State Procurement. This agreement envisions Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization Treaty and the establishment of agreements in Ukraine. For us today, it is vital that Ukraine integrate into world society as a coherent and responsible state. And today under the dome, in spite of political views and ideological beliefs, all must unite in this matter. Once again, I'm underlining the question that the Opposition Block has taken a state position throughout this office of the Supreme Council. And all the questions about economic development, people's interests, social issues, we always support, regardless of who is the author of this bill, whether our political opponents or our colleagues who share our views. One thing we need to understand today is that if we don't stop pointing fingers at each other in this room, turning to the past, we can't find anything good. Well, imagine what kind of fire we're lighting in society. Today, one area of the hall refers to the Opposition Block as the people who are the heirs of the Party of Regions. Now there's going to be hotheads who are going to start saying that in that coalition today, the same regionals, the same Social Democrats, there are more than two tens. Today these people are the heirs of our Ukraine who have lost a historic chance to change the history of Ukraine's development during the Yushchenka presidency. And we today must go through our ambitions in order to gather our strengths and move forward together. In terms of coalition government and coalition responsibility. Colleagues, I want to bring you back to the days of the coalition. You didn't listen to those people who were at the Opposition Block, you said, "The Coalition has decided." We're taking responsibility, you see what our reformers were doing up here from the stage, and more specifically, near the rostrum of each other's hands to the mountain, hugging, kissing, not letting people say things in a different position. I then warned you, turning off microphones, another point of view, breaking the rules, that's the whip that's going to turn against you, and you're hostages of your position, your politics. Change your position and your views, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u90	It's Victoria's bird. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, we know that the most corrupt areas in our country are the areas of public procurement and the activities of state-owned enterprises, when government purchases are laundering money out of the budget, when government purchases do not have any competition, when state-owned enterprises are creating linings, which are once again the cost of government budgets, when goods are sold by state-owned enterprises at low prices, and state-owned enterprises are losing extraordinary costs. This is all the competence of the Ministry of Economics, and the control that the Ministry of Economics and other ministries actually exercise over these areas. Right now, you and I have the opportunity to give our Ukrainian companies access to the international purchases that are being made in the world. You know that since January 1st, the Free Trade Zone has been working, which says that our international companies will be allowed to participate in international purchases. Obviously this will create additional value for our companies. Obviously, our companies will benefit from this. But what do we now have in the session room? You can see that individual politicians are trying to blackmail and coalition, and in general, the whole parliament is trying to decide whether or not to make these state decisions that are beneficial to Ukrainian companies. It seems to me that it will not happen in this House, but Parliament is fully responsible for the decisions that we make with you. You can't stop going to work. You can't sabotage Parliament's work because it's our shared responsibility with you. And it's not just a matter of coalition. I'm saddened that the Opposition Block is sitting quietly and wiping its hands, and it's looking forward to a situation where, in fact, the parliamentary coalition is arguing and blackmailing each other. Let's not give this advantage to the Opposition Block and those regions that have already shown themselves. And as for the Economics Ministry team, I also want to go to you separately and ask you to continue the work you're doing. And continue to engage in government purchases and introduce transparent government purchases right in Ukraine. Because when the Free Trade Zone didn't work, I hope it's the Ministry of Economics and that young progressive team that is currently in the Ministry, but wants to leave that ministry, that can help our Ukrainian businesses to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important, but what I'm trying to say is that we are now experiencing a shift in problems. We all praise international experts and young people who work in ministries and develop genius projects, join international agreements, and everything looks nice. I have a question: do you know how we have tender purchases in Ukraine? Do you know what kind of abuse is taking place today with the budget? The task of the government and the ministry, including controlling, analysing and teaching how these purchases take place. And if you go to the "Our Money" website today and you see that the situation has worsened several times. If they were hiding before, there, the mayor's brother, the council of district officials, the minister's assistant, no one's hiding now. I have a question6: how many more contracts do we have to sign to stop corruption with solicitation and budget? How much more budget money do we have to steal? The Ministry has developed a super-international electronic program, and how does this electronic program work, why doesn't it work? Why are they stealing from places? Obviously, we have to say that the system of any international obligation does not work under certain circumstances, because the law enforcement agencies don't work because there is no conflict of interest, more specifically, a conflict of interest in every position. I'd like to focus more on the practice of making solicitation purchases. Well, I'd like to suggest we investigate coyote money. Do you know what the Prime Minister did? We'll be right back. We took 1 billion dollars -- it was 100 million euros -- and now we're going to return three billion dollars because, as I'm told, one company didn't win the bidding correctly, but the wrong company, the stupid one, won, and now we're going to return 2 billion dollars from the state budget. Is that not a crime? And as for today's situation, friends, come on, let's say it is. Yesterday we, uh, us. I didn't vote and I knew this script, but most of the deputies turned it into a public house. If you think we're calling. We have to work! We don't have a coalition. Did you not hear that the coalition doesn't exist, that factions come out of the coalition? You don't know that a new coalition was legalized yesterday, I call it the Green Coalition. These are the people who will sell, not the ideologies, for a dollar, but my mother's. So this "green coalition" yesterday made a deal, wrote it all down, it's all good in her life. And we say we should come to work and work. Where do you work? In a public house? So either this "green coalition" takes power officially, and this is where Ahmetov is sitting, let him come, what's he in shadow mode? Let the Colomaic come, let him lead. Nope. Let the funnel come, let it run. And the President and the Prime Minister will sit here and talk to them. Either there's a new coalition, or we're going to the next election. There are no other options. But to close your eyes on this circus and call each other to an honest life, when everyone was raped yesterday. But not the MPs, the country was raped. But the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u94	Silantiev Denis is passing it on to Halasyuk. I'm reminding you, we need to transmit through the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u95	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Yesterday the majority were saved by the government. But we must save, not the government, but the country. In fact, you have not been chosen by people to hold positions or to help someone distribute spheres of influence, to place their best men, brothers, weddings, relatives in positions. We have been chosen with you to form a professional government, to give him a clear job of economic growth and to support the government's bills that would help improve the living standards of citizens, which would help improve the business conditions in the country, and to attract investments that would help to address the huge systemic imbalances that have accumulated in the country over the decades: financial dependence, energy dependence, the raw disease of the state that we export raw materials and talented people abroad, not ready production. So what's happened is it's just making things difficult, but there's no way that we don't have to make a clear modernization plan today, and today we need to unite not to save someone's position, but today we need to unite in order to systematically, deeply, structurally reform the economy, so that in the end every citizen can say, "Yes, today I live better than I did a year ago. Yes, I believe that in three years I will live even better. I want my children to live in my country, and I don't want to think about how I can just get a kind of life in another country, immigrate." Dear colleagues, we should not talk about European principles and adopt some kind of fictitious laws that allow someone to place a branch somewhere that we seem to be moving to Europe. Moving to Europe is a social economic policy carried out by European countries. Look at Norway, Denmark, Sweden. Maybe we're doing European reforms with you, but these are anti-reforms, these are anti-European reforms -- that's what the government offers us and what it does all the time. Dear colleagues, many of you are very professional, well-versed people. Look at what economic, industrial, investment policies are being implemented in Europe -- supported by small, medium-sized businesses, created by special institutions that stimulate investment demand. In Ukraine, it's a public private partnership, an expert credit agency, industrial parks, a small business support agency -- what we have to create with you to work and develop an economy. And plus, attention to every sector of economy, metallurgy, food industry, machine-building, IT sector. Every sector of the economy deserves a development plan, not what the government is doing today and what the Ministry of Economics is doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u96	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u97	Thank you. And today the situation is that there is a formal government, there is a formal coalition, but I'm sorry, you feel like you're on that plane that gets into the cockpit and there's no pilot. Because he says. He walks about in the living room and he says, "I've made up my mind, all of it. I'm not responsible for anything." You know what I mean? Well, how can this be in a modern European country? So I urge you to reject your political, corporate, other ambitions. So let's put in a self-preservation instinct today. Let's create a normal coalition today that will work, which will be based on a new economic course, a clear socio-economic development programme, a real European, not a declarative one. And let's reload the government for these needs. If we haven't been able to fully resign, I hope you're not going to, most parliamentary, leave the situation as it is today: when ministers don't work when they don't go to the council, when they don't report when they don't come to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u98	Thank you. And the last performance. Svetlana Zlatchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u99	Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! The 0085 bill that we're looking at is very important. Why? Because it allows the Ukrainian business to go to the European public procurement tender market and opens up a huge market of 500 million consumers. Colossal market, a multibillion - dollar market for state funds. This is not a declarative opportunity to bring Ukraine closer to the EU, these are concrete steps. But it's very symbolic that we're looking at this bill in the background of an empty hall. And this void symbolizes the inability of us today as authorities to adopt decisions that are very important to the State. What does that mean? This means that yesterday Parliament was bankrupt with its ability to make decisions. This means that the government has bankrupted its trust here in Parliament and before society. This means that the President has bankrupted the ability to control the situation in the country. We cannot allow this situation to deepen the state’s crisis. What can be done? I think we have a chance that can restart the situation. First of all, I urge that the government, in view of the fact that Parliament, during this session, cannot once again consider the issue of mistrust, resign itself, resign itself! The other one. If that doesn't happen, I urge the coalition to take a constructive chance -- and transform the Cabinet of Ministers voluntarily, with the participation of the People's Front, the BPP, the Radical Party, the Fatherhood and Self-Help. I urge the President to use his influence on the Peter Prashenko faction to take advantage of the possibility of a constructive further solution. If that doesn't happen, I think we're getting closer to the elections that everyone is calling for us to avoid. Dear colleagues, this whole situation takes place on the eve of the second anniversary of the Maydan shooting. If we don't take radical and constructive steps with you, Heaven's 100th Street will turn into a street of buried ideas and expectations here at Gruszewski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u100	It's a closing statement. The reporter, the co-reporter, is there a need for a closing word? Please, Anna Mikolayevna. Final word, last speech. And let's move on to making decisions. Turn on the microphone. Hope Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm sure we're going to ratify this agreement because it opens us up to electronic markets, actually buying. I also want to remind you that Japan is now head of the country, the Great Seven. And this is also a good opportunity for us to confirm our cooperation with this country, with the Great Seven. Therefore, only an effective parliament, which will show that it is capable of working for the country, is able to provide both support in the international arena and in the East and reforms that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u102	Thank you. We finished our discussion of the subject. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall. The faction secretariat and the Supreme Council report that a vote is about to take place. I'll put it to a vote. If there aren't enough votes, I'm going to translate it into a chapter on "earlier issues." It's a very important bill, and he can't be held hostage to political intrigue. We're all set, aren't we? So, colleagues, I'm voting on the bill of accession of Ukraine to the State Procurement Agreement. Signal vote, please vote, colleagues. [[12:03:29]] For a hundred and There's not enough potential in the room. So, dear colleagues, we're transferring it to tomorrow when there's enough votes to make decisions. And now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a break for half an hour, 30 minutes until 12:35.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Dear colleagues, ready to resume their work? Only I'll ask Anna Mikolayevna Hopko to come into the hall. Please come into the hall, colleagues, we're getting ready for work. Dear colleagues, the following day we have a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. There is also a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. If that's the will of the hall, we'll go for a shortcut. If not, we will consider it fully. Therefore, who supports the review of the 4042 procedure by a reduced procedure, please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[12:42:52]] For-50 The hall requires that the procedure be completed. I respect the election of deputies, and I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u104	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The date of the other years of the violent capture of part of Ukrainian territory by the Russian Federation military forces is approaching. It was from the occupation of the Crimea that a massive armed attack began on Ukraine, which deliberately chose the course of European development. It was our choice with you, many colleagues who are present here. The aggression of the Russian Federation continues today. And it's not just military aggression anymore, it's also economic aggression. We see the embargo, we see how much Russia is trying to destroy Ukraine in every way. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has prepared an appeal to an international community that proposes to condemn widespread violations by the Russian occupation authorities of fundamental human rights and freedoms and the rights of indigenous peoples in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, and parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. This is what we want to remind the world that Crimea's criminal annexation is exactly what Putin's plan is for Ukraine not just to be a member of the European Union, NATO, but to prevent Ukraine from happening as a state at all. It is by this appeal of the people’s deputies that the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs demonstrate to the world that we will never, under any circumstances, agree with the occupation of the territory of our State. Therefore, we urge the world’s society to continue to exert systemic pressure on the Russian Federation to immediately halt the occupation of Ukrainian territory, to release all without the exclusion of political prisoners, to refuse to finance illegal military formations in its territory and in Ukraine, to cease the transfer of military technology, to arms, to provide rear support, to prepare and finance terrorists. Ukraine's clear and coordinated action on the international side. And the international community, headed towards the end of Russian aggression, has produced positive results for our country and for the entire European continent. We are able to hold the only and strong international diplomatic front, protecting Ukrainian territory from the spread of Russian aggression, and other parts of our state and European continent. I would just like to remind our deputies of the adoption by the European Parliament on February 4, this year of a resolution strongly condemning the illegal annexation of Crimea and pointing to the critical situation of human rights on the peninsula, the attacks by the Russian occupation authorities on fundamental rights and freedoms of all those who disagree with its policies, primarily Crimean Tatars and ethnic Ukrainians. It emphasizes the suppression of all democratic manifestations and freedoms in the Crimea. It is also important that the European Parliament be prepared to initiate an international negotiating mechanism with the restoration of Ukrainian sovereignty through the dissolution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and with the direct involvement of the institutions of the European Union. And by the beginning of March, the European Parliament will have the days of Ukraine, where the Ukrainian delegation goes. And it's also a good opportunity to work for the European Union to be the only, consolidated, and to support it in resisting Russian aggression, in opposition to Russian information propaganda, to be firm and inviolable. And today, it is more important than ever not to allow a situation in which the world would diminish attention to the topic of Russian aggression against Ukraine. In fact, for this, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also by public organizations, we are making an effort to maintain transatlantic unity. As a result of our joint work, honourable colleagues, Russia's full implementation of the UN General Assembly Resolution of 27 March 2014 is the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The position of the Minsk Accords, the implementation package of February 12, as well as the relevant resolutions of the Council of Europe. So today the Ukrainian Parliament would like to remember that the Russian Federation would not stop at Crimea alone in the days leading up to the second anniversary of the military, criminal, criminal annexation of Crimea. And so the success of the reforms inside will depend on whether we can hold the diplomatic front, maintain unity, and also increase support so that this year, in 2016, there will finally be a break in order to stop the shootings, to start taking away the technology, so that the OSCE will be able to monitor the situation. We know that the budget of the OSCE has been increased, as well as the number of observers, to 800. It is also of great importance to us that the political prisoners who are now in the Russian Federation, including our colleague Nadia Savchenko, be finally released and be here with us in this room through international efforts. We would also like to be able, together with the United States in 2016, together with the European Union, the Council of Europe, also with representatives from the Great Seven country, to be able to push and ensure the return of control over the border, the Ukrainian-Russian border. This is one of the tasks we're doing this year. It's also extremely important for us to keep the sanctions on them to be extended in the summer against the Russian Federation. For us, it's extremely important to have a visa-free regime in 2016 -- it's one of the most important tasks. And to do that, it takes the Ukrainian Parliament and the political forces, who unfortunately are not present here today, not to think about their own party interests, but to think about Ukraine, to think about the challenges that are now facing the state. We can't trade in 2016 the chance and settlement of the situation in the east of Ukraine, and the granting of a visa-free regime for another struggle for power. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Anna Mikolayevno, please stay. By the rules, the answer is question-and-question. Colleagues, do you need a question-answer? Any questions to the reporter? Yes. Please record the question. Sergey Lechchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u106	Colleagues, I don't have any questions for the reporter, she's told it all in detail, and we fully support it. But I wanted broadcasters to show the session hall. This disgrace is not just for all of Ukraine — it is the abuse of the memory of the people who died in Maidan, which this Parliament has brought to power. There are 30 or 40 deputies in the session hall; Wednesday is a working day. Where are all the deputies, where are the factions leaders? Where's the government they confirmed yesterday, where are they all? Why does this Supreme Council abuse people’s trust? You're an explanation. And using this opportunity, I'll say again and again: yesterday was a political conspiracy, a conspiracy reinforced by the oligarchs, strengthened by their financial resources. And this government, it's doomed to non-existence. Instead of sending him to the dump site of history, we're trying to put another dropper on him, while that won't help. Instead of doing the reboot, we're playing the political "contracts." That's enough!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u107	I don't think it's a question, it's a performance, Sergei. Only I would suggest to you, as I would suggest to all of you the same kind of fiery talk about discipline in factions. It's a work day. If only it was a miner. [[Applause]] He said he wasn't going to work in the mine, he was against bombing in Syria, he probably wouldn't have figured out how to run the mine. Colleagues, we're dealing with matters of mutual importance. We do. I'll give you my word, Mrs. Anna. You. So that we can understand the situation correctly. We have an extremely critical situation in international politics. We need to concentrate our efforts to continue sanctions against Putin, against Russia. This is the future of our victory in war, and this is the future of our nation. But that doesn't matter. For many, political intrigues and the mere lack of a banal understanding of their responsibility to go to work are important. The challenges we face are the challenges of the century’s war, which we are fighting for independence. And a lot of intriguers, they don't even want to think about it, they just think about their political ambitions. I'll tell you, Sergey, you: and on Maidan there were those who showed up for half an hour, who were on stage, and they disappeared from Maidan. And there were those who worked on Maidan. And I'll tell you, those who worked on Maidan are now in the hall, the ones who became deputies. Stepan of Cuba and many others -- they're in the hall. Nothing's changing, guys. There are people who are responsible who understand the weight and fate of the state, and there are populists who are just press conferences, ethers. They're not at work. And so I urge everyone not only to talk about it in their sessions, to call on their factions. You don't want to work -- put in a mandate and leave the Supreme Council, you can't come -- give a mandate and go. I told you, I'm preparing a bill to find the MP's responsibility for not attending the session. Because I told you. [[Applause]] When I'm told about the political crisis, I've already talked about it, and once again, take a decisive step towards overcoming it. Go to work as the entire Ukrainian working people walk. And this will be a very important step in overcoming the crisis. Thank you. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u108	My colleagues, I think that those who are not present today in the hall should just go to the front and defend the state there. Because today, when we speak and accept this call to parliaments of foreign states and ask them to support them in resisting Russian aggression and the semi-arid room here, those who do not actually come in irresponsiblely should go to war there, protect them if they can't work here. Because we are in debt to those who are now giving up their lives and standing with machines, protecting our territorial integrity. And we don't have just any moral right to not come to Parliament and not work when the whole world is waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u109	Barna. Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, what's the point of enacting laws if the government doesn't enforce them? And what is the point of fighting corruption in general if the minister of the Ministry of Justice and Yatzenuk are leading this corruption? So yesterday's government uprising does not say that the MPs supported the government, but it asserts the influence of the oligarchic clans who are fighting against the people, against Ukraine, against the President, on the influence of these clans on the MPs themselves. Clearly, then, there can be no constructive activity with this government and parliament. And those politicians who have been criticizing the government for a year and refusing to vote in favour of his resignation, I just want to say that you're acting like political prostitutes who teach someone virtue and who themselves continue to sell their body, conscience and dignity. I think the end of this motherfucker will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u111	All right, time for questions is up. Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. I'll be right there. Question time is clearly defined by the Rules. The factions are about to come from the factions. And I'm asking you to prepare and record the factions. Please hold the recording, please. "The People's Front", River Andriy Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u112	Please give the word to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who are now in the session room to support this decision, because right now, when there is an exacerbation of action in the East, when our European partners are still supporting and imposing sanctions, and their continuation of the fight, the heroic struggle of Ukraine against the Russian aggressor country, we really need to consolidate all of us together in the session room and vote in favour of this decision. By the way, I am addressing those who are missing and are now discussing the question of how to proceed to the upcoming parliamentary elections for the next term. There is work to be done instead of going through the towers, interviewing various channels, and again engaging in demagogies. Once again, I appeal to everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Sergey Kaplin, Peter Dust Block. How about a block of Petra Dust?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u115	Dear Lord Chairman! I don't think today's statement is supported. My application to leave the "Peter Prashenko Block" and a coalition supported by 100 per cent of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, which will be a reflection of the formation of a new real opposition, the opposition that will tire out this parliament and government, the birth of a new parliament, the new government is the basis and subject of jokes. And I don't think you have the moral right to joke when it comes to such an important issue. The other one. I'd still like to protect Self-Help and Fatherland who aren't here. They have serious reasons, political reasons. In fact, Parliament, a coalition, was raped yesterday. Yesterday there was a conspiracy of anti-democratic oligarchic forces that built a clear route for themselves — a route to the destruction of the country, a detour, a redistribution of the country. I have no doubt that any way out of the coalition of democratic parties and forces will result in its destruction in this way. You will find MPs with whom individual oligarchs will point out that they are to fill a new coalition. In fact, it is created today. And the task of the Ukrainian people is now to win the war, especially on the internal front -- the anti-corruption front -- is to unite. The Ukrainians today need to understand clearly: there is no alternative to national opposition, no new national movement in the struggle against the new oligarchy regime. And I want to address the Ukrainian people today. The only hope is for you. You see how excited today are the forces of the Opposition Block, the other political forces that formed a new coalition yesterday, along with Prime Minister Yatsenuk. And that means only one thing, that today only on the street can we create a coalition that will form a new parliament. And I invite all the Ukrainians to join the Party of the Simple People, to join the forces that stood up for the resignation of the Ukrainian Parliament, who heard you, who heard the Ukrainian people, their desire to abandon the government and fight for the displacement of this oligarchy regime. All hope today is for the people of Ukraine and the new young political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u116	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, Radical Party [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u117	Oleg Valeriyovich. I call for peace! Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u118	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is a pity that today in Parliament, when it comes to referring to the international community to the second anniversary of Russian aggression against Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea, there are not enough deputies to make decisions. Of course, the Radical Party faction will support this draft decision. We'll call on the international community one more time, get them to support us. But let's face it, there's one very simple thing: no references that we don't accept will solve the question of liberating the Crimea, freeing Donbas if we don't fight, because we have to fight, not in words, but in action. And the fight, of course, is not going to pass. We lost that time, we could have freed Donbas in August 14th. Unfortunately, time is lost today. There was a team of soldiers to step down. They've lost a lot of money. Today we have huge armies, huge armies, huge weapons on Donbass, in Crimea, and so today there is no military solution to the conflict. Only a combined way: military, political, economic pressure, international sanctions, a broad international front – will enable this problem to be solved. I would like to say briefly, in the absence of time, of the position and vision of the Radical Party, how we can solve the problem of the liberation of Donbas and the Crimea. First of all, it's a change in the form of negotiations. Today, we have been artificially driven out of the will of the leadership of Ukraine into the form of the Minsk Accords. With all due respect to our Belarusian brothers, to our brother Minsk, but the form of negotiations should not be mine, but, as a minimum, Budapest. I mean, the parties to the Budapest Memorandum who 20 years ago guaranteed us immunity and sovereignty and independence in exchange for nuclear weapons, which I recall is: United States, United Kingdom, China. Russia, which broke its word, and France -- they're supposed to be at the negotiating table today. There should be negotiations in this format. Those who have guaranteed today must pay the bills. To that end, Ukrainian authorities must defend the national interests of Ukraine. To that end, the Ukrainian authorities should not be afraid to force our international partners to fulfill their obligations. I ask why two years after the annexation of Crimea, we still do not insist on the adoption by the General Assembly of the United Nations of a resolution condemning Russian military aggression. Why is this document still missing? Why do Cypriots insist on the proper decisions of the United Nations 40 years after Cyprus’s capture? And we, Ukraine, silently put once in April, two years ago, did not pass, did not accept, nor did we persist. The water is boiling. So in order to win, Donbas, we have to fight for Crimea. Fight and fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u119	Thank you. From the factions, who's going to be from the Opposition Block? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u120	Dear Chairman! Thank you for the opportunity to express your position on the opposition block faction. Of course, we are the specified draft document, and we will not support this request. Since our political power, the thought behind the issue is based on the fact that it is still part of the civil war itself. And what I'm saying is that it's not just our opinion. A representative of the United States of Ukraine, Joseph Biden, also compared this conflict with the conflict in the 19th century, the second half, and the United States. Each political party, each national MP in particular, has a point of view. But we follow the view that so many millions of citizens in the east have in the south. With regard to the charges or appeals against Donbas and Crimea, I would like to remind you that this fight should not only be on the floor but also on the case, but also on the quality of the documents coming out of the plenary. In doing so, I would like to point out that those people who talk about the Donbas fight, in particular, voted in favour of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2016. And in this law I would like to point out that there is a situation that the State unilaterally stops the actions of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State guarantees for internally displaced persons and persons living in the ATO zone. What does that mean? That in 2016 the State unilaterally refuses to pay off the arrears of wages, scholarships, pensions and other forms of social benefits that are assigned to internally displaced persons, i.e. those who reside in the territory of Donbas and reside in a controlled Ukrainian territory, and those who live in the ATO zone. So this is what you call a fight? If we fight like this, Ukraine will generally split into very many parts because we discriminate against some territories and give priority to others. Please mention this legislative initiative, which was registered in particular by the representative of the "Peter Prashenko Block" regarding the channelling of part of the environmental tax, as far as Ivano-Frankovsky is concerned. Lviv and Vinnitsk regions. This inequality gives rise to certain confrontations, some mistrust of one part of the population toward another part of the population. I don't want to blame anyone personally, but I would like my colleagues to hear that by adopting these laws, so that their words don't conflict with the fact that the stated nature of the normative documents that are coming out now, because it's the only body in the legislature that has a balanced character, it's protected the interests of all types of Ukrainian population, because we're all equal in what language we speak in either Russian or Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u121	So the factions of the factions have ended, now the speeches by the national MPs. I ask you to prepare who wants to take part in the discussion, and please record from the National MPs. Please. Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u122	I give the word to Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Honorary colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the political party "Will" certainly supports the Supreme Council's decision to refer foreign parliaments, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. It is unfortunate that such an important document is being considered today at a time when a maximum of 60 to 70 national deputies are present in the hall. And it's too bad that this question can't be voted out today because it's the answer to the question, what is the attitude of every national MP to what is happening today with the occupation of the Crimea, the occupation of the Donbas, which is the attitude today of those factions of the coalition that are once again in the coalition and which are responsible today. Before yesterday, they were responsible for a government that failed to resign, which is the attitude of every national MP who is non-fractional, and it is unfortunate that today we will not be able to vote on this appeal. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that until yesterday, the responsibility for forming the government was on every national MP from the coalition that this government formed and that supported it. Beginning yesterday, this responsibility went to those who did not vote in favour of resigning such a government. Why? Because it's some schizophrenic thing, when 247 national MPs first vote for an unsatisfactory evaluation of the government's activities and then part of the same deputies who voted in favour of the government's unsatisfying performance do not vote in favour of its resignation. I mean, it's a totally steady impression that someone wants to make it worse in Ukraine by giving an assessment of the government's discontent and at the same time not sending this government that's working on a solid two-year standoff. I want to say that this is where the Opposition Block was speaking, and I'm talking about that he's not responsible for this government. Yes, until yesterday he has no responsibility for this government. But since yesterday, the opposition bloc itself, along with other political parties and factions that have not voted in favour of resigning the government, has begun to bear direct responsibility for it. Because by September of the month, this government will continue to work, and it will continue to do the things that we evaluated yesterday for grade two. So, honourable colleagues, the best way out of this situation is, of course, the voluntary resignation of the government, Arsenija Petrovich's statement that he will resign voluntarily. And that would give all the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian Parliament a chance to choose a new government, to create it on the basis of unquote, on professional principles, so that we don't have that deep political crisis that we're in right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this very seriously, but we are considering an important bill on an important subject. I simply want us to understand that there is aggression and war against our country. We are discussing the issue of an appeal for aggression against Ukraine. We're going to the rostrum, we're talking about everything around here, not that. I very much ask, according to the Rules, I have the right to just cut off when they say it's not on the subject. I don't do that. So I'm just calling on the MPs who have shown the political will to look at the whole process, to talk about the subject of the bill. Thank you. Longenkov gives the word Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u125	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The question that we are discussing right now is probably important. But let's talk about the reason. One is to treat the disease, another is to deal with disease prevention. I don't know if there's at least one person in this room who would support fighting in a conflict zone. There aren't any. There's no Self-Help here, no Opposition Block -- everyone wants peace. Now let's talk about sequence. In order to put an end to the war, we need to make a commitment in order to put an end to those decisions that we have constantly in the political arena. What is the obligation? Commitments are laid down in the Minsk covenants. I have a question, say, to this half of the hall, to this half of the hall, which is the coalition that bears the President's name block: who of the opposition bloc signed the Minsk Accords? Did we sign the agreements? Did the President sign this? These are external obligations. Please tell us, who is listening to our colleagues from the European Union and America today, what are they saying? You want to end the war -- both sides have to implement the Minsk Accords. Why is it that today the end - of - war fighters will not withdraw a document that has been signed, and where is Ukraine’s obligation to carry out it? Before teaching someone morals, you need to be morally clean. In this room, betrayal took root. When it comes to simple people, when they talk, I don't look at a simple person who winked at the Supreme Council on the WFP quota, but now he's talking about other things. Betrayal is when self-help people winked at the Supreme Council -- that's me talking to the previous speaker -- and today they turned to the other side without wanting to take responsibility. The person who appoints them is the employer of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council, in a coalition person, has given this Cabinet of Ministers a job, and the coalition is responsible for the personnel assigned. Can the chief physician discharge his head office, using the support of a leading medical practitioner who is not involved? You asked the opposition government to discuss it? You didn't get the words! You have a direct responsibility, and have a conscience to admit your mistakes today. I urge everyone to stop setting the situation on fire and share the country in half!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u126	Guilt Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u127	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, like my colleagues, non-faction deputies, I will support this statement. But since we now have this format of discussion and the extended procedure, I will still go back to the main problem that is in the Ukrainian Parliament. The main problem is populism and politics. I got a call last night from a 15-year-old who voted in favour of resigning the government, and we said, we understand that it's not state-owned, that there's no new Prime Minister until there's a new candidate that can't do that, but you know, people like it. To find someone who would be more critical of Jacinyuk, especially the Minister of Economic Policy of ours, who unfortunately is not, while I think he's a non-corrupted person, but that's the maximum. The Department of Deregulation, which in general replaces Ms. Xenia Leapina's work. We have a committee on entrepreneurship that would have these issues, which the Ministry of Economics is now proud to do. I signed both the Shokin, and the Gottari, by their resignation, and I stood up all the time, but I can't be politicians. When everyone understands the collapse of the state, when everyone realizes that the corridor in Crimea will be breached as soon as we announce the presidential election. But we want plus two deputies, and we want to. We had the Attorney General here who sold all the cases on Maidan, and now we're talking. Now we're telling you what patriots we are. And each faction raises these questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't worry about me, buddy! You shut up and don't worry! Okay? So, dear colleagues, unfortunately, we see the left half of the hall today. No matter what the outcome of the coalition, no matter what the political demarcation is, we call the minister off, we don't call the minister off, but we have to go to work. Half the hall is empty. And it's a disgrace that can't be washed away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich. He's handing it over to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u129	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, we are really discussing now in the almost empty House of Parliament an extremely important decision that needs to be taken today in order to make a proper statement by the Supreme Council on Russian aggression. It's all right, but let's start with the fundamental things that concern everyone today. Because statements are good, but real steps are much more important. And what do we have two years after the beginning of Russian aggression in Ukraine? We have a Russian business that is still working in Ukraine without any restrictions. We have Russian banks that have literally recently been licensed to do business in Ukraine -- banks of the aggressor country, banks that are now destroying the financial system of Ukraine, which today will suck the currency out of our economy to blow it up. We see that if the public, if the people themselves, had not begun to cover up the total criminal trade in the occupied Crimea, they would continue to do so. If today people were not to fight the transit of Russian trucks into Ukraine, this would continue and the government would continue to cover it. We can see that even some of the Ukrainian skyscrapers are still controlled directly by Russian oligarchs near the Kremlin, and no one is asking questions about nationalizing them, confiscating them, it's still going on. And so it seems to me that, well, why should I be surprised? But we have an ATO, and we have a diplomatic relationship with Russia that is not even broken down -- with the aggressor country, we have the Minsk Accords -- which Parliament has not ratified, but which actually writes what is written in Putin's favour, that we have our Constitution to change. Why do we have to change our Constitution, please? So this is what we have, an internal conflict that we have to change our Constitution as a result? No, this is the military aggression of the neighbouring state, the Russian Federation. But the Ukrainian authorities today accept the logic of the invader who imposes upon the world, telling us that we have civil war, not Russian aggression. And a lot of people here, the fifth column, are still doing this, this nonsense. But unfortunately, the Minsk Accords and all of this completely Norman format, it goes on and on. We have to go back to the Budapest format, we have to go back to those countries that are our guarantors. All we have to do is talk about this, not the format "Putin and his friends and trading partners in Europe together decide the fate of Ukraine." No! No! It has to be a completely different change in this format and it has to be, in fact, things called their names. Because when people go to the front to fight, when a message comes from a war machine and it's called "go to the trenches," and on the other hand we're dealing with an aggressor, it's schizophrenic, and it has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u130	Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u131	Colleagues, you know, there's a lot of different thoughts going on right now. And I want to see what tomorrow will be like. Whether there will be 330 votes in this room, 400 who will vote in favour of decisions that will allow the state of Ukraine to take place and not lose its historic chance. On the other hand, I want to see what's going on in the Kremlin. What Does It Do? Putin, looking at a picture of the half-empty Ukrainian Parliament, and realizing that the situation in Ukraine can really be very much like the scenario he needs. He really needs to take the sanctions off. And during the Munich Security Conference, literally last week, Medvedev, speaking on a panel with the prime minister of France, said very clearly, "It is not only Russia that suffers from sanctions, but also the countries of the European Union that implement them." And that's why Russia's clear goal is that in 2016 sanctions from Russia will be lifted. Why? Because they have $30 a barrel in their budget, and they actually have 50. So they're going to have a budget crisis. They need to pay somehow for this army that is fighting in Ukraine, the army that is fighting Syria, all the pro-Russian forces that are in Moldova and elsewhere. And so our ability to meet here in Parliament and work depends on the success of our foreign policy, depending on whether tomorrow our partners from the Great Seven will support Ukraine from around the world or not. If you ask what the main question was at the Munich Conference: Will Ukraine be able to deal with ourselves, or will we become subjects here? And so today I would very much like to have all the people gathered in this room tomorrow, those MPs who were chosen by the Ukrainian people to fulfill our obligations after the dignity revolution, after the blood, after the criminal annexation of Crimea, after the military occupation in the East. And it's actually very painful to see that someone today, dreaming of chairs in Kabmin, because they haven't been able to reshape the government as he wanted; someone, dreaming about the election, doesn't even understand how much we've gotten tired of our partners with all these fights. They don't care anymore when we explain to them why someone is bad, the President, the Prime Minister, Parliament and so on. Our fights are our inner ones. They want to see results, simple results. And when we talk to the South today yesterday, let's talk tomorrow about tomorrow, and how we're going to end 2016. Will this be the year of victory: we will return control of the border and not allow Putin to freeze the East conflict, as was the case with Transnistria? And so I really hope that tomorrow the responsible forces, those who have come to Parliament and who, not with populist slogans, are going to work and vote for this decision tomorrow, as well as for the rest that we have discussed today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u132	Thank you. No, it's time for the performances. There will be a new bill, you will speak. And just because the discussion is over, I'm going to focus on one important thing. We have very important visa liberalisation laws tomorrow. And the deadline is Friday. Today, committees will identify issues. And when you ask me what the main bad news is for me last day, the main bad news for me is that we were unable yesterday to make decisions on the key anti-corruption laws that we need to take for every Ukrainian citizen to have visa-free treatment. For me, I see a tragedy and a major challenge: so that tomorrow we can accept them so that we can do it on the committees today. And I urge all factions to have all the deputies on the committees. As there's going to be a boycott on the committees today, as tomorrow we won't have enough votes in the room to make those decisions, it's going to be the biggest and hardest hit on Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion on this bill. I'm going to put in a vote of warning, if there's not enough votes, we're also going to move it to the section "after the discussion." I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm putting the bill of motion to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Signal vote. Please. [[13:27:25]] For a-117. We're moving the question to tomorrow's section "after the discussion." Dear colleagues, we have another bill that we can discuss today. So this is the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, again, to the parliaments of foreign nations, parliamentary assemblies and international organizations in connection with the threats posed by the lives of hostages held by Russian militants in the territories of individual areas of Donetsk and Luhansk. The reporter is Irina Heratchenko. I invite her to the report. Mrs. Irina. I don't hear anything. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, along with our colleagues at the Committee on European Integration, Human Rights and Foreign Affairs, we have prepared an appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign nations, parliamentary assemblies, and international organizations in connection with the threats posed by the lives of hostages held by the pro-Russian militants in the territory of the individual areas of Donetské and Lugansk. During our work in the humanitarian subgroup of the Minsk Tripartite Contact Group, we use the official information of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is being updated every week. And today, according to this information, there are 137 Ukrainians on the hostage list. These are both civilians and military, and 10 of these people are in the prisons of the Russian Federation, including our colleague Nadia Savchenko. And it is clear that the sixth paragraph of the Minsk Treaties requires the release of all illegally held persons, and long ago Ukrainian citizens who are illegally detained by militants should be free, should be with their families. And in fact, my fellow dignitaries, it seems unfair to me that our international partners, who pay so much attention to the Minsk Accords, are, first of all, obviously a safe bloc of the Minsk Treaties that are not being implemented today. There is much debate on the political bloc of the Minsk Treaties regarding changes to the Constitution or the possibility of holding elections in these areas, the modality of these elections. But in the third or fifth plan, there remains a humanitarian situation in occupied areas and the failure to implement the humanitarian bloc of the Minsk Treaties. In particular, the sixth point concerning the release of hostages and the seventh point is the unhindered work of international humanitarian missions in areas affected by conflict. For days, there were shocking cynicism statements by representatives of the so-called ODR who claimed that there was a criminal code based on the code of the non-existent country, the Soviet Union, and that it could be used, applied to prisoners of war, as they called them, the death penalty. According to her cynicism, this statement is completely correct with the corresponding IDII statements, which similarly threaten the world to apply the death penalty to hostages. But when IDIH, their leaders, terrorists make these statements, the world reacts harshly. And here, imagine, we didn't hear any reaction from either the Russian Federation, which is also a signatory to the Minsk Treaties, or from the OSCE, which is also the coordinator of a dialogue in the Minsk format, or from the Council of Europe, and a member of the Council of Europe, including the Russian Federation, and that means that all countries that join the Council of Europe have to condemn harshly any suggestion of the possibility of capital punishment, or other countries of the European Union. And so, honourable colleagues, we suggest that the Ukrainian Parliament address our partners with the proposal that the security and humanitarian blocs of the Minsk Accords are first priorities. Without the implementation of the humanitarian points of the Minsk Accords, we cannot move forward. And any hint, any claim of ill-treatment or torture, or the use of unworthy methods to hostages, they have to get a hard reaction from the whole world. Today only Ukraine shouts about it. And so, of course, it's shameful that today we're discussing such an important statement in a semi-empty room. And there's no explanation here for our coalition partners who are not present today in this room, that that's their answer to yesterday's parliament farce. Because I think every deputy is responsible for how he works, for what decisions he makes, for what political issues we discuss and discuss in the session room. But I think that we have, in fact, not only to discuss this issue today, not only on Thursday when we vote in Parliament to give votes for this address, but also to address our partners, including during all our contacts with international organizations, with embassies with very important mediation: we cannot allow the world to overlook the humanitarian crisis in occupied territories and in the Crimea, we cannot allow the world to pretend that these statements, they only have that kind of blackmail in relation to Ukraine, to the hostages, to the families of the hostages. We view them as a very serious signal of the threat, a very real threat to the lives of our citizens. And we demand today that all international humanitarian organizations, democratic countries, do the same thing to give that assessment, not make it appear that it didn't. What's more, these statements are made by people who call themselves authorized there, from human rights, who have to protect the humanitarian approach to solving the problem of freeing hostages. And the last topic I want to draw your attention to is the failure of the missions of the International Red Cross to the occupied territories to solve the two key issues: freeing hostages, this search for missing missing persons, this identification of the dead. Today, the same list of missing persons is counted according to information provided by the Ukrainian Security Service for 700 citizens, both civilian and military. And obviously the task of the State is to find everyone, is to honor everyone’s memory. If we do not have access to occupied territories today, we demand that the mission of the International Red Cross, a humanitarian organization that has a centuries-old experience of such work be admitted to occupied territories to join this important work of searching for missing persons and freeing hostages. Please support our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u134	Thank you. The report is invited. No co-reporting, right? Chi. Anna Mikolayevna, will you speak? Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna is invited to the report. From the committee, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u135	Good afternoon. Today, on the day of ratification of international instruments, we accept 2 of these important references. First. On the eve of the second criminal annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation, we also wish to address the parliaments of foreign nations, the Parliamentary Assembly, and international organizations in connection with the threats to the lives of hostages held by Russian militants in the territories of individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. And I wanted to take this opportunity to say that it is very important for us to ratify the Rome Statute. This is one of our important international obligations to condemn through The Hague all these crimes against the Ukrainian population. And today we also want to call on foreign parliaments and say that the pressure on Russia must be continued. And it takes unity to help those prisoners who are now, those hostages, so that the DNR and the LNR -- these terrorists, these criminals -- would not be bullied or tortured by those people. And that's why it's very important for us to have the Ukrainian Parliament working. Why is this important? Because so many people are awaiting liberation and are waiting for the Ukrainian State to succeed. Because when we become subjects, we are counted. Then we sit at the negotiating table, and then we listen. And all of our demands, they find some kind of response and some kind of response. We also want and demand the Russian Federation and its support for illegal weapons formations to cease armed aggression against Ukraine and fulfil all their obligations. And, dear colleagues, I really want those people who are now in captivity to feel that here in Kiev, there are enough people who think clearly who understand how important it is to preserve their own lives, and in order for the state of Ukraine to become a powerful survivor, we worked together. And we want to encourage all the political forces to understand each other, and tomorrow to be a day of parliamentary effective work, and we could approve all those petitions, ratifications that we don't have enough time for today and there aren't enough voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Is there a question for the rapporteurs? Let's move on to the performances right away. There's a general agreement. Now we're going to have the factions. I'm asking you to do the recording. Anyone who wishes to speak, please sign up for the factions, please. Andrew Lozova, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u137	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, it's a shame: there's no ATO -- there's a war going on. We have thousands of dead. And today, in the trenches, there, in the east, the country’s better sons, who risk their lives, health, and freedom every day. Many remained alive and well, but they were taken prisoner. They're being bullied out there, you've all seen this video. As it turns out, some of the children of this country can go to the front and protect them, while others who have been sent to Parliament cannot come to work. Look, we're making a historic, important decision to appeal to the parliaments of other states about our heroes who are now in the grip of Moscow's invaders, and the House of Parliament is empty. Some may fight and others may not even come to work. I believe that everyone in this room, although not many of us, supports this decision, well, there's a little "wankers," they're sitting there, in the left-hand corner, you know. At the same time, I would like to support Anna Mikolayevna in ratifying the Rome Statute. But let's be honest, I have a moral right to say this: because our faction of the Radical Party, all the deputies are co-authors of the Ratification Order, if there's a free decision of two large factions who like to speak, with all due respect, which are patriots, which are Democrats, we'll make that decision in one day. Not the President's decision, not two megafractions yet. And that's why this disgrace is happening that we haven't yet ratified the Rome Statute. As for the honourable first report. I know how hard you are to save your captives. I know what a hard job this is, because I am now doing the rescue of my fellow countryman, Peter Jaroshevich of Zdolbonov, 128 brigade, who was captured on February 9, 2014 by Moscow invaders near Logwinovo. At the same time, it's strange to hear that our boys are trapped because Moscow is not implementing the Minsk Accords. Moscow does nothing that it promises. It's a country of mental liars where the authorities are always lying. All over the world, kings lied, secretaries - generals lied, so - called presidents lying to the whole world, where the veils of the threats of the Ivans were lying. Bismarck was brilliantly saying, and nothing was changed that the agreement signed with Moscow was not even worth the paper on which it was signed. The Minsk Accords showed their inefficiency. So we call for a return to the Budapest negotiating format. All the nations that we, because of my fellow countryman and for which I am ashamed, Leonid Krawczuk, when we gave up nuclear weapons, gave us certain security assurances during the Budapest Memorandum. Today, they are obliged to do so. And we're surprised they don't do that when we don't raise these questions ourselves, when instead of the Budapest format we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u138	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u139	As soon as Ukraine gives up the mine form of negotiations, as long as this disgrace continues, there will be more and more prisoners, unfortunately. Let us be honest with ourselves. I know that many in this room supported the Minsk Accords, not in a concubine, but in a sincere way. But it's a mistake. Be strong people, acknowledge them, and join us in requesting a return to the form of the Budapest memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Walking, Rebirth Party. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u141	Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. Our Group will certainly support this decision. But of course, as everyone here says, when such important laws are passed, there are virtually no people in the hall. And, of course, I am curious to see when members of the coalition who have spent more than a year in the coalition, how comfortable it was when they put the government in place, and today they are moving it all into a political plane and talking. I just want to say that the only party of the "rebirth" political party is when. who had the courage to say at the very beginning that we will not participate in this circus. And we didn't vote yesterday not for the government's mistrust, and not for the government's resignation, but for others who were comfortable in the coalition, today say we're going to get out, and we're to blame for that, and the Rebirth Party, and all the rest of the parties. We need to get to the hall and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Bakumenko now, "Block of Petra Dustenka", Alexander Borisovich Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Alexei Honcharenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Clearly, our faction supports these petitions and this determination. I personally spent half an hour in Moscow captivity, well, it's a memorable feeling, believe me. And those guys that have been for months, and some have been in hostages for years. We have to do everything we can, and at least do that. This is the minimum that we are obliged to do. But I want to talk about something else. What's going on in Parliament right now? Once again, there are no national deputies in the House of Parliament. We're here, tops, tops, we're 70, tops. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, and right, we need people to know the names. And that's why I'm talking to the chairman. I'm asking you one way or another, the first option is to have an extra registration. The second option is to vote because we voted in favour. Before that, there was an order of the day, and we only voted in a bell, and we didn't see the voices, and we went on -- it's wrong. Let's make a vote so that everyone who's in the room, his last name can be seen, and that's the main thing -- those who don't know where they are, and what they're doing now, so that their last names can be visible, so that every person, every voter can ask, is it a major, or is it a list, where you've been, why don't you go to work, why do I have to go to work, and you don't like anything? Why does the doctor go to work or like the head of the department, or does he not? And someone here didn't like what happened yesterday and we're not going to work. I didn't like what happened yesterday either, so I'm here for Yatzenuk and for whom? So I'm asking the chairman to put this to a vote with any result, let the names be visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u145	Thank you. I had a call, I have to answer it. I'll give you my word, I have to answer. So, as I said, once again, I very much ask for the same flaming speeches at the faction meeting. Now with regard to the organization of Parliament's work, I would like to ask you: would it be right if we failed a similar appeal in Parliament? You see, we should also have responsibility. When we go to the European Union, we just have to imagine if we were to be seen from Russia, they'd say that Parliament didn't vote to turn -- to recognize Russia as an aggressor. So we should also have a high level of responsibility. And when I endure this question for tomorrow, it allows us to make this decision tomorrow, not to embarrass ourselves, let it be the fault of those who have not come to work. And most importantly, when we make a signal vote, it's reflected in your electronic system. You have access to see all the MPs that are here, to sound, to show and to show. Now we have the last question, 15 minutes before we finish our work, we have the opportunity to discuss this issue now, so that tomorrow we can accept it in one minute. And so as a person who organizes the work of the Supreme Council, I think we're going the right way. And I'm asking MPs to do the same explanatory work on factions. And that's going to be the right thing to do. Thank you. Please, Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine, who are watching us! Well, you can see for yourself how many national deputies are present in the hall, and I want to explain to the Ukrainian citizens that they are talking about that they've come to trade and that there are now no Ukrainian national deputies just from the coalition, they're trading new, good, profitable resources in a new government that will be created. But I would like the Ukrainian national deputies to carry out their constitutional duty and work in their workplace today. And I want to remind those who have had the experience of previous calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Wednesday was actually such a day. It was once suggested that this would be a day of opposition to put up laws that put up opposition, because experience shows that on Wednesday it is virtually safe to pass the law so that 226 deputies are voted for it, very small, because on Wednesdays in general, national MPs, as today, do not like to go to the session room. And that's why I'm surprised by who's the initiator of putting such important, life-important issues to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people, which is the fate of our citizens, the fate of our boys, who have become subjective or subjective prisoners of war or people who are being illegally held back. So I would very much urge the Ukrainian National Deputies, even though, out of respect for these people, to their fate, to be on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to discuss this issue and to vote. And the next. Today I hear a very strange thing when the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine says, "Dear ones, we still have to contribute to the ratification of the Rome Statute." Dear friends, why did you yesterday, when you were listening to the government report, yes, one of you did not open your Coalition Agreement and see that one of the first points of your Coalition Agreement, which has been a year, is the ratification of the Rome Statute? And I have a question for your conscience and your conscience. Where is the execution of your Coalition Agreement? Where was the Rome Statute ratified? Dear friends, be honest with those who look at us today. Do not deceive them. Because you say one thing, you think another, and you do a completely third. And the next. Dear colleagues, today I hear that we do not have to implement the Minsk Accords. Dear friends, be somewhat responsible, for the whole world has accepted the Minsk Accords. Today and the United States, remember, this is where the Vice President of the United States of America said literally that there is no alternative to the Minsk Accords. And the countries of the European Union. Why is today the 10 bills implementing the Minsk Accords not under consideration and not even in the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why? And if tomorrow, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u147	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u148	The Motherland came out of the coalition today, yes. Tomorrow. Well, there's no "self-help" in objective circumstances today. I feel like self-help will come out of the coalition tomorrow. I mean, maybe tomorrow we'll start counting down the 30 days of the cabinet of this Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's at least do our duty -- and ratify the Minsk Statute, and bring into consideration the 10 laws that implement the Minsk Accords, so that Ukraine can move forward and make this coalition of wars.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. We have 10 minutes before we finish our work. Those 10 minutes, we're going to go through the final stage of the discussion. This is a speech from the National Deputies. Anyone who wishes to speak, please prepare for the recording. Ten minutes to address the people's deputies. And we're closing the discussion. They're getting ready, aren't they? Please hold the recording, please. Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u150	Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u151	Who? Head, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u152	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable national MPs, distinguished viewers and radio listeners! Indeed, it is very sad to speak in a semi-empty room where there are not even 100 national deputies, and the problem of the crippling irresponsibility of all factions and discipline speaks of the fact that this Parliament has virtually bankrupted, and in a society of national trust it no longer has. And especially after yesterday's events. I want to say a few words for this law that we're considering. This is a very important bill and we should really go to international representatives today. Nevertheless, we would like to raise the subject of the Minsk Accords and this form of negotiations of the active authority that sits at the table of negotiations with Putin, which imposes changes to the Constitution and endures any demands. But before we start asking for any sanctions on the aggressor and calling for us to support the world, we have to start with ourselves. After two years of war, not ATO! Because the ATO in France lasted a period of time. In one day, they covered the borders, cleared the area, destroyed all the terrorists. We have two years of war where thousands of better sons and daughters of Ukraine die. So given this war in the east, our country has failed to apply sanctions to the aggressor. Today, Poland is covering the Russian fur movement, and Ukraine cannot do so. For over a year now, we have registered laws that require us to vote down: abolish activity, ban Russian banks, Russian firms, their capital, which works in Ukraine, which finances terrorism, which finances war in the eastern part of the Ukrainian state. But neither the government nor Parliament have been able to put these laws to the vote and vote. We want Europe and America to apply sanctions to Russia as an aggressor and in no way do they do anything about it. On the contrary, the smuggling, the complete contractor, the arms trade, and everything else. Of course, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is also in charge of Habakkuk and other high-ranking officials. And so to say that there's an obvious farce going on today, we don't have a whole state position on the aggressor. And we have to start with ourselves first. Because today we're being pushed by this Donbas, as if this gangrene is going to decompose the Ukrainian state. Today they're forcing us to bring amnesty to terrorists, while they're bullying ours, against our soldiers, who they're practically killing there in public. And we are forced to vote amnesty, to change the Constitution. Thus, such actions can be viewed only as betrayal. And our political power calls for such ratification, and of course we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u153	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u154	I'm sorry for your inaction. What you're not going to work, you're speeding up the process of disbanding this Council, this Parliament, and the immediate one that we need, today society demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u155	Martovitchki gives the word Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u156	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Ladies and gentlemen, once again from this rostrum on behalf of the Opposition Block, I address all of you. We are on the verge of a major political and administrative crisis in Ukraine. Today, it is not the issue of political ambition or the existence of political blocs today. We don't have an ideological society these days. There are no ideological parties. There are technological projects. Today, who has a higher rating, who should not have a smaller one in the daytime order. The agenda is the government crisis, the parliamentary crisis. This is in the hands of external aggression. And who wants to set the situation on fire and ask simple or unforgivable people to go out on the streets is actually acting on the hand of external aggression. I urge everyone in this room to stop humiliating each other. I don't know who they're talking about, but I have to say, there's so many roller coasters sitting here, that "wat" compared to that is just some kind of achievement. Now, as far as the matter is concerned. Dear colleagues, today we need to understand, by voting in favour of those decrees, that we do not solve the main issue of putting an end to war. The war casts Ukraine far away. You know someone here who might be sorry for Kravczuk, and I'll tell you, for the first president, we should all thank each other. Keep Ukraine in such borders without a single drop of blood, and the next president who could keep his balance should be able to do so. I feel as if the presidents of Ukraine ended up on Kuchma and Kravczuk. And it is not known whether Peter first would become a great Peter. Today, much depends on his position in this Parliament. Repeat our position on the Opposition Block. We have recognized the work as negative, unsatisfactory, and insist on it. But we're not going to let our hands solve personnel problems, you're going to assign, please, you're going to eliminate them. What was the result of the war? People are good when they're good. Bootberg's rating. Everybody knows it's Bloomberg. The Ukrainian economy is part of the world’s five unhappy economies. The conclusion of the International Intellectual Property Alliance, which brings together seven of America’s largest content manufacturers, is recognized by Ukraine as the world’s most pirate country. People are good, it's all happening when the coalition took responsibility in this room. Do you know why there is no unity today? Because you can't say that opposition is governmental or not, because you've overthrown the Opposition Act. Go back to the European norm, vote for the Opposition Act, you will have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u157	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u158	Then the coalition will have the right to say that its program is pro-European, and it goes to the European community. You'll be there tomorrow or you'll want to be there, and there's no legal basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u159	Andrew Lozova gives Volodymyr Parasuk a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u160	I don't know who that gentleman he was talking to, well, there's two men in the Opposition Block. And I also want to turn to the people who are voting for the Opposition Block: these are your supporters who, there, vote for the Shockin who voted for the government's release yesterday. Now, let's talk about what's hurt. You know, everyone knows how to go home, and when they discover the monuments of the Celestial 100th or the heroes of the ATO, they are all very good at talking about Russian aggression, they're very good at talking about heroes, they're good at patriotism. Only we forgot that our heroes will soon have no food. We have forgotten how we should answer those questions when we are asked by the families of the dead. Why should Russian furs stop activists? Why should Crimea block activists too? Why do Russian banks work? Why does Russian business not exist but develop? Why is it that only the President's business is developing in Ukraine and that other business is not being developed? That's what we forget to talk about. We forgot about that. We only know how to privatize and manipulate certain phenomena in this society. Now, really, just turn the camera around and see who's sitting here. These are the servants of the people, and all the others, where are they? Where did they go now? Now what I'm saying is, when we took this government, we all talked about being responsible. Where Is Your Responsibility? Your honor, did you appoint him? They steal money, they don't reform. A. Who should be responsible? But you have to be responsible, those who pressed the "for" button a year ago, and those who didn't press the "for" button yesterday and for their resignation should be held accountable. That's where it's true, not coming out here with high-paired slogans. That's where reality is. And to our deputy speaker. Mr. Andrew, please don't manipulate the situation. When you need it, you put it to a vote 10 times, and when you have to make some decision that you really need in Ukraine, you close it very quickly. You don't tell me there's a political crisis in the country. Yes, there is a political crisis in the country. And society needs to know that because society needs the basic truth. Thank you for your attention. And thank you Andrey Loz for taking the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u161	Thank you. I've had a call, I'll respond. You know, I can just say my assessment of the crisis -- it's when we see the strategic trends of the state, when we have different visions in strategic directions. I'm telling you, a general political vision. Today, we have the whole Ukrainian power in foreign policy: both the President, and the Government, and the Parliament, first of all, the Parliament, most of it is pro-European. We're the only ones on the outside: and assessments of Russia's aggression, and our European choice. I think that when we are in internal politics in strategic ways: joining NATO, supporting the Ukrainian army, we are the only ones. And just when I'm talking about crisis analysis, I think there's a crisis when there's an idea of differences, and I'm sorry, not human differences. Because when there are human differences, I appreciate it not as a crisis, but as an assessment and a struggle for some chairs. That's my personal evaluation. I simply answered Mr. Volodymyr, who asked. One more thing. I'm not asking a few questions today. Well, Mr. Vladimir, I've explained that we fail these laws is wrong, it's not good. I'm quite frankly saying that there are no votes in the room right now to make a decision. But we're having an important thing: we're having a discussion so that tomorrow we don't waste time discussing those important laws so that we can quickly vote on them in the chapter "pBefore we've talked about them." Actually, that's the whole point of our work right now, of our discussion. I told my assessment that there were no MPs present. I won't do it again. I've talked twice about this evaluation today. But we are now doing an important part of our parliamentary work. After discussing these bills, tomorrow we will be able to quickly and effectively adopt them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the bill, please, 30 seconds, Mrs. Irina. As soon as Mrs. Irina has her opinion, maybe we won't even put the beep on, and we'll move it right away. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u162	I thank you for that, because it's not the kind of decision you can put to the vote. First of all, I want to respond to Mr. Lozov's speech. Our hero of Ukraine, Jaroshevich, is on those lists that Ukraine demands and submits in order to free him and his colleagues from captivity. And it's really a hostage, and it's our job to free him and his heroes. And I want to emphasize once again, fellow honourable Members, because in the course of this discussion, I'm going to appeal to you simply that we should address all the parliaments of the world, all of our international partners, demanding to support Ukraine in the need to carry out the humanitarian aspects of the Minsk Accords. Every hostage has to be released -- it's Ukraine's job. But this is where the whole world has to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-17-m0.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. With your permission, I won't even put a signal vote on either once or ten. We're just moving this question to tomorrow's section of "earlier discussed." And my fellow Members, I would like to stress the important thing: tomorrow we have again, I think, the key questions about Euro-integration, when we get a visa-free regime. Committees today at 3 p.m. I call upon all factions to mobilize as much as possible to be on the committees of the quorum, and so that tomorrow we can make a decision. To my profound conviction, this is a crucial question to see whether there is a European coalition in Parliament, whether there is a European coalition in Parliament. Tomorrow it will be a challenge for all of us, and so I very much ask everyone to be as mobilized as possible, come tomorrow, and participate in Parliament's work. I would like to announce that today at 15:00 a parliamentary hearing will be held in the session hall of the Supreme Council on the theme "The State of Compliance with the Rights of Internally Moved Persons and Citizens of Ukraine residing in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine and in an area not controlled by Ukrainian authorities in the ATO. " And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue at 10 o'clock, but after lunch, important committees. I very much ask and urge the deputies to participate in committees, especially in those where visa liberalisation laws will be considered. Thank you. Good-bye.
