ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. I'd like you to sign up. Please register, colleagues. [[10:03:46]] Registered in the 309 National Deputies Hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 72 years from the date of Stalin’s criminal order to evict the entire Crimean Tatar population of Crimea, which has already been declared genocide by the civilian population. During the main deportation wave of May 18 - 20, more than 180,000 persons were evicted in three days. Deportation had disastrous consequences for Crimean Tatars at places of exile. More than 30,000 Crimean Tatars were killed by famine, disease, and exhaustion. Only independent Ukraine allowed Crimean Tatars to return to their homeland, where their great - grandfathers, grandparents, and parents were expelled, and to live free of fear, arrest, and persecution. The Russian occupation of Crimea restored the Crimean Tatar population in times of severe oppression and persecution. The main organ of the Crimean Tatar organization, Majlis, has been declared by Russian occupationists by an extremist organization. Fear and awareness of their own crime force the invaders to ban even sad measures against the memory of the victims of deportation. Sadly, such pressures are being experienced in Crimea and Ukraine. Together, we will throw away the Russian invader and free all the Ukrainian lands, build our common happy future. Crime is Ukraine! Honorable colleagues, now in various cities throughout Ukraine, will take steps to honor the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people during their forced deportation. At 12 o’clock a nationwide silence will take place, and TV stations and radio stations will transmit a special signal. "May 18 all of us are Crimean Tatars." And so at 12 o'clock, like all Ukrainians around the world, we honor each other in every corner, together with a minute of silence, we celebrate the sad day of our history, the day of deportation. Thank you very much. We're continuing the session. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Natalya Jurijovna Královska. [[Applause]] And, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. And I'm asking the National MPs to prepare for Self-Help and record. Please record. And, colleagues, half an hour of questioning does not provide for a decision to be made. I will, with your permission, hand over the leadership of the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Oksani Siroid, at the time of the performances. There is a funeral of one of the Midan’s self - defense officers. And in the meantime, I'm going to go out for half an hour and say goodbye to the ceiling and come back in half an hour to continue the session. Thank you very much. Mrs. Oksana, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u2	Thank you. Good morning, distinguished national deputies. Let's move on to the performances. In connection with the blockade of the rostrum, I ask the national deputies to make their statements. Please, National Deputy Sergey Leschchenko, Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u3	I ask you to pass the word to Yuri the Woodcock.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u4	Please, George Derevyanco, national deputy, nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Today I want to draw your attention to the problem of rural people, local self - government, of the problem that we have in connection with the adoption of the budget, namely, that we today have a large number of rural and rural councils that do not have enough income to sustain our local self - government. This means that, according to the budget code, the district budgets are not able to list the necessary funds today so that these appropriate rural and rural councils can continue to be viable. For example, in the area of Ivano-Frankow, where about 500 rural and rural councils are now about 200 (200, I emphasize) rural and rural councils are at the point of closure, because there is no way to pay the wages, there is no way to fund the necessary costs at all. That's why I'm asking you, fellow national MPs, to correct this situation immediately, and there's a registered 4208 bill that will be put into the agenda tomorrow. Please support him so that we can correct this error. The error is very simple, it is that the current budget code requires that certain contracts be made by 1 August of the previous year so that these funds can be transferred from the district budget to the rural budget. And the second question that I wanted to draw your attention to, my dear colleagues. And this is a matter of government, I am addressing Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Since the beginning of the year, Minstat has introduced so - called new forms of farm books. That means counting all of our rurals. The inhabitants of the countryside, their courtyards, are carried out in the very so - called farm book. And so it happened that a lot of data came out of this farm book that is not fully accounted for today. At the same time, the lack of information makes it impossible to issue the necessary documents, especially to help low - income families, to provide subsidies, to compensate for solid fuel, to form an inheritance, to assist with funerals, and other important things. So when I speak to the Prime Minister, I ask the Ministry of Statistics to give appropriate instructions to the Statistical Department, to the Office of Statistics, which are appropriate to each area, to return the form of the farm book that existed before the beginning of this year. Those innovations that have been made are destroying the entire accounting base for local governments. Therefore, I would like to request that the Prime Minister be given appropriate instructions in order to return the possibility of the calculation and execution of delegated powers by appropriate rural and village councils on the ground. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national MP Jaroslav Jedakow, the political party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u7	Please give the word to your colleague Yelen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, the venerable Crimean Tatar people! I want to remind you of the words that became famous: "When strangers come, they come to your house, they kill you all and say, "It's not our fault." You took my world, I didn't have the Motherland." The great vocals of Jamal brought the pain of the Crimean Tatar nation to the world. The song "1944" passed on all the tragedy that the Crimean Tatar people experienced on May 18, 44. Thousands and thousands of people died on the road to Central Asia, killing even more in settlements. We will never forget this date, we will never forget deportation, we will never forget the suffering that the Crimean Tatar people have experienced and are experiencing. Together with all the Ukrainians, we say today, "We are also the Crimean Tatars." On November 12, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recognized the deportation of Crimean Tatars as genocide and declared May 18 the Day of Complaints. It is indeed a day of mourning, a day of tragedy that is deepened by the occupying authorities. The ban on Majlis, the search in Crimean Tatar mosques, the search for literature, imprisonment, disappearance, all of this is a reality that the Crimean Tatar community, the Crimean Tatar people, faced today in their homeland. Our colleagues, Mustafa Djemilev, Refat Chubarov, Ludmila Denisov, cannot return to their Fatherland. Today, on behalf of the Ukrainian people in general, and on behalf of the People's Front, we have to say that Crimea is Ukrainian land. The second is that we will never get back together, and we can never get the sanctions off until the Crimea is occupied. Third, there can be no division in solving the problem of Crimea and Donbas. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u9	Please, 10 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u10	For several years, I spoke on behalf of our political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u11	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u12	The Simferopol theater in front of a rally of Crimean Tatars. of the Crimean Tatar people. I believe that we are not once more and all Ukrainian parties, and all Ukrainians will come out of this balcony. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Crimean Tatar people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u13	Thank you. The national deputy Golovko gave the floor to the national deputy Illenka, who was not a factionist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u14	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, today I would like to pay attention to a subject that concerns all without exception the citizens, because it concerns their daily lives, their welfare. You know, we're told all the time that Ukraine can't influence anything, the authorities are telling us that we're completely addicted, we don't have any ability to pursue any kind of policy. This is us who are being dictated from abroad, especially from the International Monetary Fund, what we're being told, we have to do mechanically and pray for the good will to do something. You know, the interesting news came from abroad, in particular that the International Monetary Fund is calling on the countries of the eurobonds to give Greece, you know that in Greece the situation is extremely difficult with respect to their debt and so on, not to pay interest or the principal amount of debt by 2040, reports the authoritative publication The Wall Street Journal, referring to officials familiar with the negotiating situation. The IMF proposes that the payment deadline for Greece should be set for decades after 2040 – by 2080. And over the course of 30 to 40 years, interest on loans should be fixed at the current average of 1.5 percent. Of course, there are negotiations and it is clear that this will not be accepted. But look, this is the position of the International Monetary Fund. So the Greek government has been able to negotiate and propose conditions, and the International Monetary Fund is going into these compromising conditions. But we're told that there can't be any compromise, we don't have any position at all, and we just have to do everything we're told to do. It turns out that's not true, that's not true. Let the Ukrainian people know. Perhaps the problem is simply in our power? Who thinks first of all about their corruption schemes, their preservation, and in no way thinks about protecting national interests, and is willing to trade these national interests, give in to them just to preserve their schemes. And the first thing that we're talking about here is the same offshores that we're talking about all the time, that it's a colossal black hole that makes Ukraine lose billions, tens of billions of dollars, and it keeps losing. Now, even in Parliament, there is no political will to create a TSC on this issue. It's just unthinkable. We're talking all the time about this offshore scandal that's rocked the entire political system around the world, and in Ukraine we can't even create a temporary investigation commission even with the cut-off powers that it now has. But it's not just the TSC that needs to be created, you need to adopt legislation that won't allow you to continue to wash billions, tens of billions of dollars out of the Ukrainian economy. In particular, our Freedom Bill on Deofshorization, which we registered back in the last summons, in March of the 13th year, which is unregistered in this call to parliament, but for some reason they don't want to consider it. That is why these are the first questions that should stand in the order of the day’s parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy John Kirilenko, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u16	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague Igor Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u17	Please, Igor Lucenko, National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear society, we as the national electorate, the authorities in general, we now hear that we have to fight corruption, and every day we are approached by people. Unfortunately, today, it has to be noted that corruption has been referred to only one -- to the creation of new institutions to combat corruption. As long as they work, God knows him. But unfortunately, for today, we see the tremendous challenges that arise in this context. First of all, we need to understand what corruption is. So we hear that offshore is normal, and all over the world, businessmen use offshores. But it's not normal around the world when officials start using the same offshore tools. And this is actually a series of scandals now that officials from Latin America to Europe resign because their name appears in the context of offshore. What do we see in Ukraine? No anti-offshoring initiative, no anti-corruption initiative in the context of the very rule and use of offshore officials, has been supported either in Parliament or in executive power or in law enforcement agencies. What fight against corruption in this context can we then talk about? The Fatherland faction has offered several mechanisms in this context. In particular, a bill that defuses our entire economy and our entire policy. What's happening to him now? He's blocking himself at the committee level. So we also propose that, together with our coalition colleagues, we create a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate in a proper parliamentary way what we have heard from journalists about the ownership of certain officials, including the highest-ranking, offshore businesses. Now, unfortunately, this is blocked at the level of Parliament. The negotiations on this committee are just international military actions. So we call on these initiatives to support and move, and to understand what's going on around all of this. I urge everyone to understand that the fight against corruption is a struggle for balance in the state. The opposition has rights, the opposition has the opportunity, it must be possible for the Temporary Investigation Commission as an instrument to be in order for you to verify all charges of authority. Similarly, we need to understand that the balance of power is also the existence of an instrument such as the Court of Auditors and the opposition. Without the balance of power, friends, the fight against corruption will be cartoon, ridiculous and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u19	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of national deputy Oleg Kulinić.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u20	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to draw attention to the problems of privatising state-owned enterprises, namely the problems of privatising state-owned enterprises in the APC area. I would like to point out right now that I personally support the idea of privatizing state enterprises, but I need to understand the consequences of such privatization. The state is not an effective owner, it is clear, and such enterprises are often converted into food factories that feed corruption. But privatization must take social factors into account, taking into account the problems of rural areas. And basically, people need to understand the idea of this privatization that will be the result of such privatization. For several plenary weeks, the government has unsuccessfully tried to include in the agenda a bill of 4536, which is proposed to privatize hundreds of state-owned enterprises. And there are no voices in the room because MPs don't understand how privatization is going to take place, such as ports, alcohol? For example, I have many questions about the privatization of the APC. I'd like to give you a specific example from my constituency, this is Poltava County, Mirgorod Region, Mirgorod City, 147 constituency district. There's a company called the Dubrian Horse Factory, number 62, which is a subsidiary of the Ukrainian Army, which is subordinated to the Minagropolitics. A group of businesses are concerned that privatization will not give people land particles, that is, people will not get pies, and there will be no disintegration. Last Saturday, I met the village head Jan Klinsky, who gave me the message of people’s problems and concerns. The population is concerned that as a result of privatization, people are simply going to lose their jobs, and the only one in the area is going to disappear, which is a very successful film school, which is going to be affected by the social sphere of the village. And the consequences will be unpredictable. Not to mention the loss of elite horseback, which has already been cut nearly twice in recent years. So the bill 4536 proposed in the government that we send businesses to. Privatization, we must, we must take into account the social consequences. In particular, it is not clear what will happen to the land of these enterprises: Will humans receive pies, or will there be a simple corporation when no one receives pies? So I think the privatization mechanism needs to be clear and clear. I ask you to consider my statement to the Minister of Agropolitics Taras Kutov. The Ministry should clearly explain the mechanism for privatising state-owned enterprises in the APC area. Simple people need to understand what will happen to their businesses, whether they will get their own pies, what they are given by law. And we have to take off the social tension because the consequences can be unforeseeable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Leonid Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u22	I'd like a word with Gulivav, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u23	May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Guljava.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u24	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, 140th constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. As a Marjorie MP, I am constantly in the fields, hearing from ordinary people, from the Presidents of rural and rural councils, the problem in the legislative code of land. Simply put, it's a landfill of land outside human settlements. I want to say that the local communities are no longer running the land. The land is managed by ordinary dealers who divide the land outside the populated area. And who do you think this land is getting to? Is it possible for those people who have lived on these lands for over 50 years who have worked there to support the economy? You think this land gets to the ATO soldiers, to whom we have made a strong promise of land allocation after they get all the certificates. No, of course it's land, just to say, it's sinking. What do you think it's coming down? On Kiev students mostly. I have right in my district, and I think after all these institutes, universities will come and live with me and grow some grain or something. And you think that's true? Of course, they won't come, this land will just fall apart. The worst part is that it goes to the legislative level, neither the Presidents of the rural councils, nor the village councils, nor even the Gozemkadastra can do anything, because this procedure is not legal and today the land can be distributed. You know, we are the only ones who can solve this issue, we are the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, no laws have been passed for more than a year to stop this deridan. Law 4355 was passed on first reading, and the Rebirth Party also acts as co-authors. And we need to take it urgently because we can't stop the debris of this land. To date, we have 159 united communities, to whom we have all promised to give the land and to be able to manage it. To date, this is not the case, and all those united communities, all the presidents of these united communities, do not know what to say to people and what to tell them. And we want to do a decentralization of power that is not going to work today. Because all those who have not united are looking at those who have united, who cannot do anything. So if we don't adopt some laws, directly 4355, and we don't let go, the decentralization of power in Ukraine will just fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Eugene Balitsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u27	May I have the floor of national deputy Eugene Balitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, today requires significant changes in society, and we expect real reforms from our deputies. One of the most painful issues is the long-awaited reform of local self-government, which will make communities a real source of power. The main contentious issues are now being discussed on the main contentious issues of the legislative framework of local self-government. One such issue is the change to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the appointment of heads of regional public administrations. Parliament has been approached by members of the regional councils who believe that governors should not be appointed from above but elected by local councils by direct vote. We see in this sense as well as in the opposition, which is fully in line with democratic European norms. And this is a very important and painful question for us. We still have a dualism of power in the country that we cannot overcome. Every new power by overcoming this phenomenon by usurpation by the Presidential authorities. By law, local councils must have authority, and it is the local councils that must manage budgetary resources in their territories. This has to be an axiom for all of us. In fact, these funds are managed by regional public administrations. The Board's budgets include the delegation of authority to the budgetary authority of the administration. But this rule is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government and the Budget Code of Ukraine. It turns out that the Presidential Vertical is a real power on the ground, but not people, and people have not chosen it. The leaders of the Territories must choose the inhabitants of those Territories. Then this leader will not depend on the central authority or the dictatorship of that branch, which has existed for 25 years. And every new head of the district public administration cares not about the territory, but about the community, but about how he likes his patron, the President. The mechanism for the realization of the rights of territorial communities, their leaders on the ground, I believe, should be such: the community elects its own MP, and the deputies vote directly on the Council by secret ballot, which is the President of the Council, who is the Chairman of the executive body, as amended by the Constitution. That is when we can say that the governor has indeed been elected by the people, and he carries all the power in front of the entire community. Another really important issue is the delimitation of powers of the central and local authorities. My view is that such an instrument can be an agreement on such a distinction, but it is clear that it is necessary to amend the Constitution. The agreement should include specific responsibilities of the central local authority in specific territories, in other words, complement and specify laws in a particular territory. In order to bring together all the healthy initiatives of the territorial communities, to consolidate them and to come up with real proposals for a change to the Constitution, a working group of professionals and people's deputies should be established. I invite all colleagues to give serious thought to this issue, and to support this initiative in order to strengthen democratic principles and the prosperity of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u29	Welcome to the speech of the National MP, Alona Babak, "self-help" faction. Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u30	Honourable members of the Ukrainian Parliament, there is one thing that unites us all, is the desire to create conditions for the economic growth and well-being of Ukrainians. At the same time, common sense tells us today that the decision to increase the price of gas leads to more than half of Ukrainian families, which are 9 million families with 16 and a half, becoming below the poverty line. The other 30 actually end up on the verge of survival. And that's not exactly what we're looking for. We have two possible solutions with you to ensure that there is a real increase in investment in this country and create conditions for economic development. Regrettably, this decision today is two that is the result of a tariff decision. The first is to reduce the price of gas for heating, and the second is to reduce consumption. Regarding the reduction in the price of gas for heating. We should not interfere as parliamentarians in the price policy introduced by the government. But what we can do and what "self-help" suggests is to set a limit on availability of services when government pricing policies are introduced. Set it to 40 percent of Ukraine’s households. That is, under any combination of price increases, so that the citizens to receive subsidies do not exceed 40 percent of Ukraine's households. We cannot liberalize prices by making the poor more than half of the population of Ukraine. This is the first one. And the second. Tomorrow we can go with you, and that's self-help, when voting for changes to the state budget, not spend 5 billion dollars on housing subsidies, but send these 5 billion dollars to investment, co-finance the warming of houses and the consumption of heat in houses. So for the two measures that can actually reduce consumption. This is regulation of consumption and warming. We call on the entire parliament to support the Self-Help Initiative and direct these 5 billion to investment, to create jobs this summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Dubnevich, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. On April 27, 2016, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine set a price for natural gas of 6 000,879 dollars per cubic metre. Despite government support in the form of subsidies to socially vulnerable citizens, the regulations that have been called upon to improve the way subsidies are granted cause deep concern. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of April 27, 2016 No.319 introduces a rule whereby, after the heating season, part of the unused amount of individual heating subsidies is returned by the producer of such services to the budget. This rule takes away any incentive for the economic consumption of gas in individual combustion and the introduction of energy-efficient technologies, because the savings in subsidies are actually taken back by the state, energy efficiency should become one of the government's strategic directions. So if the consumer was economically consuming gas, I suggest leaving his unused amount of subsidies if he uses it to increase the energy efficiency of the apartment, to install more efficient heating equipment for the buildings, to replace the heating system. In addition, many citizens have used solid - fuel boilers in recent years to burn in parallel with gas, and the active way in which subsidies are accounted for is simply a level playing field. So a logical step is to allow at least some of the savings in the grant to buy solid alternative fuels. The heavy price of real energy independence of the state should not lie on the shoulders of ordinary citizens alone. We have to do everything we can to reduce the consumption of expensive gas by supporting energy-efficient measures primarily by those who don't have money for it today. A clear example of the good idea of implementing microprojects is that of my heart Lvivščina, where the Lviv district council headed by the district council Alexander Hanoščin and the head of the district administration Oleg Sinyutka developed a program of microprojects and today 647 microprojects are being implemented on energy efficiency in Lvivščina. If we, if the government changes the decision and allows the funds to be involved for energy efficient measures to the population, we will keep about 5 million microprojects all over Ukraine, and this will provide a bright and good example of energy efficient implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u33	Give it to you. 30 seconds? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u34	I'm going to the government and I'm going to the people's deputies. Let us work daily, not with the slogans, to make Ukraine a truly independent energy state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u35	And the last performance we have is Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you, colleagues. Yesterday, public and justice won the first major victory over corruption and lawlessness in Kiev. The state architectural and building inspection cancelled the permit for the illegal construction of many floors right on the shore of Dniper, Mikilsko-Slobidsk. But with all the corruption of the system, I would like to appeal to you and ask you to continue to do everything we can to protect the Greek-Catholic Patriarchate from destruction as a result of reckless illegal construction. This construction is a concentrated example of bribery, lawlessness, and total impunity against the common people. Against over 9 million believing Greek-Catholics, against over 2 million citizens of almost 50 countries in the world who were raising money to build a cathedral in Kiev, against the very idea of inviting his Holiness the Pope to Ukraine. This is an unprecedented challenge for several people who have long forgotten that there is a new President, a new Prime Minister, a new Prime Minister of Kiev, and there is no doubt that everything will come out of hand. Special cynicism is added by the fact that this construction company, Ukrabud, seems to be state-owned. Although, as we can see, it has nothing to do with national interests. So we're dealing with people who called Dnipro a small river and started an illegal construction on the shore of Dnipra high. These heights have already led to cracks in the main council of the Ukrainian Greek Catholics and if this challenge is not stopped by all building standards, heights will become a symbol of corruption and powerlessness in Kiev led by the city's head, Klick. In that statement, I ask all believing members of the Supreme Council to unite in defense of the congregation. And from the call to the conscience of the outsiders to take decisive action, proving that we can help the church just as the chaplains help our heroes on the fore: shoulder to shoulder, word of faith, and blessing of love. I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council, the President and the Prime Minister, the Mayor of Kiev to be with us in the fight for justice. In the near future, builders intend to obtain a warrant in a court that will allow construction to be restored. We have in common, without delay, now do everything we can to prevent corruption from overcoming common sense again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u37	Thank you very much. The time for performances in "Variance" is over. I have yet to announce two announcements that have come to the fore. First of them, the announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrini, into the party's deputy faction, "Block of Peter Prashenko". And the next statement. It's an ad. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Promoting the Development of Water Transport of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich, was elected head of this association. We welcome Dennis Olegovich. I would also like to inform you that, traditionally, a statement has been made to the Presidency to announce a recess at the request of MPs in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "Please announce the adjournment of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." A signature from the "Radical Party" Oleg Lazko and from "self-help" by Berezuk. According to the Rules, the faction has the right to declare a recess, not to replace it with a speech, but to take a break. And I'm asking the initiators to take a break so we can have a political consultation. Thank you. At half an hour, a break is announced. We meet in the hall at 11:15, respectively. At 11:15, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. As a result of the break, the word is given to the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The second week, the Radical Party faction blocks the parliamentary rostrum, demanding the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council for the investigation of facts published in the media, for the registration of the President of Ukraine and other senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the state, the offshore. Here's the corresponding draft of the decree that I signed, honorary colleagues of Berezuk, Julia Timoshenko, Victor Vuk, Sergey Sobolev. Unfortunately, we still have no way of registering this draft decision. Unfortunately, respectable colleagues from the BPT faction block the possibility of opposition to start an anti-corruption investigation in parliament by creating an appropriate commission of inquiry. I am surprised by the impotence of the Ukrainian Parliament and the unwillingness to investigate the corruption of senior officials of the state. The whole world is investigating corruption. There's a whole anti-corruption forum in London involving leaders of states, leaders of governments who decide how to shut down Panamanian, Virginian and so on, how to make sure that senior government officials don't register their companies in offshores and pay taxes, don't rob citizens. Everyone, the whole world is investigating. Including today, our colleague, Dmitri Gnap, is scheduled to present the next result of an offshore scandal investigation. And the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities refuse to investigate corruption in the leadership of the state. Yesterday, we finally received a response from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau regarding our appeal for corruption by the finance minister Daniluk. NABU argues that there is no reason to hold Daniluk accountable, who is also the director of three offshore companies, for drawing him to responsibility. The head of the National Bank of Honduras, which runs the offshore business with Russian bankers, has no reason to hold it accountable. Other officials, such as Gladkowski, deputy secretary of the NPB, who runs the offshore business, have no reason to be held accountable. I have a very simple question, and then who should I call to account in this country? Members of the opposition and radical party, or those who are currently in power of the country, do not pay taxes, register offshores and rob Ukrainian citizens? So I demand the Head of Parliament, from the parliamentary majority, to allow the opposition to exercise its right to anti-corruption investigations into the corruption of senior officials. We're not leaving.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I will only briefly respond to the need for each faction to give its representatives to the TSC, and we expect proposals from all factions, that's the norm. Yeah, he hasn't given Peter Dusty's Block yet. And they have, by law, the right to make such a decision. In addition, I would like to inform you that, according to the law, an MP who is already in one TSC cannot be a member of another TSC. In this case, this is true of the people’s MP Moseschuk. Oleg Valeriyovich, Mosiyczuk, if he is a member of another TSC, cannot be a member of this TSC. In order to settle these legal issues, you must also have an internal faction discussion. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the agenda. We have our first reading. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to create favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages. An important piece of legislation does seem that there will be no political debate and it is important that we be able to make the necessary decision. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall. Now I'm going to put to the vote a motion to review the draft law in short motion. If such a proposal is supported, we will consider the simplified procedure, if not, we will consider the full procedure. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. For a reduced procedure, there may be votes. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? Therefore, who supports the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure, please vote. Colleagues, we're voting, please. [[11:23:52]] For 112 I see your hand's up, we're not there. Is there another way to put it? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, with motive. As the deputies enter, please enter the hall, Wojciekhovska Svetlana, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, these two bills – 2297 and 3467 – are extremely important for the development of charity in Ukraine. They're totally political. And our Ukrainian people have already proved themselves in the past. Last year, when we were raising money for the Ukrainian army, 38 million dollars were collected for the only number 565. If we don't adopt or fail this law today, we won't be able to use this effective effective law. I very much ask of you, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of our children, for the sake of our military, please enter the hall and we will consider this bill. I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to hold a rating vote, and we do not want to overthrow this bill today. This work was carried out by the Ukrainian charity forum, the International Tablets Forum and other organizations, international organizations. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we do have two bills: 2297 and 2297-1, and 3467 are extremely important and extremely responsible. And I'm addressing all the factions' heads, maximizing MPs in the room. And I think there's a point to supporting a reduced procedure. I'm talking to factions and Fatherland, and Self-help, and I think it's logical to support a reduced procedure. And, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm once again proposing a reduced procedure of 2297 and 2297. Colleagues, summary procedure, please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[11:26:30.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vojciekhovsk Svetlana Mikhailnov. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the main purpose of the bill is to develop an effective and effective fund-raising tool in Ukraine. And yet another purpose of this bill is to reduce. i.e. the absolute elimination of tax burden on charity messages. The main problem with the development of charity messages in Ukraine is that today, at one level, 30 cents should be taxed, 20 percent VAT and 7.5 dollars is a collection of funds for the Pension Fund. If we accept this bill, it will allow us to release the charitable messages from taxation and return to the operators, to compensate the taxes that have been paid in advance by the subscriber. The bill was designed and initiated by charities, mobile operators, and lawyers. I want to thank you very much for the Ukrainian charity forum, the International Charity Foundation. The bill supports the Reanimation Package of Reforms, USAID and all mobile operators. The bill was also supported by the Chief Communications Regulator, which is the National Commission for State Regulation and the Presidential Decree on the Approval of the National Strategy and Promoting the Development of Civil Society for 2016-2020 is one of the tasks of implementing charitable activities through the sending of charitable telecommunications messages. Yet the bill is found a year ago, registered year ago and is in the Supreme Council. During this time, taking into account the comments of GNEU, the Main Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u44	Please finish. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u45	..thankful organizations. And we also have a registered bill 2297-1 under the chairmanship of Ostrikov. I'm asking for a transcript, and I want to include the basic position of an alternative bill that expands the issue of charitable telecommunications. If possible, I will read it under the transcript, and we will merge the basics of these two bills into second readings to make them more complex. In particular, under the transcript: "Good telecommunication message initiated by the end equipment of the subscriber textual voice, set of numbers, use of signals recorded by the operator's equipment and telecommunications to the telephone number allocated for the collection of funds for charity purposes. In the event of a shipment, a beneficiary of a charitable telecommunication message, a telecommunication operator is obliged to recalculate previously paid by the subscriber, but not used for telecommunications services, an advance within the unused balance of the advance to the relevant non-profit organization or to the local community for charitable purposes for a term and in accordance with the conditions set out in the public contract." What I read under the transcript of the definition, I ask you to replace the term "beneficial text message" in part five of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Charity and Charity Organisations and in the text of the bill with a broader concept of "beneficial and telecommunications message". And please also include in part two of section 39 of the Telecommunications Act the following provision: that free of charge the telecommunications operator is provided with telephone services or services for transmission of a text message if they are made available to subscribers for sending a charitable telecommunication message. I'm asking you to support the bill as a basis. For our second reading, we will have the opportunity to work on it, to amend it, and to create a working group, and to unite the two bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u46	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Ostrikov Tetjana Georgievna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u47	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, the events of the last two years in the country have led to an extraordinary mobilization of civil society when active citizens of Ukraine are willing to sacrifice, to collect millions of dollars of charitable contributions to support the injured, families of the dead, oncological children, refugees, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. However, this social mobilization has exposed a number of challenging problems that stand in the way of the development of charity, the involvement of a wide range of citizens in supporting one or the other. Among them is the absence of a convenient and fast national tool for collecting charitable donations. The most common and effective modern tool for collecting charitable donations is the charity voice and text messages themselves. Unlike online or other technology, a text message is a safe way of counting money, since it does not require a benefactor to leave additional personal data with the user, to go, to stand in line with the bank, to give a deposit card. The convenience of this tool was demonstrated when Ukrainian citizens, using calls to the only mobile number "565" to support the Ukrainian army, counted 37 million dollars at the end of December 2014. Therefore, we must certainly settle this issue and introduce the concept of charitable voice and text messages into the legislative apparatus of Ukraine's legislation. That's why we propose to adopt appropriate amendments to the Charity Act, to introduce this concept of "good text messages," to introduce clear telecommunication operators' responsibilities, to establish that the cost of these charity messages is free, that telecommunications operators will not take money for this, to set a clear deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u48	Please, one minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u49	Also, set a time limit during which a mobile operator will be obliged to charge money to an organization or other charitable organization. How will this work? For example, you have prepaid 100 dollars in your mobile phone account. You give a voice message, like a mobile operator's order of 5 dollars from your subscription to count to a certain charity program. And a mobile operator is obliged to list this money to a charity on the basis of a public contract with it. The law defines mechanisms to prevent possible abuse, and we also work on the second reading. I ask you now to accept the proposal made by the national deputy Vojciekhovska, to vote on the basis of the bill for its authorship, which is mandatory in the Supreme Council ruling, those indicators that should be taken into account in determining the charitable text message, the time frame for counting funds, mobile duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u50	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u51	Take all the necessary items out of Law 2297-1 by my authority. And in this way, the copyright teams will unite and consolidate, and we will be able to work together effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u52	Thank you very much. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to take the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u53	Thank you. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on June 17, 2015, a year ago, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on creating favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages (number 2297) from 03.03. 2015 and draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to create favourable conditions for the introduction of a charitable voice and text message (number 2297-1). The proposed legislative proposals, along with the amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, the Ukrainian Act on "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance", provide for the introduction in Ukraine of such an effective modern tool for collecting charitable donations as charitable voice and text messages. Both laws no doubt have their own advantages. For example, Bill 2297 provides for congregation benefits for compulsory state pension insurance, and Bill 2297-1 provides for charitable contributions not only through textual but also by voice messages that are emphasized by speakers. Each bill has its own faults. As a result of the discussion of drafts, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality was unable to make a unanimous decision on them. I therefore recommend that the Supreme Council decide on its own projects 2297 and 2297-1 by voting. Now you've heard that the author of the alternative project 2297 asked for the support of Law 2297-1, Law 2297, with the amendments that were discussed and recorded under the transcript. The committee is ready after the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken the appropriate decision to create a working group, to work on the bill adopted and to make the bill a basis and to prepare for the second reading. So we ask the committee to support Bill 2297 as extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Let me remind you that Svetlana Wojciekhovska has formulated a compromise position. Now we only have one question to ask all the deputies to come into the hall. As long as the MPs are meeting, please record the two-in-pro, two-again. Please sign up. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u55	Please pass the word to our colleague Mrs. Oksani Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u56	Oksana Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u57	Oksana Bilozer, the Peter Dust Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize that this is a moral law. We all saw with you, and the whole world became convinced of the huge volunteer movement launched in Ukraine after the Dignity Revolution and during the Donbas war. So this law will give a new momentum to the rise of the volunteer movement, which is now beginning to discredit itself. It's on the one side. And on the other hand, we're going to allow most of our citizens, under simplified procedures without personal ballots, to quickly collect funds quickly. We all know with you that almost all our ATO soldiers are treated in private clinics -- not in state clinics, but in private clinics. They need a lot of money. And that's why this mechanism that we're starting right now will allow us to quickly collect these large sums of funds that we need. So please concentrate and vote for this important moral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u59	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable fellow national deputies, respected Ukrainians, 40 percent of whom said in sociological surveys that they had participated in volunteer charity activities in the past year alone. This is a huge army of Ukrainians who invest their money in charity. So the "Paternity" faction will certainly support this bill. What's more, texting is going to give you the opportunity to finally remove the problem that the person who put the money into it. First of all, all the money has to go to charity without any taxation. And second, it's going to be a very clear and transparent mechanism to make the money that a person has spent on charity to get to the address. Clearly, this bill must be approved. And as co-author of Bill 2297-1, I absolutely agree with what we're taking as a base in the first reading of 2297. But it is very important that there are 2297, particularly with regard to the charitable telecommunication message, regarding how funds are used that are collected by means of a charitable telecommunication message. Amendments to the bill, Ukraine's Telecommunications Act must be introduced. All of this will be taken into account when preparing Bill 2297 for second reading. Dear colleagues, this is a bill that goes into a number of those bills that have already been passed by this Parliament. In particular, the law on volunteering, where we have brought in all the volunteers who help the front, who have helped in the Dignity Revolution and who are actually working very effectively in Ukraine today. This bill is in a number of these bills, which is very necessary to mobilize Ukrainians to do charity work and to reduce any corruption in this component. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u61	Thank you very much. Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Masorini Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u63	Massorina Olena, People's Front. Dear colleagues, this bill has brought together all the charitable organizations in Ukraine today. And I'm sure he should do the same today. Virtue is really one of the great virtues of the Ukrainian people, and this bill will allow the issue of taxation to be settled and will allow in the most operational, quickest way to raise funds either for the sick child or for the help of the Ukrainian army or the wounded. That's why the People's Front will support this bill. And I'm asking all my colleagues to mobilize and support themselves as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'll give you my word to Melnichuku. I'll give it to you. And I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. And the factions' heads will invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible. Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The will of the people will, of course, uphold the law. But I want to look at something else. I want to pay attention to the police and to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because the person who accused 25 percent of the parliament using drugs, the person who was responsible for this issue, was transferred to another service at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it's in ATO. Because these costs that are going to be eliminated, and these comings are going to go into the same M.V.S., they will. A person who has the evidence that he or she is mentally ill will manage this and will supervise it. So I'm asking you to count this as my MP's request and to conduct an investigation: as a person who has left places that are not that distant has been placed in high office in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and will now be able to manage the costs and decide our fates and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u66	And, dear colleagues, Ostrika of Self-Help has yet to take the word of the Self-Help faction. Please turn on Tetya Georgievi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u67	My fellow Members, once again, I would like to stress that we would not allow any doubts to be raised that we are asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the results of the vote of Bill 2297 in the first reading to include the following provisions of Bill 2297-1. This is the definition of "beneficial order," which is in Bill 2297-1, this is article 7 marked 1 of the "Personality of the Public Collection of Charities with Charity Ordering", which is the amendments to the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine and this is the changes to the Law of Ukraine on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets." The Self-Help faction stands ready to support a consolidated bill with such proposals in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u68	Mrs. Tetjana, with your permission, I'm going to ask you whether the suggestions that Svetlana Vojciekhovska made under the transcript are compromised and what you just said. Is it accepted? Roger that. One more minute, please, Wojciekhovska Svetlana for the final offer. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, I fully support Mrs. Tetian, and for the second reading we agree, but what I read under the transcript, it matches and is part of her bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the Radical Party. Mr. Lajsko Oleg Valeriovich, please, our colleague and your party member, Oksana Korczynska, is one of the best volunteers, she's taking care of the patients, please vote for this bill. Support her and us, come back, no one will take your rostrum, I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we had an important discussion. Thank you. There's a remote, really, on the stand. Dear colleagues, we have had an important discussion, two drafts, but the authors have been able to find understanding, and this understanding they have made in their performances under the transcript -- and Wojciekhovska Svetlana Mikhaylovna, and Ostrkova Tetjana Georgievna. And actually, with those suggestions, I'm going to propose to put the vote to the first reading. And the collective, I'm sure, by the second reading, will be able to work it out and we'll be able to work it out. And so, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the creation of favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable text messages) 2297, as amended by the transcript of the National Deputy of Ukraine Vojciekhovska Svetlana Mikhaylovna, and as amended by the transcript of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ostrkova Tetjana Georgievna, as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 2297 on the basis, vote, colleagues, vote, colleagues. [[11:47:28]] For 252 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors, all your colleagues for your position of responsibility. Tell me, do I have to be shortened to a second reading? I'm proposing a shorter procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, right? It won't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Self-help, don't do that. Let's not do this completely. Guys, could I have your attention for a moment? We now have another adjacent law and we have 13 minutes until recess. We can fully accept it in a brief dynamic discussion. The next is 3,467 — the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable telecommunication messages). In fact, the extension of this law. We can do the same quickly and effectively. Dear colleagues, let's use our 13 minutes as effectively as possible. And I'm voting on the motion for a hearing of 3467 on a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, vote, summary procedure, 3467, please. [[11:48:52]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vojciekhovsk Svetlana Mikhailnov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this is a derivative bill from the previous one we adopted. And the purpose of the bill is to release charitable telecommunication messages from taxation, which will ensure that the total amount claimed by the subscriber is converted into charity, which will free 20 percent of the VAT. The rules in force of the Tax Code do not give any reason for the operators to adjust the communication of pre-accounted VAT liabilities for receipts from users, mobile subscribers, and the subscription of part of the amount of the cost that is listed for charity. It's also a bill that was developed in a package with our benefactors and mobile operators. The bill was considered by the Tax and Customs Policy Committee and was supported by a unanimous decision. Please support the bill and finally allow the fundraiser to be carried out in a transparent and modern way. Thank you, Your Honor, for your previous vote and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u72	Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on April 20, 2016, reviewed the draft law. The project changes two aspects, namely, to complete the Tax Code with a new article 197 on exemption from taxation by adding the cost of telecommunications operator operations to a charitable telecommunications message for charitable purposes, which is the first task. And the second, indeed, is to allow the adjustment of the accrued tax liabilities to the amount of VAT overpayment to the amount to be allocated in the future for charity. As we considered the matter on our committee, we did not consider that today a basic bill could only be accepted as a basis. Therefore, the recommendation, the decision, was made by the committee to adopt Bill 3467 as a basis and as a whole as a law today. But given that we are only adopting the basic law as a basis, I would like to support the proposal to adopt this law as a basis, as it will then be amended, as in the basic law, to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. So, Corchik Vitaly Andriyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u75	Please give the word to my colleague Irina Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Ephraim, the People's Front. You immediately voted in favour of Bill 2297, which exempts the congregation from state pension insurance, Law 3467 exempts VAT. They should only be voted on in the complex because these bills provide for the allocation of funds for the full purpose of charity and exclude such a shameful act as fraud. Moreover, these bills support both charities and mobile operators. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u78	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will unanimously support this bill, as supported by the Fatherland faction and the previous one. If a person has spent his money on charity, no one can make any money out of it: nor can an operator that provides a mobile connection to a text message, and also a government budget has to exempt such funds from any taxation. This is true of contributions to the Pension Fund, this is true of VAT, this is also true of other accounts. So it is certainly in this complex that the previous bill 2297, which we adopted in the first reading, along with this bill, 3467, will work and provide the main idea and the main goal that we set out when we talk about texting: so that all the funds that a person makes as a charity go directly to the recipient without any accounting and without any corruption or fraud. The Fatherland faction supports this bill, although, frankly, I would support the decision of the first committee of profile and vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. It's okay that the main bill will be voted on a little later. This will in no way affect the fact that these bills work together after the President's signature and their official publication. If the committee is ready, we can vote on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u79	If that's the case, I'm going to put this proposal to the committee for a vote. But all the factions have to be made. And I invite Duncan Alexander Ivanovich of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u80	That's a very good idea. And it certainly needs to be supported. And it's very nice to solve the operator's problems by not adding taxes to them. But I would like to draw the attention of the drafters in preparing for a second reading on such issues that the operators have the same costs and costs as the operators. That's the first one. Still, these nuances need to be worked out in the second reading. And the second. So there won't be any corruption with this charity. Why? Because, for example, if there's going to be a fund-raising fund for the parties, for the creation, it's not charity. I'm very much asking the drafters of the bill not to use a good idea in some corrupt scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Dmitry Kolesnikov of the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u82	Andrey Vladimirovich, please pass the word to Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u83	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Opposition Block faction was unable to express its position in voting for the previous bill. I would like to express a clear position in support of this legislative initiative that this legislative initiative is an apolitical one. This instrument, which will implement Ukrainian national legislation, will be used to achieve all the charitable goals that Ukrainian citizens consider necessary: Russian, Ukrainian, Tatar and so on. The objectives of the charitable organizations will also be different, both from the Armed Forces of Ukraine and from those of the uncontrolled territory, who also suffer and are deprived of this conflict in the East. As to the substance of the bill. The previous speaker from Self-Help said that the financing of parties was supposed to be, but that was not the point of the bill. The bill amends the Ukrainian Tax Code to regulate the release of charitable SMS notifications. That is to say, we are actually removing the threat previously faced by telecommunications operators who were economically unfavourable to provide these services because they were obliged to pay the value added tax tax on the budget, that is, the threat being lifted. The second threat of financing, as the drafter of the bill said, was a party. He may not have been very familiar with the bill, first, that the objectives of charity do not change in the bill. Charity messages are part of charity, and the aim is to meet the various needs of Ukrainian citizens for the relevant ones. These are socio-economic needs, spiritual, cultural needs and so on. I therefore ask all representatives of the MPs, regardless of their political convictions, to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's 11:58. I'm reminding you that at 12 o'clock, there's going to be a general Ukrainian silence, and the TVs and radio stations are going to transmit a special signal. That's why I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] You then. Well, then, colleagues. Then we'll do it. Yes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I think it's going to be the same as the first law. I think there's going to be a common common position of the entire hall. Can I put it on the ground as a whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, just on the ground. Okay. Just on the ground. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the introduction of charitable telecommunication messages) (number 3467) on the ground. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[11:59:21]] For 230 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, I now welcome all the drafters of the bill. I also welcome the committees. And, colleagues, now a minute of silence, we remain in the hall. I ask all of us, together with our Crimean Tatar brothers, to honor the memory of the victims of Stalin’s deportation, and I ask the Hall of the Supreme Council to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will return Crimea, we will liberate all our lands, I am sure of that. Glory to Ukraine. [[Applause]] The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 12.35 we'll continue our work. Break, break, yeah. At 12.35, everyone please be in the hall. Now we're taking a 35-minute break, at 12.35, we're going to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and get ready for work. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. We are not enough to make decisions. And, dear fellows, as long as the deputies come in, I will consult with you. We have the next one in the agenda for the inclusion of the day-to-day draft of the Order marking the 75th anniversary of Bogdan Stupka's birth. But obviously we don't have enough votes in the room to get us to a vote right away, colleague. Will there be no objection to us going straight to the first reading, and if there is mobilization in the hall, we will return to the decision? No one's denying it, colleagues? We have the first reading, the next chapter is 3603. And Ribak Ivan Petrovich has to report. And I will ask John Petrovich to come into the hall. Yes, and your honor's fellow MPs, please come into the hall. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the start of work. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention once again for our advice. So we agreed that we're Project 4348, which we're putting off now. The next one is 3603, but unfortunately, Ribak Ivan Petrovich is not in the interview room, and there are two bills under his authority. And then there's 3586 Mikoli Knieżicky and Singerkowski. Could we move on to his consideration, Mr. Mikolo Knieżicki? Please tell me, could you? Dear colleagues, in view of the lack of a report on previous draft Laws, there is a proposal to move on to the consideration of draft Law 3586. And when the authors come along. Victor Pinzenik, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u87	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, your honor, we will never have to go to the Hall if we change the order of the hearing. The MP knows you can't come to the hall, but the Chief of the Supreme Council will postpone the hearing, postpone the vote. We've determined order, there's order given to the deputies, let's keep it. There's no reporter in the hall, well, why go to the Supreme Council Hall if any questions can be asked? If we do not adhere to existing standards, we will never be in order, and no changes to the Rules will change anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u88	Mr. Victor, I've just consulted with Oksana, and she confirms that when there's no reporter in the room. There is, isn't there? Everything, everything, there's a reporter, okay, there's a reporter in the room. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on integrated approaches to water resources management under the basin principle (3603). I'll make a proposal for a reduced procedure. There is a proposal from the head of the subcommittee to consider the bill in short notice. And whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[12:48:33]] For 106 The hall requires consideration of the complete procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated management of water resources under the 3603, submitted by Ukraine's national deputies Djublik, Rybak, Moskalenko, Sazk, Valentirov, Nedava. The bill is designed to implement the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their national members on the other. The aim of the adoption of the law is to improve Ukraine's legislation with a view to introducing integrated approaches to water resources management and adapting water legislation to European Union legislation. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Water Code, Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's Fisheries Act, industrial fishing and the protection of water resources. The project is implemented by hydrographic and water management areas in Ukraine, river basin management plans, and a strategic plan for integrated water resources management within the river basin in terms of flood risk management, etc. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues noted that the bill would have an impact on the budget, and if adopted, it could take effect according to legislation. The Committee notes that the implementation of the bill will contribute to the conservation and reproduction of water resources, the introduction of integrated water resources management, the adaptation of water legislation to European Union legislation. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated management of water resources based on the pool principle (register No. 3603), to be adopted on a basis. Honorary colleagues, in particular in the Water Code, have introduced a number of basic terms that are proposed for the first time in Ukraine to enter into the relevant code. In particular, the basin principle is a complex integrated management of water resources within the river basin area. The surface water is a surface water object or part of it. Subterranean water masses are an underground water object or part thereof. Water management is part of a river basin for which a water - management balance is developed and limits are set for the extraction of water from the water object and other options for the use of water. Water districting is the distribution of hydrographic units into water-based water-based areas. Water balance. Environmental spending is the minimum calculated cost of water. falls from the reservoir to the river, according to the water management and ecological requirements set up for these reservoirs. It is also included in article 13 of the Water Code of Ukraine for hydrographic and water - management areas in Ukraine, and it is clearly defined that hydrographic units are the areas of river basins. In Ukraine, nine river basins are established, namely, the Dniepra area, the Dniestr district, the Danube basin area, the northern Bug area, the Dona basin area, the Wisla area, the Crimea River area, the Primornomora River Basin area, and the Priazova River Basin area. And within the established river basin areas, the central authority of the executive authority, which ensures the formation of public policy in the field of environmental protection, management and control of water use and management and the development of water resources, which are known to include the provision of public policy in the field of protection and water production, the rational use of water resources; the development of state-owned targeted, inter-State programmes for water use and the production of water resources; the development and approval of standards and regulations; the development of standards for regulating the use and protection of water and the reproduction of water resources within its competence. New provisions are also introduced for the approval of river sub-basins and water - management areas, the approval of water - management balances, the allocation of sub-basins and water - management areas within river basin areas. Therefore, our honourable colleagues, our committee is proposing this important bill, which essentially entails the introduction of our water protection legislation, legislation on the use of water in Ukraine's territory to European standards. Therefore, the Committee on Environmental Policy proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of integrated water resources management approaches based on the pool principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a section of questions to the rapporteur. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Please, Kugel. No, I'm sorry, the first one is the solo Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u91	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency. Dear reporter, I'm asking you a question, a thing that you also know very well, and the problem that today is acutely in mountain settlements, especially the construction of so-called mini-Gess. Because this situation, which began in 2008, poses a serious threat to recreation and tourism at mountain resorts. So I have a question for you: is it a bill that provides for the proper introduction of terms that regulate this process and prohibit the setting up of mini-Gess, which harms the environment in Ukrainian Carpathian territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Jury, this bill does not contain such standards, as these are provided for in the Strategic Environmental Assessment Bill and in the bill before the Supreme Council has already been registered long enough and has been sent to the committee for further work in the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act. There are clear rules and public discussions in line with the rules of the Aarhus Convention, clearly stated standards that permit local self - government, and in making master plans for the construction of the territory, it is precisely the plans for the GES and all of them. mini-Ges, and that's where all the restrictions are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Jedakov Jaroslav Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u95	Please pass the word to a colleague of Meparishvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u96	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! To date, Dnieper and all the rivers are in a weary state. In fact, many people, even our water bodies, are trying to sleep and build houses on water pipes. Well, to date, the law that we are discussing today really needs to be supported and thought: Without water, life today is impossible, dear colleagues, to appreciate what we have. And I ask all of you to support this law and really think about our future. Environmental and water resources as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u97	Thank you. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, final question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u98	Dear reporter, it's a pleasure that the Supreme Council is finally looking at system-wide environmental legislation, and we've been waiting for this holiday for a long time. And tomorrow, in particular, we're going to have a very important bill on environmental assessment. Can you please tell me how this bill will affect the drinking species, the sewage? Is it just about the rivers and lakes of ours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to balance water use in general by the pool principle. What does that mean? For example, we take the Dniester River Basin. What is happening today with the special use of water is essentially unacceptable in today's conditions, because there were a lot of questions in this room before this bill was discussed that we should take a decentralization course, and we are creating some water management centres based on the pool principle. Here's the answer to that question, and it's in this bill itself. The point is that if there are certain discounts in certain areas above the Dniester stream and the concessions for these damages will give the management of the ecological area that is upstream, in fact those who are downstream will not know what their neighbours, their colleagues from the districts are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u100	Please, 30 more seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u101	So it's this centralized pool management that's going to contribute to a balanced use. ensure balanced use of water resources in appropriate regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now you've come out of the factions for three minutes, and I'm asking the factions to participate in the discussion, to sign up. I'm asking you to do the recording. Please, colleagues. From Petar Poshenka's Block, Dombrowski Alexander Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, Alexander Dombrowski, 11th constituency, Winnitsa Dear colleagues, I would like to support and vote for this law in the first reading. At least, from my point of view, there are three principles of position and arguments why this should be done. First of all, we need to be clear about the change in structure, the deep water supply structure in Ukraine. And the question isn't just that we've been running out of water in wells today, the question is that we've been running out of water in whole areas, regions that we've been using for decades and decades, and without the optimal integrated approach to managing this problem, it's impossible to move forward and develop the whole economy, including. The second argument. Here I have just had a little debate with National Deputy Yuri Solovia, but I would like to remind you that water is one of the sources in the generation of clean, environmentally friendly green energy, and especially in the large GES, which allows us to regulate power in the daytime and nighttime regimes. So this is a question that also needs a very serious balanced approach. And the third position. We need to realize that the problem of drinking water is a strategic problem and a challenge that lies not only before our generation but also before future generations. So the faster we start to understand and manage, and to create state institutions and tools to solve these problems, the easier it will be for us to solve this problem in the future. So I would like to support this bill as a whole, based on the first reading, there are a number of key positions between the first and the second readings that we need to discuss, debate and then vote in general Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Dziblik Pavel Volodymyrovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. If you talk briefly about this bill, what it predicts. Today, water management, yes, if there is a river that flows through several territorial administrative units, each territorial administrative unit issues water collection and water use permits on its own. We're going to move away from the territorial administration of the rivers and move on to the pool principle. So if there is, for example, a river of the West, yes, which has recently been polluted in the Žitomir region, there's a full plan for using these resources that are there. And then we don't have the question that the hops are contaminating and. and reap the flesh directly in the Gitomir region. So I wanted to ask all of us to concentrate and vote for this project because it really is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Did all the factions who wanted to speak come forward? Peter Dustenka's Block was on. It's coming from the deputies, you're going to fall. The factions are done, aren't they? Dear colleagues, the next chapter is the speeches by the national MPs. I ask everyone who wants to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record the performances of the national MPs, please. Rosenblatt Borislav, Petra Dustenka Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u107	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. A very good bill and a very responsible one today. Why? Because it has really just been said that the pollution of the rivers we have today in Ukraine is gaining such a threatening state. By the way, in Žitomirščina, the River Svet, the total water supply cut off for the four districts of the Žitomir district. To find out who's responsible, the prosecutor's office is coming, the law enforcement authorities are coming, but we can't find the extremes, because some say it came from the Hmělnica, some say it came from Žitomyrščina, and that's how impunity happens today. I want to assure you that today, if there's one single structure that will be responsible for the pool of one river or another, it will bear full responsibility. And in this way it will not only answer, but it will also have an impact on those who today do not have the potential for life. I want to remind everyone that if we forget that life began today from the earth and from the water, people’s health today is also affected by water as a major factor. And if we do everything today to fill our rivers not only with water, fish and all the other vital things, but first of all I want to fill them with responsibility. And once again, I want to emphasize. It's a very good bill. And I ask everyone to support the deputies, because it is we who are fighting for the lives of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! A well - known organization such as the United Nations has done research on the horrors that are the greatest risks in the decades to come. And they said, the scariest thing about planet Earth is lack of food, and the second is lack of water. Our country has very serious possibilities, pools of water, drinking water that we simply don't appreciate, that is, we do, but we don't have assessment and conservation. If you look at our famous river, like Dnieper, on others, Dniester and so forth, in 20 years of independence, we've practically put in no amount of money to save and run, to clean and so forth. And so, I think this is a strategically important task, and the state has to have a serious responsibility and invest money in preserving drinking water. And who. This is our responsibility to future generations. And that's why the Fatherland faction will support this bill, and we think it should be the strategic task of any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Janite Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u113	Dear friends! The main problem with water is the problem of the lives of our people and of all mankind. Catastrophe decline in clean fresh water itself is not such a question of our future if we do not change our attitude toward ecology, our attitude toward nature. And our main problems are, like mankind's problems, this is a catastrophic shortage of clean and fresh water, this is a violation of the ecology of water resources, this is, first of all, an increase in the incidence of extraordinary natural disasters associated with floods and droughts. All of this has become possible in Ukraine as a result of the fact that a number of national structures of ecological, water and other regions have not cooperated with one another around one powerful water or a pool that feeds this very water. Thus, when the forests were cut down in Carpathians, it was likely that the lower pool of Dniester was flooded because it was not restrained by the Carpathians, who were naked. So in Ternopilska, in the southern regions of Hmelničina and in the lower regions of Ivano-Francchi, there was a flood. This bill will allow for the integration into deep cooperation structures of government bodies of water resources, which enable them to cooperate with each other in the queen of environmental security and in the supervision of one large water supply system that feeds one powerful water supply – whether it's the river Dniester, Dniper or others. And it is this integrated cooperation that will make it possible to make the most of the use of water resources, to make the most of the budget for conservation measures, and to ensure that environmental legislation is monitored as efficiently as possible. I ask the MPs to support this very important bill, because it is the red thread of the future to ensure the clean water of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u114	Jurik Taras Zinovovich
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Ribaku John.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, there is probably no need to stress the importance of the bill, but unfortunately, there are very few people in the room today. So, Andry Volodymyrovich, we've been going for a long time to get this bill into the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament for the session. So let's put it to a rating vote. And notice, everyone, from the author's team, Oleg Valeriovich, the reverend Oleg Valeriovich, the request, the river Desna enters the river Dnipro, flows through the region of Chernigiv, there are also many problems with water resources in the territory of Chernigiv. Support this important bill, including for residents of the Chernigiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u117	Ivan Petrovich, I understand the situation in which there is a bill, but also there from your faction Victor Pinzenik has made a very harsh emphasis on what we should do under the Rules. And I have a request for you, Ivan Petrovich, to all the supporters of this bill, that we now have time to discuss. Are you listening to me or not, Mr. Ivan, am I addressing you? Can you listen to the Head of the Supreme Council? Very well, thank you very much. So you have a time, a minute, probably 15 minutes to maximize the mobilization of everyone you can get into the hall and vote. And that'll be the best answer, and the best thing for that bill is your action for its adoption. Thank you. Now, Yuri Soloway, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u118	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Suminity, and Atonement. Respectful colleagues have apparently shown that the existing water management system, which is built on a territorial principle, has been ineffective. I think every day each of us are witnessing such inefficiency, starting with poaching on rivers, ending with illegal choice of shooting, gravel. And I think everyone remembers 2008 and the flood that took place in 2008 is the result that the state did not give due attention to the state and the water system. Moreover, I want to say that the state of the situation and today the problems that have arisen as a result of the flood of 2008 are not solved in any way, and the state is avoiding solving these issues. Not so much is needed to restore those bridge crossings, but unfortunately the state is avoiding the solution. I hope that this bill will be the first step that will actually draw attention to the inefficient use of water resources and at least become the first step in making order in the use of water resources. So I call on all the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u119	Marcenko gives the word to Andrew Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u120	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectful colleagues certainly need to rationalize our attitude and our policy on water resources in Ukraine. This is a key issue of survival, because we understand that water is life. But, society, I would like in this context, too, I would like to be listened to by both the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leadership of the profiling committee, which is a very important question. More than a year ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in its first reading for Bill 1107, to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to water objects of general use. It's very relevant, because we see now that literally every waterhole that's near the big city, and not only in cities, it's in villages, and villages -- wherever it is, it's overcrowded, they don't let people pass, they don't let people swim in the river, they don't let people relax on the beach, they don't let them fish, they don't even let the boat swim with the water. So it's illegal things that are totally raiding, that are disrespectful to people, when people are not allowed to use the water resources of our nation, even though it is, according to the Constitution, our common acquisition, of the entire Ukrainian people. Continued conflicts in this regard sometimes lead to tragedies, shootings, and we must put an end to it. We have to open up access to our citizens, to our water objects, to rivers, to the lemons, to the lakes, to the seas, so that all citizens can use it. Such a bill, which we have drafted, is a free bill, was adopted in the first reading. Moreover, the committee of profile immediately decided, literally after that, to adopt the bill in a second reading, to recommend to the Supreme Council. More than a year later, this bill is not presented for consideration by the Supreme Council in a second reading. I'm asking and I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and I'm going to go to the head of the profile committee, and let's do it, and the first reading was everybody said it was a good bill, and we should finally give this justice to people, and we need to implement the Constitution and give people the opportunity to use the shores of our water objects -- our rivers, our seas and lakes. Now it's something that's blocked in the Supreme Council. I urge you to do it. Believe me, people will be grateful. Because we're going to go even near Kiev in either direction, or up the Dniper, or down the Dniper, and we're going to see that it's just 50 kilometers near Kiev that we can't just go to the shore. It's all fenced up, it's overworked, there's armed security, no one's getting on the beach, and so on. This has to be completed, this is our joint acquisition. And the Supreme Council has to do this: give the banks of our rivers to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Osuhovsky gives the floor, and I give the floor to Sergey Volodymyrovich Chlany. Please turn on the microphone. Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u122	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, today in Parliament is one of the most important reform laws. We say a lot about reforms in our country. There are two major problems in our country: one is corruption, the other is governance. Today's law allows for a change in the fundamental governance system, the post-Radians Communist governance system, which was governed by a purely administrative and territorial principle. Today we are changing it into a progressive pool principle, because it is the pool principle that allows water to be effectively managed, it allows us to look carefully at the balance of water in one river or another, it enables us to prevent sinking and drying rivers, it enables us to manage effectively. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize, I ask you to support this important reform bill in the first reading. If there are questions that arise, we will all work together on the second reading, but this is one of the most important reform laws. So I ask your support, please mobilize and vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, two more speeches: And Kishkar, after that, will make a decision. I very much ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to report to the faction heads and factions to report to the factions in 5-6 minutes so that we can get to the highest level of mobilization and be able and ready to make decisions. In five or six minutes, please mobilize the MPs as much as possible. And I give the floor to the Odin of Ostap. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Head. In particular, I would like to thank you personally for the fact that there has finally been a systemic Euro-Integration Bill in Parliament, which deals directly with environmental issues. I also want to point out that there is a European integration and an environment in Parliament today. The introduction of this bill, the work on this bill, is also evidence that the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Environment, has a European integration. And I would like to personally thank Mrs. Hanni Vronska, Deputy Minister of European Integration, for her brief work on this bill and on other bills, which is also a strategic environmental assessment, and an environmental impact assessment that we will consider tomorrow, in particular. I also want to say that few people think about the fact that the sewage that we pour into the rivers actually enters the water pools. And more than 80 percent, if not 90 percent, of cleaning facilities in Ukraine in cities, have been completely destroyed. So a comprehensive approach, an integrated approach to water resources, thanks, in particular, to this law, we will be able to influence this situation in a comprehensive and systematic way. That's why I'm calling again, and I'm addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, and many other deputies: I'm asking Parliament to mobilize. Today, Thursday, not Friday, is not Wednesday. Oh, this is Wednesday, sorry, Thursday tomorrow. And please, at last, the first environmental bill has gone to Parliament, and I ask him to support all the factions of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u125	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Paul Kiskar. Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u126	I'd like you to pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u127	Excuse me, who? The National MP gave the floor to the deputy of Eden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, and my colleague Paul Kishkar, and I see that there is consensus in the hall. The only question is the number of national deputies. Once again, I invite all the people's deputies in the towers to come to the Supreme Council Hall and finally to support the first Systemic Environmental Bill in this convening of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your understanding, and I know how much there are MPs in this room active, active, responsible. But it is also important for us to mobilize those who are, unfortunately, also in this office who think that you can't come to work. I thank you for your calls, too, and this is our joint work and shared responsibility. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And prepare to make a decision, dear colleagues. According to the Rules, we still have to give a closing word for the reporter, and I ask you to include the microphone of Rybaku Ivan Petrovich for the closing word. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! It's a big request to support this bill, to mobilize as much as possible. We all understand the great importance of the bill. All the factions and groups that are now represented in Parliament are present and discussed. everywhere there is an understanding of the need to support this bill. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to vote for the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm going to run a rating vote on the room's mobilisation resource. Not according to the law, but in general, if we're able to make any decisions in the room. I ask all my colleagues to come into the hall and take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Can we vote? Colleagues, everyone in the hall? So I'm asking you to take part in the rating vote so we can figure out if there's enough people in the room to make decisions. Please participate in the rating vote. Please vote. [[13:25:48]] For-173 173 deputies, there are no votes to make decisions. And I'm paying attention to all factions, please include the factions, please. "Peter Prashenko's Block" – 84, "The People's Front" – 41, "The Opposition Block" – 1, "The Self-Help" – 15, "The Radical Party – 1, "The Fatherland" – 8, "The Rebirth Party" – 2 and "The Will of the People" – 3. With this approach, we will not be able to make decisions; it is an unacceptable approach to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I declare a closed morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow I ask everyone to be in the session room at 10 o'clock. And tomorrow is going to be a beautiful day, and I'm asking everyone for maximum mobilization, and today -- active fruitful committee work. Thank you. Fruitful committee work.
