ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! First plenary meeting this year, happy to welcome you! I believe that every national MP in the room is set to work. We have a lot of questions that we need to settle with you. I think there's no secret to anyone that people expect from the Supreme Council a clear set of work, pragmatic approaches and effective decisions. So I call on everyone to work, to unity, without even looking at who has political positions. Dear fellow national MPs! Please take your seats in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for registration. Please. Please, Your Honor, we are preparing to register. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. [[10:02:40]] Accordingly, 313 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Today we celebrate our birthdays, our colleagues, Mikhailo Dobkin and Sergey Melniczuk. Let's welcome them. Good health, happy birthday! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups of parliament on Tuesday. Please prepare for registration. Writing to the performance. Please sign up for the factions and groups. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! The success of Ukrainian reforms is possible only through unification, coalition mobilization, rejection of populism, and the transition to specifics. The People's Front faction will initiate signing an appendix to the European Ukraine Coalition Agreement. We plan to work in it, and that's our plan of action. But we need to specify what we have to do in 2016, what reforms to implement, and for the entire coalition together, to be jointly responsible for making these decisions. It cannot be repeated when a coalition government elected by the coalition is putting bills to the vote and only 30 percent of them are voted on. In the leading countries where such important reforms have taken place, 90 percent of the coalition government bills are supported by coalitions. So we need to support our coalition government. And once again, I want to remind you that all the members of the coalition have delegated their representatives there. By the way, it's about updating the composition of the coalition government. As early as the fall of the year, the Prime Minister sent a letter to all the heads of the coalition regarding proposals for vacant positions in the government. Yes, as a result of our activities, we need to release the openly weak ministers and replace them. So I'm going to go to all the factions that go into the coalition: make your proposals, we'll discuss them, and we'll make decisions about the renewal of the government. The adoption of the Constitution in a general Ukrainian referendum, and in fact the signing of a new social treaty, is a separate task. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Constitution is to be adopted by all Ukrainians together. A constitutional commission will be set up to draft the Basic Law in Parliament with the participation of all parliamentary factions, leading experts and representatives of society. Taking into account the proposals made by the public, amendments to the current Referendum Act will have to be approved and organized for the final adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine. Only Ukrainians have the right to decide what powers to give to basic authorities, how to deal with corrupt judges, to go to NATO, and how to go to NATO, and to the EU. As long as the process of drafting and adopting the new Constitution is ongoing, it is clear that some changes are needed by a valid Constitution, including the successful conclusion of the Donbas negotiation process. However, these changes to the Constitution are only possible as the final point of the negotiation process, when the Russian aggressor ceases hostilities, he will withdraw his troops from Ukraine and Ukraine will regain control over the border of Ukraine. Only in this case will a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in part of decentralization be submitted for consideration in the second reading. I would like to highlight another important point: we cannot move forward in the direction of reforms without the immediate implementation of systemic judicial reform. Corrupt courts are a major obstacle to law enforcement, property protection, and investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u4	The People's Front faction has drafted a bill amending the Constitution in part of the judiciary. His main idea is to replace all the judges of Ukraine and to simplify the system of judicial action. We're for updating the entire judicial corps. This means that, along with changes to the Constitution, a new Law on the judiciary should be adopted with clear changes, criteria, re-establishment, sets of new judges, and thus an update of the entire composition of judges. There must also be a right in Parliament to express the distrust of Henprocuror. So, in conjunction with the President and the factions, we need to introduce laws on constitutional change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, a new year is beginning for Ukraine, a new year for Ukraine's economy, and we would have to draw conclusions from what happened last year to avoid making mistakes for this year. If you look briefly, over the past year, the predominant coalition in parliament, unfortunately, has simply turned into an addition to the government, into an addition to the President's Administration, and turned Parliament into a buttonbox that actually executes orders, and it is a free, illiterate order in the economic policy of the government and the economic policy of today's current government. We saw 500 billion loans last year, no one knows where they went. We've seen absolutely irresponsible fiscal policies. We have seen gaps in reform and, including key to investment climate, such as tax reform, fiscal reform, decentralization reform. In fact, we have seen the irresponsibility and inaction of the active power in terms both of Ukrainian citizens and of social policy and of business, industry, investment policy, investment and Western partners. We've seen the absolute illiteracy of economic policy making. So the Rebirth Party has been talking for six months about what needs to be a clear plan of action to get the economy out of crisis by creating social guarantees for the population. We demand a report from the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Finance, the Head of the National Bank, what is happening to the budget today? How many loans do you plan to get for this year, and what are they going to be spent on? We want and expect the government of the new economic policy. Give us a clear plan of action for these, at least six months, what you're planning to take to the Supreme Council Hall. How you plan to shape economic policy. What you're planning to do to stimulate and provide opportunities to restore production, to restore industrial enterprises, to create new jobs. What sectors of the economy are you planning to make a priority in order for the economy to start working and making money. You've essentially turned the whole country into hostages to your economic experiments today. We need to listen to the Minister of Economy and hear a clear plan of action for these six months: what we expect with exchange rates; what we expect with imports, with exports; what new markets we have to open for Ukraine; what will be the support of infrastructure projects, industry; what will be the support for creating new, substantial jobs: either this is the aviation sector, or this is atomic energy, or this is some other area of economics that is going to become a locomotive for this year and give a breakthrough to Ukraine's economy. Unfortunately, we see a completely irresponsible policy and we see that today the order of the day Parliament is becoming a mere banal waste of time. 100 questions a day, there's nothing to fundamentally change the situation in the country. Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u7	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u8	So the Rebirth Party requires, let's stop this mess that the country is turning into today, thanks to the actions of a well-constructed coalition and government. Get the Minister of Economics over here, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u9	Please, Jaroslav Mikolaiovich Moskalenko, the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Head, fellow MPs! There's truth -- you want to blame the state, destroy education, but we see the Ukrainian government doesn't take this axiom into account. At the point of extinction, the entire system of vocational education is closed, rural schools are shut down, the free feeding of younger classes is canceled, and most schools are left without textbooks. PTUs funded by state - budget subsidies were transferred this year to finance local budgets. In fact, the destruction of trade and technology in Ukraine, the cost of their proper funding in local budgets, is not enough. For example, there are such district centers whose budget is smaller than that of maintaining one PTU. So fiscal decentralization is good, but for now we have to realize that without subsidies from the state budget, vocational education just won't survive. We have to take into account that vocational and technical education is the training of specialists in work that countries need very much, that even countries in Europe lack, and that we are destroying them ourselves. Building, working on production in the APC will be no one. And PTU is primarily children from socially-unprotected populations. The majority of the MPs supported the budget for 2016, provided that most of the articles on education, medicine, social protection would be corrected. Parliamentarians have succeeded in correcting the situation in many articles, but we need to pay urgent attention to education, because the scale of the problem is impressive. For example, the government has decided not to finance small schools from the government’s government budget, that is, hundreds of schools in the fields are closing down, and education will become even more inaccessible to the village. The problem with school textbooks is fatal. As of September 1, 2015, 4-7 classes were not printed, so the students had to use printing and Xercopia. By the next school year, the textbooks of the 8th to 9th classes are to be printed, or this year's situation will be repeated. What quality of education can we talk about if children do not have textbooks, as in the middle of the last century, and the steps taken by certain government officials from education cannot be called a crime against our future country. In the education sector, we see that this is just the tip of an iceberg called an incompetent government. So yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I expressed the consolidated position of "The Will of the People" and today I repeat it again from this rostrum, the Supreme Council is to focus on the staffing issues of the government. We turn to the coalition: end political intrigues and form a government of professionals, not kamikaze. We do. We can't do better, let's do worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u11	Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In recent times, we have seen the active diplomatic activities of Ukraine's international partners, who have participated in signing the Minsk Treaties. This gives optimism to seek compromise and to put an end to the conflict. Parliament must not stand apart from these processes and adopt appropriate laws to support people's aspirations for peace. But once again, there is nothing in the agenda to put the Minsk Accords into effect. The Opposition Block faction did not vote in favour of the government budget for 2016, and time showed that we were right. Not a month has passed, as the national currency is falling again, and this overturns all of the budget forecasts for this year. A clear reflection of this is the protest actions of farmers and miners. So considering that all international experts expect inflation to be 28 percent, the budget's income is increasing by 84 billion dollars. We believe that these costs should be aimed at population income indexing, primarily, pensions and budget salaries. We believe that the people of Ukraine have not heard what the Prime Minister and his team did last year. The Kabin has not responded, and continues to fight the real sector of the economy. The economic potential of the country is being destroyed, and all the government's actions are nothing more than the work of an extermination commission from closing down factories and mines. There is an additional tax burden on production. You might think that the government's actions to destroy the heavy industry are driven by the desire to build an agrarian country. But no. The agricultural sector, considered an export locomotive, has a new tax code on its knees. Tens of thousands of people may be unemployed this year. We believe that the budget accepted is nothing more than a practical tool for robbing citizens by increasing taxes, tariffs and maximum social pay cuts. We have made a change to the destructive budget and the Tax Code and have registered the relevant bills, insisting on their first review. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u13	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u14	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I will begin with a very simple and pragmatic one. If anyone in Ukraine is bitten by a mad cat or a mad dog - the village and the city are collecting money, they are going to Hungary, Romania or Poland to buy an enemy vaccine. State, you and I don't provide basic security for citizens of the country. The budgets of district hospitals, villages, are calculated at 7, 8, 9 months ’ wages. You and I don't provide basic human security. The tariffs for the nightlight of cities and villages are increasing, meaning that villages will turn out the light and the villages will be in the dark. We do not provide with you the basic security needs of the people in this country. Gas calories in December, according to official statistics, were the lowest in the past year. What does that mean? That tens or hundreds of cubic meters of gas are additionally used to heat houses. We don't provide basic human needs -- survival in this country. Subsidies of the State budget for reimbursement of expenses are not reimbursed to service providers. This means that they will close their activities in a month. We do not provide a basic need for environmental security. The government had unprecedented confidence during the past year. This unprecedented trust ended with an unprecedentedly opaque and corrupt budget that we have with you today. So the position of the Self-Help faction is clear: you and I, as a democratic coalition, have to take responsibility and assemble and decide to resign Kabmin and create a new Kabmin in the name of Ukraine's development, not in the name of inter-party struggle. There's no party membership here, there's a basic security issue here -- those that are just listed by me right now, the needs of an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. Next, dear colleagues. You and I made an unprecedented decision: we took sides with the people in Bloody Rose, allowing them only to show up. Today we have to support this decision, even though it's actually a "mouse in the bag," but we have to show how a coalition of democratic forces is higher than party interests, that we're going to raise people's trust by standing on their side, whether we want it or not. We invite you to this difficult coalition work. And today we are initiating a public meeting of the Coalition Council to discuss those complex issues with the highest officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u15	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u16	the highest officials, the leadership of the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! Finally, after a month of work in the Canary, Bahamas, and Maldives, overseas foreign districts, Ukrainian national deputies returned to the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. The people looked forward to seeing you, the Darmoids! Because while most of you were resting, people don't know how to make ends meet, they don't know how to pay for a utility station, the gas that Mr. Berezuk was right about, the calories that you don't cook on that gas in the south, I don't know how many people have to pay for it. So the country needs radical changes, radical changes, enough laughing, enough wasting time, enough pretending to imitate reforms. Where are the reforms? They're gone. Well, thank God, thanks to the position of three factions: The Radical Party, Self-Help, Fatherland, have rejected the stealing intentions of the authorities to bring about changes to the Constitution on the special status of Donbas. So once again, the cat in the bag is making changes to the Constitution about justice, telling us that they want to reform the courts. There is no reform of the courts, there is a preservation of corruption, there is a conservation of abuses, there is an attempt by the authorities to continue to govern, to subordinate themselves to the judicial system and to continue to govern it, as Janukovic ruled by the judges. So, in large numbers, we want to carry out the same reform of the courts as Shockin did the reform of the prosecutor's office, 160 new prosecutors have been appointed, and all the new, same prosecutors, no outsider. How can old corruptionist Shockin, who was building a corrupt system of the prosecutor's office, reform it? How can judges who for the rest of their lives have bribed and abused people, how can they become new and stop taking bribes? No way, so we're going to help them become new. Along with my colleagues from the People's Front, we prepared a draft amendment to the Constitution in part of the judiciary. We propose to release everyone to one judge and prosecutor, and we propose that we leave Parliament's right to express trust, not trust with the Attorney General, we propose a radical fight against corruption and abuse in the judicial system. Because there will be no honesty and justice in Ukraine unless we have honest, unfair and just courts. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues from all the factions to support an alternative presidential draft change to the Constitution and to really reform the judiciary by releasing everyone to the same judge and prosecutor!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u19	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I just want to point out that Oleg Romanovich Barezyuk, who represents Self-Help, was speaking to me in front of me, and in general, professionally, clearly, he made clear the huge problems that people are living with today. I've been watching the hall, no attention. In fact, there are many things, and many of the news that needs to be exchanged in the hall has also been given by the leader of the Radical Party. Dear friends! I want to tell you that unfortunately, after the next revolution, Parliament, the government, the President's Administration, the authorities and people live again in different worlds, in different systems of life. And unfortunately, there is little interest in this Parliament. What was proved by the President's Administration and what was proved by the government, the buttons were served and placed a dot on it. But at the same time, agrarians block routes, teachers, educators, doctors today have a salary of only 6-7 months in this budget. Small businesses are generally on the verge of survival. I'm not saying that people are three times less able to buy and spend on their lives. The country’s management system is practically destroyed. A beautiful, successful, strong country, that's when it's professionally, intellectually and honestly managed. Today, this system of governance is destroyed, destroyed. And the budget, which is a concentrated state policy, was this testimony. The Constitution and the changes to the Constitution, which are the spirit, the power of the nation, are today transformed into the service of culinary arrangements between Ukrainian officials and Russian officials. And today, changes to the Constitution, with a good word for decentralization, are essentially serving the property of Ukraine, destroying its sovereignty, and virtually disintegrating its territory. And this is all presented as a great acquisition for the state. The reform of the judiciary is similar to that of the President in the administration of the courts. When will this end? You have to put a dot on that. And that's why we support the initiative of all coalition deputies that require once from the formation of the coalition, at least once, to gather the general coalitions. You're not puppets! You don't serve anyone's interests or lobbyist plans! Gather together at least once to discuss whether a worthy government is working in its posts, whether the right strategy is chosen for the state, whether it needs adjustment, or at least execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u22	I'm asking you to take away the distraction and indifference. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council, as, by the way, including the coalition vote, to gather the general coalitions of all deputies and to put into order the day-to-day issue of the loss of government and the return to government of experts who are able to run the country. And finally, let's put it in order instead of the mess you've set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u23	The magic word "decentralisation." Please, colleagues, I would like to ask you very much before commenting, please read the Constitution or the amendments to it, and then draw conclusions on decentralization. I talked about it yesterday, I'm talking about it again today. The idea of decentralization, which is in principle felt in places or started to feel in places, cannot be discredited simply by words. So please, who needs the Constitution or changes to it, I'm willing to pass it on, comment on it, and show the same thing that's written about decentralization in real European. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As we examine the overall situation in Ukraine, we must say that the country and people are being torn apart by demons of fear: fear of unemployment and beggary, fear of increasing road rage, fear of impotence of power in places and in the center. In this difficult time, responsible politicians have to do two main things: first, strengthen state institutions, and secondly, act in the direction of restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity, European integration, and promote economic growth. Everyone who does this actually saves the state and the people. Sadly, many politicians take a different path: they give regular and extra talks that only heighten people’s fears. Nothing's happening. There's just a lot of words. It's a shame that the usual band of record fighters with injustice, cattle, and other things has been joined by the management of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I personally felt that tariffs had been fixed, investments had been involved, corruption and banditry had been overcome, and one major project remained — the national referendum. More than that, it turned out to be of no interest to the government. Dear colleagues from Kabmen and here are the deputies! We need to stop translating into people what politicians they hire into the legislative and executive authorities. One who travels to Europe so often should remember that playing with the so - called popular referendum in the most difficult, critical times in society has led to the death of the Weimar Republic and the establishment of a completely totalitarian system in Germany. Where do you push these poor, destitute, desperate people?Oh, my God! Make changes to the Constitution here professionally and responsibly! Finally, hear the wisest thing said by the wise Chinese, the richest Chinese man Jack Ma. He said, "The world doesn't care what you say, the world only sees what you do." This is to the full extent relevant to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that, according to the law of 45 calendar days after the end of the year, the government is reporting to Parliament, this report was due on January 22nd. On behalf of the Petra Prashenko faction, I demand that the government execute the law, file the government's report, which is due no later than 45 days before February 5. This is where congregations and coalitions offered by Julia Volodymyrna and other colleagues are to be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u25	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u26	That is why we can adjust and set precise calendar dates for our coalition agreement and hire more effective contractors. Thank you for your attention. And I invite you to work, not imitate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u27	Dear fellow Members of the Rules, the time for statements has been completed. We are moving on to further consideration of the issues of the daily order and to your consideration of the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 December 2015 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft law of the Ukrainian Law on the conduct of the successive elections of the Crimson City Head (registration number 3613-P), prepared by National Deputy Michael Papiev. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this draft decree in a simplified procedure. Colleagues, there's a proposal to consider this motion for a summary ruling. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:26]] For 134 Dear colleagues, 134 votes are not yet enough to make such a decision. But once again, I would like to make a suggestion to consider the draft decree in short notice. Can I have your back, please? [[10:34:58]] For 172 172 – the decision has been adopted. Please welcome to Michael Mikolaiovich Papiev's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u28	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am the initiator of this draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Bill No. 3613. I will consciously not talk about the essence of this bill right now, because the main points that are before it, apart from what you all understand, are in violation of the 5 rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. It violates three standards: articles 12, 24 and 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. However, this number of violations of the procedures adopted in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not yet occurred in the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In each call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there were their downfalls and downfalls, the last call known by the adoption of January 16, the so - called dictatorial laws. If you remember, most of these laws have since been passed during the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 8 vocations, and the Supreme Council 8 vocations can only adopt democratic laws, i.e. they have lost the status of dictators and the criminal conduct that exists today in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine they apply to the procedure for consideration and the procedure for making decisions in the vote on 16 January 2014. Let's look at this law 3613. First, the order of the day came with a violation of the rules of the Rules, after which the rapporteur of the law was not the initiator of the introduction, nor was the national MP, who is the co-author. If you look at the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we actually voted for a non-existent text, a non-existent amended law. There was no decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to finalize the law, and the law was passed in general without a vote in the first reading and without taking into account the comments of the Ukrainian national deputies by what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u29	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u30	I'm not sure how much more rules are broken. That is, if you count, when you adopt this law, and it consists of several sentences, i.e. five articles of the Constitution of Ukraine were violated, three articles of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and about 26 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u31	Ten seconds, please complete the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u32	We did not vote ad hoc, we did not vote on the proposals and amendments of the Ukrainian national deputies. Therefore, I ask that you return to the legislative field and abide by the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u33	Please, the first deputy head of the Preparatory Committee for the Rules, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 26 January considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 December 2015 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft law of the Ukrainian Law on the conduct of consecutive elections of the Crimson City Head (registration 3613). Entered by Ukrainian National Deputy Michael Papiev's registration 3613-P from 25.12.2015. After considering the material presented, the transcript of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 23, 2015, the Committee concluded that during its consideration of the draft law (registration 3613) there had been a violation of the procedure for review and adoption of the law. In particular, the discussion took place without discussion, without a report from the Main Committee, and there was no separate issue of acceptance as a basis for the vote. According to part of article 114 of the Rules, at the same time, comments from the national MPs, apart from the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputy Knyazević, were not received in the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Bill. According to part eight of article 48 of the Rules, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Supreme Council Decision repealing the decision of December 23 on the adoption as a whole of the draft Law on the conduct of consecutive elections of the Crimson City Head, introduced by the National MP of Ukraine Papiev, in which it proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u35	Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Your Honor, two for, two for against, please. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u36	Please give the word of Constantine to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u37	Constantine Pavlov, Opoblok.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! It is clear to all that Act 3613 is now in direct contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, during its consideration of the bill (3613), there was a huge amount, a tremendous amount and a rule, and a Constitution of Ukraine. This is already a perfectly normal signal for both the Speaker of Parliament and the President of Ukraine to ensure that this law is not signed. The ruling that we are considering today is actually bringing Parliament back to the legal order. Because by its vote, the Supreme Council, in fact, exceeded the authority to appoint elections in the city of Krivom Roge. Of course, it is possible to commit to political blackmail and the Self-Help party and those who participate in the so-called “famine action” and put pressure on the Speaker of Parliament today. But let's see who is the basic bone of this group of people. It is impossible for people who have problems with the law, which consists of accounting in a psychological dispenser, in a drug dispenser who is deprived of parental rights and some are not at all poachers, to represent the 700th-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousth-thousth-thousth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thest-thousthest-thousth-thousthest-thousthest-thousthousthest-thousthest-threat. There are miners, metalsmiths, miners, educators, and doctors, and they have made their choice. And give them the right to decide who the mayor is in the city of Curve Horn.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u39	Please, National Deputy Ivan Vinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we certainly support free, free choice, honest, scrupulous in choosing our mayor, local self - government. At the same time, I want to point out that today we are trying to create an extremely dangerous legal precedent. The election was called off by the CBC, the election was annulled by the courts, the election was annulled by Maidan, but the first result of the citizens' will was and will or will be proposed to be annulled by the Supreme Council. I would actually like to ask a rhetorical question, why is it rhetorical -- we probably won't hear the answer to it, but I'm curious to ask the self-help factions who are today representing the lawyers of this decision: when are the next elections going to take place in Bloody Rose, on the same date as all over Ukraine, or six months later? And if not, does the Self-Help faction suggest, for example, that by making a choice on the same date, leaving the choice of a new mayor to work for six months, namely actually restrict the community, limit the local self-government to the term provided for in the Constitution? Isn't that a violation of the Constitution, according to self-help colleagues? What are we to do with this, and how does the country's higher legislative body today allow itself to intervene in actuality in what does not apply to it -- to intervene in the work of the Central Electoral Commission, to intervene in the processes envisaged by the Constitution to the local authorities of self-government? Of course, we support this idea, because it's a requirement of one of the coalition factions, we need to work and we've seen what radical actions Self-help is doing. But I do stress that this decision is in violation of the Constitution, in our opinion, and if we support it, we will support, allow the leader of our faction to be quoted with disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u41	Please, National Deputy Sobolev, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u42	Let's stop being crazy. One politician comes and says, "People are sick, people are insane, they defend their rights." Another politician comes out and says, "We're breaking the laws." Guys, let's go back to reality, this is very important for every parliament! In the city of Krivi Rig, 700,000 people, forged elections for the benefit of a member of the team Viktor Yanukovic. The president, the government, the police can't stop them and they can't stop them, they can't punish forgers, they can't stop them, they can't. Parliament, with great difficulty, with great debate, adopts the law with the help of people, according to the will of people, the law on new European term elections. When elections are falsified and it's impossible to punish forgers, the only way out is if we talk about a civilized outcome: to go to a new election and let the Bloody Horn have the mayor he chooses, no matter what political power. Now the month of Parliament Speaker is having a show called "I'm fighting for the Rules." The Speaker of Parliament did not do this when he signed the adopted blindness of the Budget Act, the country's most important budget. And now the moon is doing so that today is the last day when the Law on Extracurricular Elections in Bloody Rose may take effect. If it's not just the Speaker's signature until tonight, but the President's signature, only then, tomorrow another friend of Vilkula's, Comrade Hendowski will announce the next election in Curve Rose on March 27. Otherwise he'll say, "I can't, Wilcule's fourth-meter." I have a huge request to stop this crazy discussion, to quickly vote "no" to those people who want to admit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u43	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u44	And I have a request to the Speaker of Parliament: then together we go to the President and show that the state can protect people, not abuse them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u45	Thank you. Please. One minute, one minute, one minute. Before I say the line, look, colleagues, I want to stress one more thing. Listen very carefully. On the day of the vote, a decree was registered for this law, which directly prohibits me from signing the law. I didn't sign any laws for my entire cadence, I didn't sign any when there was a decision to cancel the vote. That's the first one. Second position. Trouble in the country, if the head of the committee that has to take care of corruption is telling the truth from the rostrum, it's a very difficult signal for me, no matter what it does. Moreover, as promised before the New Year, on the first day of Parliament's consideration of this issue, I will sign this law, as foreseen by the Constitution of Ukraine and the law. Therefore, I find it immoral to force the Chief of the Supreme Council to act as a basis for repealing the law on the election in Bloody Rose. One minute, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, just like several times, on the question of the Horn of Curve, spoke by a certain Egor Sobolev, before his first name was Zimin, his first name, his first name, and his fathership, and everything else. It's a unique character enough. You know, I've been very familiar with his biography, and there are girls on the phone, and he's an illustrator on the phone. When someone had to be illustrated in Dnepropetrovsk, he was called upon to highlight the head of the ODS area, by the way, appointed after Maidan, then the district attorney, and so on, such a moving young man. As far as I know, they are already running and trading for a single candidate, including there, in WFP, the Office of the President and so on. So they want to switch positions in Kiev, switch positions for Sobolov and so on. So once again, they, the Self-Help Party, want something to trade. Therefore, respectable colleagues, simply understand who is putting the situation in the country, who is threatening the people with grenades (we have all seen this) and what is the European Self-Help Party and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u47	Thank you. One minute on the line. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts from the point of view, we exchanged thoughts on this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, attention, now attention, colleagues, don't quarrel, please, this is just a matter of voting, calm down. Next offer. The decision that has been made prohibits the Head of the Supreme Council from signing this law until the time of its consideration. Now, if this ruling is passed by 226 votes, the results of the previous vote will be annulled and the law will be repealed. So now all those who support the next election in Bloody Rose should not support this decision. On the other hand, the opposite is true. So please, I'm betting on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Please. [[10:50:37]] For-40 The decree won 40 votes. This means that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the legal right to sign the law of Ukraine, which I will. As promised. And those who intimidated people with various fears were forced to starve, let them be ashamed when they look at themselves in the mirror. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! We have a number of issues that need to be included in the agenda. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 3334), draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine. Colleagues, we need 226 votes to put it in the order of the day session. So please. There's a proposal, there's a proposal for all the bills that are included in the section "to be included in the agenda of the day session," to vote with a package, and then we'll move on to other laws. Colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda the daily draft laws – attention! — 3334, 3394, 3512, 3097, 3323, 3150, 3150-1, 3755, 3661, 3662, 3501. These are the laws that we put into the order of the day session, and the committees continue to work on the drafting of these laws. Please support the proposal to vote in favour of the inclusion of draft laws in the agenda. Attention! Put in the order of the day laws that were in order of the day. And 3663, yes. 3661, 62 and 63. Please, Your Honor, we are voting in favour of putting into order the daily drafts of the laws that I have announced. No 3,700. 3700 is next. Stop, stop the vote. No 3,700, 3700 is the next. Please vote. 3334 and those I called laws. Include in the agenda of the day session. All of it. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[10:54:04]] For 180. This proposal does not receive the required number of votes. Please, 3334. Draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine. Colleagues, draft law on the State Flag of Ukraine, please vote. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[10:54:37]] For 236 Decision approved. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act (for the activities of the Administrative College). This is also a part of the agenda. Please vote. [[10:55:06]] For 252 The decision has been made. 3512. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws Governing State Statistical Activities. 3512. Please vote. [[10:55:33]] For 230 The decision has been made. 3097. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of calculations in the fuel and energy complex concerning the state-owned enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. Please enter into agenda 3097. Please vote. [[10:56:07]] For 238. The decision has been made. 3323. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which regulate relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (for special water use). 3323, please vote. [[10:56:42]] For 205 I didn't get the required number of votes in the bill. 3150, 3150-1. Draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to increase the social protection of family members. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. 3150, 3150-1. Vote. [[10:57:27]] For 253 The decision has been made. 3755. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (on the work of the electronic system of submission and publication of declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government). Colleagues, this is the amendment to the e-declaration, which has been made to the draft Budget Act, should now be corrected, 3755. Now it's about getting into the order of the day question. Colleagues, I very much ask you to support this 3755 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please vote everyone. Please be supportive. [[10:58:22]] For-198 Attention, colleagues! 198. Attention! This is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session, I ask you to support it. Colleagues, please. 3755. Attention, correct the error of the electronic declaration, not the error, but the correction made when voting for the budget, 3755. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support me. [[10:59:10]] For 196 By factions, please: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 69, "National Front" – 64, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 12, "Fatherhood" – 5, "Rebirth" – 1, "will of the people" – 6, "non-fractional" – 21. Colleagues, faction leaders, please. It's a day-to-day question about electronic declarations. It's a question of fighting corruption and visa-free regime, fellows! Attention! Please support, colleagues, 3755, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please support this proposal, we vote. [[11:00:35]] For 199 Attention, fellow Members, once again: Listen, we're all voting on it. Yes, I will be very persistent, but I am asking you very much. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the rules are right. Whoever doesn't have the Rules, come on, I've got the books, I'll give it to you. Thank you. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, please 3755. Please vote on the inclusion of this amendment. This law, the draft law, is in the order of the day. Vote, fellows! Please vote, inclusion in the agenda. Please support everyone, colleagues, please support us. [[11:02:10]] For 197 One more time at the factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please be included in the agenda of the day session. Ready? Vote. Please vote in favour of the inclusion of this bill in the order of the day. Ready? Let's vote, colleagues, please support. Vote, Your Honor. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:03:47]] For 205 Oh! The process's gone, it's better. Dear colleagues, we need to put in order the day-to-day issue of cancelling the amendment that ruled out electronic declarations. We have to be open, we have to be public, there's nothing so terrible about this. So I ask everyone to support this, including this issue in the agenda of the day session. Is that so difficult? Colleagues! Well, let's vote. So let's put it in the agenda and move on. Please, please, colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote again. Ready? Let's vote. [[11:05:15.]] For 206 You know, the speed of making a decision is plus one vote per minute. Okay! But we'll go back to that question. I very much ask that faction leaders explain once again in their factions what this amendment is and what it regulates. We will return to the order of the day. 3661, draft Law on the Zero Declaration. 3661, 3662 and 3663 are related three questions. Include in the agenda of the day session. Ready? Vote, please. Vote, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:06:30.]] For 219 That's better. Colleagues, once again, three bills, concentrate! — zero declaration: 3661, 3662, 3663. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Ready? Take your seats. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Vote! Please support everyone. Vote. [[11:07:14]] For 227 Three laws are included in the agenda of the day’s session. 3501. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to harmonise legislation in the field of prevention and non-discrimination with European Union law) (3501). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:07:54]] For 233 The decision has been made. What, shall we go back to fixing the declaration? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do it again. Well, I'll put them as much as, well, we need them. 3755 - inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support 3755. Ready? Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support all 3755. We support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please. [[11:08:50]] For-200 Okay. We'll go back to that question. We have two questions that are not included in the agenda, but we, I think we'll go back to that, 3323 and 3755. I ask the faction leaders to work in factions to find the required number of votes. We're not just supposed to fight corruption on TV, are we? And in what decisions, I urge everyone to do so. Openness and publicity are the best safeguards against corruption. Dear colleagues, the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, the draft law (registration number 3700) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Exclusion of Candidates to Ukrainian People's Deputies from the electoral list in the multi-mandatory district. Prepared by the national deputy Lazko. Laško, Kuprienko, Burbak, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Appropriately, the committee is invited to include it in the agenda for decision making. Please take all your seats. Ready? 3700. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Vote. Vote. [[11:10:51]] For-179 I see. I think someone from the authors' team has to report what's going on. Please, Oleg Lazko. Basically the law, please, two minutes. You'll understand what this is about. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u49	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Bill 3700, signed by the five faction leaders, provides for amendments to article 58 of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the essence of which is to grant the party the right to decide to exclude candidates from the electoral list after the election results have been announced: after the election results have been announced. When the candidate included in the electoral list does not work with the party, he left the party, betrayed the interests of the electorate, and allowed the parties that formed the list to exclude such candidates from the electoral list. It is the responsibility, the political responsibility of the political parties to the electorate. So please support this bill, include it in the agenda, vote it in general. Thank you. This is an increase in the responsibility of the parties to the electorate for their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u50	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u51	Yes, with your permission, Mr. Head asked me to make a point. Dear colleagues, the bill does not apply to the working national deputies of Ukraine. It does not apply! You can hear that each of you will be seated with a mandate for the time being. That's why this bill applies to candidates, i.e. you passed, became MPs, those candidates who are currently on the list, who are not working with the party, who are cut off from the electorate, betrayed the electorate so that the political party can call this candidate off. Why, do not sit down and work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people! Give you God’s health, work harder.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u52	One more time, huh? It's about the candidates on the election lists but they didn't go to the Council. Just to be clear. Please, there is a proposal for the inclusion of a decision in the agenda, and then, during the discussion, you will decide what decision to make and you will be able to make a statement. Please take your seats. Entry into the agenda for decision-making, 3,700. Five faction leaders signed: Yuri Lucenko, Oleg Berezuk, Julia Timoshenko, Maxim Burbak, and Oleg Lazko Please, Your Honor, we vote in favour of joining the agenda and making a decision, please vote. [[11:14:31]] For-174 174 – no decision. We have three questions that are not included in the agenda. I think that between 12 and 12.30, you're going to consult, and then we're going to go back to putting issues into the agenda. Dear colleagues! A draft Law (registration number 1793) has been introduced for your consideration "To amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Service in the Military Sector" with proposals by the President. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 15 July 2015 the Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Liability for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Procurement, Work and Service in the Military Area, under number 1793, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the following. The law that came with the signature proposed that criminal responsibility should be established for violating legislation in the field of confirmation of conformity of production, production, implementation, procurement, labour and military services. It should be noted that the law takes effect from the day of its publication. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasked within a month from the date of entry into force with this law to take steps to improve the National System of Standardization of Defence Design Products, as well as the production of goods, material and technical equipment for military formations. However, in the context of an anti-terrorist operation, it is not possible to properly verify the conformity of military products with technical regulations and standards, since there is no effective system for assessing the conformity and certification of military and special equipment. Under these circumstances, the introduction of criminal responsibility in the area in question without improving the existing system of conformity assessment and certification will complicate the procedure and increase the delivery of defence services, which in turn will have a negative impact on the state of military readiness and resilience. With a view to avoiding the latter, there is a need to complete efforts to improve the national system of standardization of products, jobs and defence services and to agree on a period of validity for the imposition of criminal responsibility for breaches of legislation in the sphere. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to establish that: first, section II, paragraph 2, of the Final Position, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers should take steps within a month to improve the national system of standardization of defence-related products, as well as the production of goods, material and technical provisions for military formations, take effect from the date of publication of the Act; b) the other part of the law takes effect one month from the date of its publication. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u54	Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u55	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Services in the Military Sector, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 July 15. The law establishes criminal responsibility for causing harm to the national security officer in Ukraine’s military sphere. It is noted that the law takes effect from the day of its publication. And the Cabinet of Ministers has been tasked with taking steps during the month to improve the national system of standardization of defence products. In agreement with the need to establish compliance for violations of legislation in this area, the President of Ukraine considers it necessary to improve the existing system of conformity assessment and certification of military and special equipment. Therefore, we propose to align the terms of validity with the rules of the law, namely that the law becomes effective one month from the date of its publication, with the exception of paragraph 2 of section "The Final Position" on the assignment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which takes effect from the date of publication of the law, which will enable the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the mandate to improve the national standardization system. The committee agreed with the President's proposals and unanimously endorsed the President's proposal and adopted the law in a new edition. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u56	Thank you, Andry Anatolyovich. Thank you. My colleagues, I think it's clear to everyone that this proposal needs to be taken into account. And so I would very much ask everyone to take their seats right now, and I will put to the vote this bill with the President's proposals, that is, the President's proposals, which the President's Representative has made, which are absolutely appropriate. And also, we've heard the position of the committee that's been working and also supporting unanimously. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is also a proposal to support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. So please, Your Honor, please take your seats and prepare to vote for the draft Law 1793 with the President's proposals, taking into account all the President's proposals. Ready to vote? Colleagues, please take their seats with the proposals of President 1793. Ready? Ready? One minute, one minute, the deputies are still in position. Please, 1793 with the President's proposals, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote with the President's proposals, please. [[11:23:19]] For 207 Dear colleagues, I see we're not there yet. Colleagues, please pay attention. Please return to question 1793 with the President's proposals. Please support everyone, colleagues. The offer of a return in 1793. Ready? Please vote for the return. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please support. [[11:24:18]] For 214 Let's do the factions. Now we're gonna lose the law, don't you understand what this is about? Next. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. It's an important law, colleagues. Ready? Please support, return. Colleagues, please, for your return to 1793. Let's vote, ready? Now. Please, 1793, let's vote. Please vote, vote in favour, please support all colleagues, national MPs. [[11:25:45.]] For 225 Attention! Return! Vote! Colleagues, please take your seats and do not leave them! I see, please, for the return of 1793, please vote. Ready? Vote. For your return, please vote. [[11:26:22]] For 227 Now, colleagues, pay attention! – we need to approve with the President's proposals so that this law can be signed and entered into force. Once again, the name of the law: the amendment to the Criminal and Procedural Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for violating legislation in the field of conformity of production, production, implementation, production, labour and military services is the fight for quality in the military sphere. And we have to realize that, colleagues, that our soldiers have to fight with a technique that is absolutely quality, and without this law, no one will be held responsible for the lack, counterfeiting and the plot. Please, colleagues, please. Ready? Please support with the President's proposal. Please vote. It's consistent with the committee's decision. Ready? Come on, fellows, let's vote. Vote, please support everyone. [[11:27:42]] For 227 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor. 2561. Ukrainian Law on Internal Affairs with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Please, Stepan Kubi. 2561.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, MPs! On July 2, 2015, Parliament passed the Law on Internal Affairs of Ukraine, number 2561, which provides for the establishment of legal and organizational principles for the activities of the central executive bodies of Ukraine in the field of internal rights. The prescribed law cannot be signed by the President, on the basis that the President of Ukraine considers that the establishment of a list of central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the Ministry of Internal Affairs through the adoption of a special law restricts the constitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, it is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that forms, reorganizes and eliminates the central authorities of the executive branch, directs and coordinates their work, determines the system of such organs and the order of coordination of their activities by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The questions about the establishment by the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the functions of coordinating and directing bodies that are legally relevant to the system of internal affairs should be addressed, not by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, through the adoption of the law, but by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the adoption of their own acts. With regard to the establishment of an internal security unit within the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, whose activities are aimed at warning, detection, cessation of criminal administrative offences in the professional activities of the staff of all internal affairs bodies, it should be noted that its purpose is contrary to the European standards of law enforcement, the principles of democratic civil control over the activities of law enforcement bodies by an open democratic method. In the light of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Law on Internal Affairs to reject as one that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine, poses threats to national security and the defence of the state, does not meet the standards of democratic civil control over the activities of the State's law enforcement agencies. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u59	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on September 2, 2015, discussed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Internal Affairs, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 2, 2015. Let me remind you, the law is foreshadowed. A single system of internal affairs of Ukraine was envisaged at the legislative level. However, the President of Ukraine believes that the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of the law, the listing of the Central Executive Authorities whose activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, through the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, limits the constitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the question of the creation, reorganization and liquidation of ministries and other central executive bodies within the limits of the funds envisaged for the maintenance of executive organs is referred to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The law also provides for the existence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a unit of internal security directly subordinated to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which, according to the President, in fact, as in its own time all members of the Committee of the Supreme Council, who have not been heard, contravene European standards of law enforcement, principles of democratic civil control over the activities of law enforcement bodies, open democratic methods, etc. Although, unfortunately, many law enforcement agencies in Ukraine today operate at the legislative level in Ukraine. the level is determined that the internal security service or services are directly subordinated to those managers who are currently headed by all law enforcement agencies, including the Ukrainian Security Service. In this connection, the President of Ukraine proposes that this law, which is not in conformity with the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine, poses threats to Ukraine’s national security and the security of the state, is not in conformity with the standards of democratic civil control over the activities of the State’s law enforcement agencies. The committee agreed with the President's proposal and endorsed the decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the President's proposal and reject Ukraine's Internal Affairs Act as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is the President's proposal: to reject the law. Committee, you've heard the committee's conclusion, position: to support the President's proposal. That means we need 226 votes for the rejection right now. But if we don't, the law will be regarded as rejected. Please, 226, there's an offer: to reject the law. Please vote. [[11:34:14]] For-166 Dear colleagues, they didn't get the required number of votes. To reject the law. Now there's a proposal to beat the President's veto. Now, if it's not overcome, it's going to mean it's rejected. Please vote. [[11:34:45]] Z-91 Veto's not overtaken. The law has been revoked. Let's move on. 1547 registration number of the draft law: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning (new edition) with proposals from the President. 1547, please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On June 2, 2015, Parliament passed the Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning, number 1547. The prescribed law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. First, the new provisions of the Defence Planning Act are outdated, are based on current legislation and do not contain in principle new approaches to the definition of tasks, principles and order of defence planning. Secondly, the law that came to the President's signature did not address the issue of disagreement between long-term, medium-term and short-term budgetary planning and the imperfect adjustment and refinement of defence planning documents that did not allow effective management of limited defence resources. Thirdly, the strategy of Ukraine's national security is being removed from the framework of long-term defence planning documents, which according to valid legislation is determined by the President of Ukraine in his message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on internal and external status. This approach runs counter to the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the President of Ukraine is the head of state, the guarantor of state sovereignty, the national security of the State and the leadership of the national security and defence of the state. In view of the foregoing, such changes are unacceptable and are not in line with the basic principles and tasks of defence planning. Fourthly, it is envisaged that the President of Ukraine will directly approve the Ukrainian Military Doctrine, the Ukrainian Strategic Military Bulletin, the National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other State-wide targeted programmes aimed at solving the defence problem will be developed and approved in accordance with the established legislation. Such positions limit the involvement of the President of Ukraine in the resolution of defence issues, such as the development of weapons, military special technology, and infrastructure. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine is proposing the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning Organizations to Reject. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky. John Winnick is from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u63	The Defence Planning Act (No. 1577). was considered by the committee and the committee unanimously supported the President's proposal to reject as one that requires thorough processing, processing and introduction as a new project. So please support the President's proposal to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. Please put to the vote draft Law 1547, with the President's proposal to reject the law, the same position and the committee of profile to support the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the law. So 226 is a deviation. If this proposal doesn't work, 300 is to overcome the veto. If not, the law will be repealed. Please vote in favour of the President's proposal. [[11:39:46]] For a hundred and And to defeat the President's veto. Please. [[11:40:08]] For 101 The required number of votes did not come in. Veto's not overtaken. The law has been revoked. Dear colleagues, 2461 is the Ukrainian Act on the totality of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine, with proposals from the President. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On 12 May 2015, Parliament passed the Ukrainian Act on the totality of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine, number 2461, which provides for the approval of the total number of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of 7 000 595 persons, of whom 6000 95 are military personnel. It should be noted that this number is increased in comparison with the number of special services assigned by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2011 and is 7 thousand,227. Reference, Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance No. 869 of 24.06.2006 on certain issues of the organization of the activities of the State Department of Communications and Information Protection with changes. The President of Ukraine believes that the approach envisaged in the law to increase the number of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, although it is part of the security and defence sector of Ukraine and aims to ensure Ukraine's national security against external and internal threats, does not suit the interests of national security in terms of: first, budget constraints, second, external aggression aimed at weakening Ukraine's economy, thirdly, the need for the State to concentrate significant financial resources to secure its security. Regarding the latest proposal, it should be noted that the State Information and Protection Service of Ukraine, although involved in an antiterrorist operation, is not a military formation that directly combats terrorism in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. In the light of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes: to determine in the law under consideration the totality of the State Security and Information Protection Service of Ukraine, based on the financial capabilities of the State and taking into account existing national security priorities. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u66	Please, the committee is Ivan Vinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, on May 12th, 15th, the Supreme Council passed a bill drawn up by the State Department to increase the number of the State Department. And he was approved accordingly by the Supreme Council. At the same time, the President made his remarks that the proposed increase could only take place if there was adequate financial capacity in the budget. Therefore, the committee, after considering the President’s proposals at its meeting, agrees with the proposals proposed. And so please support the President's proposals in relation to this bill. And then it's going to be signed as a law in general. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, in line with the President’s suggestions, are talking about reducing the number of accepted ones by 500. So these proposals improve the situation and reduce the number of employees. So there is a proposal to adopt this bill in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. All national deputies please take their seats. Please, colleagues, we take our seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, the signal vote is now to determine the number of votes available. With the President's proposals, according to the committee's decision. We need 226 votes. Ready? I mean, everyone understands what this is about? If you don't accept these proposals, you're going to have to increase the number by 500 people, you're going to have to pay them from the state budget. And if we now make decisions and support the President's proposals, then, accordingly, less than 500 people, less budget spending and the service will continue to function. Please, colleagues, 2461 with the President's proposals according to the committee's decision. Please support, this is a signal vote, colleagues, we need to determine the number of deputies. Vote please, colleagues. Ready? Let's vote, please support everyone. [[11:46:55]] For 210 Colleagues, please take your seats in factions. Please, colleagues. Again, I would like you all to listen to who didn't vote. If we take these proposals into account, we reduce the number of employees by 500, that means that the public budget for salaries and maintenance of these workers will be saved the budget, in the budget. Vote? Let's vote. Let's rediscover the signal in accordance with my proposal. Please support me, colleagues, this is a budget economy. Budget economy. Please vote, please support. Let's support it. [[11:48:14]] For 210 Just like it was. Okay, colleagues, we've discussed this. Is it possible that we need to clarify the essence of the law again? The State Security Service has an adequate number of employees, and the President has offered to reduce this number by 500. This means that the maintenance and salary will remain in the budget of these 500 people, it's a real budget economy. Did you hear that? Please, colleagues, re-vote for the proposal to reduce, the President's proposal, according to the committee's decision, to reduce by 500 people, the number. Please vote, signal. [[11:49:36]] For 212 All right, let's assume it's discussed earlier. Let's talk about the economics, there are a lot of MPs in the Paris session today. Please, Your Honor, 1865 is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance on Partial Financing of Sanatoriums of Higher Education Institutions, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On 3 November 2015, Parliament passed the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory Public Social Insurance" on partial financing of higher education institutions' sanatoriums" under the number 1865, which provides partial funding for higher education institutions' sanatoriums at the expense of Ukraine's social insurance fund. The specified law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons: first, the proposed changes extend their action only to higher education institutions, leaving the sanatorium unattended by other educational institutions, enterprises, institutions, organizations. This selective approach is not in line with article 13 of the Constitution, which establishes that all property rights are equal before the law and provides for State protection of the rights of all property and management entities. Secondly, Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory public social insurance provides for the provision of insurance funds in this case by the social insurance fund of Ukraine for material security and social services only to subjects of compulsory public social insurance in accordance with the applicable legislation of such entities are insured citizens, not institutions that provide them with services. Thirdly, according to the Ukrainian Cabinet, the implementation of the Act will require additional financial burden on the budget of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund. According to this type of insurance, the excess of the expenditure on income will amount to about 3 billion dollars in the terms of the legislative base set for 2016. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance in respect of Partial Financing of Sanatoriums of Higher Education Institutions, to reject as such that it does not impose costs on the non-proprietary social insurance system and is not related to the provision of material security and social services in the event of an accident. It should be noted that, in view of the social and important issue of State financial support for the sanatoriums of higher education institutions, the Head of State sent a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine insisting on the need for a solution, in the 2016 budget, this funding was not foreseen at all in the current year. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Ludmila Denisov, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services considered the President's proposals at its meeting on December 9th and, as a result, notes the following. According to members of the committee, one of the most important public tasks in providing social protection for young people is the realization of their right to health, including through financial support for Ukraine’s mandatory state social insurance. In 2001, at the time of the establishment of the Temporary Labour Loss Fund, this institution, together with educational institutions, participated in the healing of student youth, which is the main human resource in the economy and on which the future of our country depends. Thus, the law adopted by Parliament on 3 November 2015 proposes to preserve part of an effective health support system for university students who are members of families of insured persons, and according to the basics of Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory public social insurance, they are entitled to material security and social services in the event of an insurance accident, and in certain cases they are subject to social insurance. Today's support for such health care measures as part of the financing of higher education sanatoriums will reduce the number of exacerbations in chronic diseases among young people, reduce temporary and persistent incapacity and, accordingly, reduce the cost of paying for temporary disability leaves in the future. This is particularly important now in the context of high levels of disease, mortality, poor environmental conditions in the country. Let us stress in particular that the rules of law are in no way contrary to the requirements of the Constitution of Article 13, because they do not violate the property rights of any other subjects of farming and their equality before the law. Regarding the need to finance these measures, when in 2014 the Social Insurance Fund made partial funding to 60 sanatoriums of higher education institutions of 62.2 million dollars, thus improving the health status of 42,000 students. By the beginning of 2015, 50 sanatoriums, 45 million higher education institutions, needed adequate funding. At present, however, there are only nine of such functioning health-care institutions in higher education institutions, according to previous estimates in 2016, their partial funding at the expense of social insurance costs requires $15.2 million in expenditure from the fund. At the same time, I also point out to the National Deputies that on 23 November, the President, in his letter to the Prime Minister, considers the issue of State financial support for sanatoriums, the prophylaxis of higher education institutions, which is proposed to regulate the bill in question, the social weight and insists on the need for its resolution in the course of the preparation of the Ukrainian State Budget project for 2016. Regrettably, however, the corresponding funding for the country’s budget targets for this year has not been set. Therefore, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the legislation, sanatorium and profile of nine higher education institutions, they will receive financial resources at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund, which will cost almost 15 million dollars, which is small costs, will restore the provision of services to the students, and will provide jobs for the medical staff of these establishments. The committee therefore proposes to accept, reject the President's proposals and adopt the law as a basis. All in all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are questions. Please ask me a question, Oleg Lazko. To the head of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to address you on the occasion that we are considering the fifth draft and returned with the President's proposals. A year ago, Parliament passed Law 1086, which gives women the right to retire when they reach the age of 55. This law was passed last January. The President vetoed the law and returned it. To date, it has been a year -- this law has not been passed to Parliament for the President's vote to review and reject the President's veto, to overcome the President's veto. I ask you to bring to Parliament Bill 1086, which was voted here in Parliament, to overcome the President's veto, and to allow Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please 1865: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. There's a committee proposal to beat the President's veto. Please, Your Honor, I'll put this proposal to the vote right away. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:43]] For 178. Dear colleagues, 178 votes. The veto is not over; the law is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, 12 o'clock. And according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a 30-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputies of the beginning of work and invite the deputies to the Hall, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next draft of the law. Now, according to the Rules, we are going to consider the laws in the second reading. 2090a is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of state defence orders. From the committee to the report, Vinnik, deputy Winnik, is invited. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, your second reading is subject to a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defense Order. In particular, I would like to point out that we have already voted on draft laws in the defense field today. We've passed a law with you that, for breaking technical regulations or regulations, can properly punish the director of the defence company, put him away for 10 years. The State Defense Order Act is much more serious and more systematic. And I hope that we will take him up with you in a responsible manner. The second reading bill included 13 proposals, 9 of them included, 2 counted editorially, one counted partially, one rejected. In addition, after the table was considered by the Committee prepared for second reading, on the last day of the submission of proposals from the national deputies, there were several other suggestions that were no longer included in the final table. This is about the proposal of national deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymirovich. It refers to the changes to the second paragraph of section six of the bill, which he proposes to publish in the context of what is proposed for submission by the National Security Council and the defence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may allow the conclusion of a public contract without the conclusion of a compensatory contract for a special period. Instead, this proposal was rejected by the committee because it was regulated at another point. In addition, National Deputy Solovy Yuri Igorovic, in agreement with the National Security and Defence Council of the Ministry of Defence, suggested that the need for the proposed second reading of the granting of rights to foreign operators should be ruled out if the contracting authority had the authority to conduct external economic activities, he suggested that this rule should be excluded. In fact, the point is that the idea was to empower the Ministry of Defence, for example, to engage in imported activities alone. Instead, this is a custom and not the function that we expect from the Ministry of Defense, we have a state-owned concert that has the proper powers. In addition, this goes against established export control standards. And so (under the stenogram) I propose to exclude the possibility of granting to a foreign operator when the contracting authority has the authority to implement an external activity, this subparagraph, delete paragraph 3 from paragraph 5 of paragraph 6. With regard to the additional stenograms offered by Mr. Solovýv and agreed with the minister of defense and the service of the rear. Paragraph 7 of Section 4 and insert as follows: "During the planning of the defense order, public procurement is based on the purchase of arms and military equipment, military weapons and ammunition, as well as them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u76	Thank you. Please. How much longer? How much longer? Please give me three more minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u77	During the planning of the defense order, the contracting authorities conclude that the purchase of arms and military equipment and weapons and their ammunition, as well as their upgrading with technical repairs, is done solely on a defensive basis. In addition to the purchase and delivery of such supplies in a special period, there is a state of emergency and during the period of anti-terrorist operations." The text that was voted before the first reading was still about the work being done. In fact, there is no need to include this in the defense order because it will significantly burden the state defense order and will be much more difficult to administer the proper work done, including in the field. In addition, it is worth clarifying section 1, paragraph 1, of the bill on the term “military property”. In particular, it is suggested that the word “military” should be excluded from the text of the proposed rule and that the word “other property” should be left behind because, in accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the status of military property is acquired when it is secured by the appropriate military component. In general, the committee, after considering the amendments, proposes to adopt this bill, taking into account what I said under the transcript on the basis and in general, I apologize, in the second reading and in general. If necessary, let's go through the deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, few amendments have been made, most have been taken into account or considered editorially. I can see that the 7th amendment of the Cochérie has not been taken into account. Does it insist? Don't insist on Kosheyeva. And as amended, please: Shepherd, then Litwin. Please turn on the microphone, Taras, Mr. Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u79	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. We ask for confirmation of 12 revisions because this right is supposed to exclude tender purchases during an anti-terror operation. We think that as long as we have this operation for an indefinite period of time, there may be some kind of control over the purchases in the defense complex. Thank you. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u80	Please comment, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u81	We have provided with a whole range of laws with you a simplified order of purchases not only in terms of military property, weapons, defence supplies, but even jobs, for example, when we were building fortification buildings, we were predicting a simplified procurement regime. In fact, given that I'm sure the weapon is the main thing that the Ukrainian army needs for a special period, this corresponding amendment has been introduced. Because we understand that the special period and the anti-terrorist operation that is currently going on is only necessary for Ukraine's legal definition, even though we have full-scale aggression, the war by the Russian Federation. Realizing that it's very difficult right now to properly confirm this amendment to the Self-Help faction in the Hall, because not many deputies and not everyone will understand for sure what's really going on right now. Because this will severely limit the right and ability of the General Staff's services and the Ministry of Defense to buy weapons quickly during a special period. I'm going to propose to my self-help colleagues once again, maybe we should call this off, if that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u82	Finish up, please, 30 seconds. Mr. Taras, do you insist on voting? Self-help insists on voting. So now I'm going to ask for confirmation of the 12th amendment of Pashinsky, Vinick and Krivenk's authorship. I ask you to prepare for the vote, to take your seats. Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] So Mr. Taras meant not the 12th, but the 8th amendment, so that we know what we're voting for. So, at the suggestion of national deputy Taras Shepherd, I am asking for confirmation of the amendment supported by the committee and committee to vote in favour of its confirmation, amendment 12. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote yes for confirmation. [[13:06:02]] For the 120th. 120 for. The decision is not made. Please turn on the microphone, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u83	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Reporter! I made amendments, they're under the draft law for second reading, 3rd and 8th. It's taken into account in part, and it's taken into account in editorial terms, instead, I don't see what we got in the right column, and it's not practical, even though it's a positive committee decision. What it means is, by the way, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority said that the law should also be extended to state bodies that are not formally military formations, but actually have all the signs of military formations. In particular, they are made up of military personnel and are subject to the provisions of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service. They are also involved in an antiterrorist operation, such as the State Special Liaison Service, the State Special Transportation Service, the State Security Authority, and then we need to take them into account in this law. And I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u84	Please finish 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u85	And I would very much like the rapporteur to agree that these amendments find their positive reflection in the draft law, otherwise we will have to go back and make the necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u86	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u87	We have the defenses of states engaged in military formations, first and foremost. In fact, the law regulates supply in military formations and those responsible for the provision of military uniforms. That's why we considered it editorially because we indicated other military formations formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and the law enforcement agencies of the special purpose, in no way is said about the transport service in this case. Do you really think that the government's defense order, we need to provide guns and transportation services. The committee thinks it's premature, so let's take the committee's editorials into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u88	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like to make your proposal now. And turn on the microphone again, Vladimir Litwin, form a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u89	The proposal is this: "There may be other military state assets in the context of a special period of emergency and during the course of an anti-terrorist operation, which may include other military state property that ensures the activity and functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and the law enforcement authorities of a special purpose, if its purchase is a state secret" - it is written that is considered editorially. But then I don't see it in the right column, so it's counted. And it's not just about the transport service, I've given you a conclusion from the Science and Technology Department, which clearly highlights the need to take this position into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u90	I mean, if I'm not mistaken, you insist that there be a vote for including this amendment in the body of the law entirely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u91	Full-scale.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u92	I think the committee can agree and there's no need to vote, because otherwise we'll balance the law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u93	We can agree, but let the committee say it again if the committee agrees to take the amendment into account, not editorially, but completely, we take it out of the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u94	If the purchase of property is actually done under a state procedure that provides for the acquisition of property by the state. Buying goods that constitute a state secret, if a circle of entities that are clearly limited, in fact, by law enforcement authorities with a special purpose in that edition that you have issued, other military formations formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, does not go against the law if it allows us to adopt a law in general. The committee agrees because, to date, the state defense order has not been accepted. And if we don't accept it, we're going to have serious problems with the defense companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u95	Thank you. The room will still vote and the hall will take full stand. The amendment is edited and included in the wording that Vladimir Litwin gave. And, dear fellows, all the adjustments that have been made, I beg of you. What is the correction? [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the correction? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u96	Thank you. I'd still like to put my amendment to approval. In the supply of defence supplies worth more than 5 million euros, it is only natural to introduce rules that promote compensation in the form of work related to the maintenance and repair of military special equipment and military equipment, the provision of services, such as improving the skills of defence and security professionals, investment, transfer of property rights, intellectual property, and so on. Data compensation conditions are favourable to Ukraine. for Ukraine, and you don't have to give them up. The bill on this subject proposes that the liability of a compensatory offset agreement be abolished under certain circumstances. And it's all about speeding up the supply of defence products. Yet such simplification is not always necessary for the execution of a defense order. That is why we propose to leave the rule on the obligation of offset contracts, compensatory contracts, to supply defence supplies worth more than 5 million euros, but to anticipate the possibility of non-compliance if the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine or the Cabinet accept the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u97	Now, Mr. Yuri, I'm going to give you 30 seconds, and now I'm going to give you 30 seconds, but in those 30 seconds, you're going to say, "What's the amendment number?" Turn on the Levchenkov Jury microphone for 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you. In view of the fact that, unfortunately, the committee had made a decision before he had the right to do so, because he had not waited until the last day of adoption of the amendments, my amendment came on time, but the table did not. My amendment is as follows, if specifically legal, paragraph 6 of section 6 of the first bill, which reads as follows: "In a special period of emergency and during the anti-terrorist operation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may be allowed to enter into a public contract without the conclusion of a compensatory offset contract." So not to take away offset compensation contracts at all, because in fact they can still be convenient in many circumstances, but to allow this moment to be removed if necessary through the PRSP mechanism. Please consider my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u99	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u100	See what this is about? It's really good that when we buy something abroad, we import it into Ukraine, we get the right technology, or some unique spare parts that could be manufactured or used in Ukraine. At the same time, during a special period, during a state of war, there is sometimes no time to negotiate. You do realize that under such a contract, Ukraine will have an additional benefit and that much longer negotiations are needed to obtain it. And you understand that very well, and sometimes you don't have enough time. We strongly support that any import purchase should be accompanied by an offset contract, which would also pass on the technology of the same production in Ukraine, but sometimes there is no time. And that's why we make a reservation as a legislator that in some cases, when a special period is declared, when an appropriate state of emergency is declared, is the right not to make offset contracts, not more than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, to discuss this, Mr. Yuri, will you explain? According to the Rules, I can make existing amendments for confirmation, withdraw them. I can't make corrections from the voice in the second reading. So let's move on now, dear colleagues, to the vote for this bill. There is no correction, Mr. Yuri, legally. What's the number? What's the amendment number? Please explain the amendment and whether it exists or if I can put it to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u102	Look, I would actually suggest that Mr. Levchenk go to the legal office or, perhaps, even to the Constitutional Court, understand what "the last day of amendment" is. The point is that we got Mr. Levchenk's amendment by fax at 17 hours when the table had already been formed by the second reading, and even considered by the committee. But, nevertheless, we'll report that Mr. Levchenk's appropriate offer has been received, and we'll report it to the session room. And we're also formulating the position of the committee, which is approved by the relevant decision that it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, so that there is no tension in the hall and no unnecessary discussion, I will put Lechchenk's proposal for a vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The committee denies this amendment. Therefore, please vote: whoever supports the amendment of Yuri Lewchenk, please vote. Please vote. Please turn on the board and vote. [[13:16:30.]] For-95 95 for. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded the discussion of this bill. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. A vote is about to take place. Please, colleagues, I will, of course, put a signal vote first, but it would be right if the defense laws weren't delayed just because of the lack of discipline in the hall. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of a state defence order, number 2090a. Vote alert, please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[13:17:43]] For-191 Colleagues, I can put it again if there's enough people in the room. Or maybe we could just postpone the vote when there's enough people in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u104	Let's move it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u105	The proposal from the committee is to move. Another Pashinski 1 minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn not even to the session room, but to the people who are now watching us work hard to maintain the state's security. There are cheap populist words, and there are actions. The actions of the People's Deputy are voting. We just saw the hall vote. What is a state defense order? These are jobs in our factories, they're wages, they're raising the potential of our defense, and we've just seen what our job is worth. I'm very much asking you to put the vote again and, believe me, there will be media resources to report to demagogies of populists who lie that they're protecting Ukraine and they're failing our defense programs themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u107	Thank you. We don't have a discussion, we just have a proposal. So, dear colleagues, now I'm going to re-vote, if there's not enough votes, I think the hall will agree with me to postpone the vote on this issue. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please and the secretariat of the Supreme Council report the vote, and I request that the factions call a colleague of the deputies to the Chamber. If everyone's ready, I'm re-voting the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on Forming and Implementing State Defence Order 2090a. Signal vote. Please vote. [[13:20:14]] For 213 Colleagues may not have been able to vote? Yuri Vitaliyovich, I see I haven't been able to vote. Let's remobilize. Colleagues, invite an MP to the hall. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Colleagues, please come into the hall, who is in the towers. I'll put it to the vote again. You can't see the potential, you can't see the columns of the deputies entering the hall. Yeah, yeah, it's getting bigger. Can we vote? Please prepare, colleagues. Once again, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of the 2090a State Defence Order. Signal vote. Please vote, support. Please. We vote responsibly and in agreement. [[13:21:58]] For the 220. Come on, come on, guys, let's go. Come in, 6 votes is something you can do completely. We go into the hall, we prepare for the vote, we occupy jobs. That's right. Don't come out of the hall, we'll go into the hall. Colleagues, we're not leaving. Are you guys ready? Vote. So, the 2090's "State Defense Order" signal vote. Colleagues, signal vote, we vote, we vote. Please, 2090a. Signal vote. [[13:23:04]] For 225 It's just a win. So we're taking up jobs. I'm not going to put up a warning. I'm going to put it to a vote. Please prepare, take your seats. To ensure that there is another MP who is missing. He's here, he's with us, he's in the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders to form and execute a state defence order (No. 2090a) on second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Support, vote. Please turn on the voting system. We're backing it up. [[13:24:07]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill, the authors of the amendments to the fruitful work. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of Law 2431: amending the legislation on the protection of economic competition to determine the size of fines for violations of economic competition legislation by the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to the report. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Andrew Volodymyrovich, the hall awaits your flaming talk. We invite you to the rostrum. Ukraine is calling. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u108	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Bill 2431 is brought to your attention. The committee received 16 proposals from members of the people, most of them on the committee included in the body of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Legal Administration has no comment on the bill, so the committee has decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in a second reading and in general as a committee. However, the honourable chairman, to the deputies, some have noted that the committee has taken into account amendment 14 of the Solovia People’s Chamber on the possibility that it would be impossible for the court to rule on the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee to impose fines on the subjects of the business. So, I'd like to make one of the amendments, the 14th, which is counted, the National Deputy Zalitschuk is asking for confirmation. I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u109	We'll go gradually, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u110	And we don't have any more comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u111	No, I have to go through the amendments that were rejected. And the deputies won't insist, and when we get to 14, I'm going to give the word to Mrs. Svetlani. So, respectable colleagues. 2 repairs sold. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 3rd, I've been walking. Don't insist. 4th, Sold. Don't insist. 6th, Sold. Don't insist. 7th, I've been walking. Don't insist. 8th, Sold. I see you don't insist. 10th, Dove. Don't insist. 12th, Janicki. Don't insist. And 14th. Is this about the 14th, Andry Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u113	14th Amendment. Please turn on the microphone of Svetlani Zlatczyk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I generally support the bill, which is a very important bill in the framework of European integration. At the same time, I propose to reject the amendment of my colleague Yuri Solovia. Why? Three arguments. First. The amendment essentially takes the right of the courts to review the amount of fines imposed, the AMCA. Leaving essentially a monopoly on the antimonopoly committee to insert, impose fines. Even considering the sad situation in our courts, it is mathematically possible for an engaged decision by an antimonopoly committee to be far higher than in the courts where there are three institutions and at the same time an appeal. In addition, I remind you that this is a direct norm in our Association Agreement, which obliges us to allow the courts to review the penalties imposed by the Antitrust Committee. I suggest we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u115	I'll put it right, put it on confirmation, Mrs. Svetlano, put it on confirmation and don't support it. Please comment on the head. Please. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u116	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, this bill is an extremely important and essentially first economic bill. And if we're rejecting my amendment today, we're essentially crippling and destroying the role of the antitrust committee in Ukraine. It should be understood that the antitrust committee is investigating hundreds of millions or billions of cases. So these investigations relate to monopolists and, above all, oligarchs who have acquired their capital in monopolizing one market or another. And my amendment makes it impossible for the courts to reduce the fines imposed by the antitrust committee. And so if today, right now, it doesn't get any support, it means that any oligarch, by turning to the court, can cancel the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee and look at the downturn of a hundred, a thousand times the amount of fine imposed by the Antimonopoly Committee. Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u117	Please give me 30 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u118	In fact, this will mean preserving all monopoly markets in our country. And if we're doing this on the Antimonopoly Committee, then all control structures in our state have to be eliminated and given such powers, first of all, the courts that will decide. And we know how the courts work in our country and how many decisions are made. Thank you. So I appeal to everyone to support this amendment unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u119	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please comment on the discussion in the middle of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u120	We have no discussion under the Rules, here we have to make an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u121	What is the position of the committee on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u122	The committee took into account the amendment made by the national deputy Saul and incorporated it into the body of the law. It is counted for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u123	And it remains unchanged?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u124	Yes, an amendment to the Rules is made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u125	I understand the position of the committee. So I'm going to put the vote to 14 amendments, please be careful. We don't have a discussion right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u126	There's a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u127	Okay. Dear colleagues! We have an amendment under the Rules, any MP may declare this amendment, support it, or not support it. Now I'm going to give the word "Alexandri Kugel," but the second reading of the bill is still not for discussion, it's for voting. Please turn on Kugel, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Why can't we support Mrs. Zlatschuk's offer? Because the courts do not co-exist or deal with legal acts, and the method of calculating fines that exists in the Antimonopoly Committee is bylaws. And any decision of the Antimonopoly Committee will be stopped in court. I ask you very much, Mrs. Zalitschuk, to vote now, because this will be a complete opportunity to create competitive conditions in Ukraine. And giving the commission to the committee to further work out the legislative direct rule of review and prosecution so that it is not a sub-legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal came to confirm the 14th amendment of the national MP Solovia. I ask you to prepare for the vote. So, who supports Svetlana Zalichek's proposal to confirm the 14 amendments that the committee has failed to take into account, please vote. The one I took into account in Saul’s writings. Yes, please vote yes to the 14th amendment. Please vote. We vote for confirmation, we support the committee. [[13:32:54]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. In this way, we have completed the discussion of the bill and we can go to the vote. Please, one more minute, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u130	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendment of the national deputy Solovia was not supported in the session hall, so chapter XXXVI (series) XXXVII moves from the left side of the table to the right, so that the text is inseparable. And I would like to propose that this bill should now be voted on as a whole, we should make some sort of consensus decision. We talked to representatives of all factions and offered to reach consensus and minimize those negative risks and to empower the courts to change the fines imposed by the Antimonopal Committee. We have been asked to include in the Final Act a rule that the provisions of part two of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition will be put into effect one year after the law has become effective or the Antimonopoly Committee has adopted a methodology for imposing penalties for offences under this competition law. That's why I'm asking you to give me a mandate, Andry Volodymyrovich, the Legal Department, the Committee -- and I said this under the transcript, so that we can now ensure the adoption of the bill as a whole -- give us a mandate in preparing the bill on the head's signature, take this into account in the Final Positions, so that this rule concerning judges would enter one year after the adoption of the method of accounting for these fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, is this proposal really compromised, or is it supported by all? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, Andrew Volodymyrovich, this is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote and see if there are any votes. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please, let's go into the hall and take up jobs. I'm going to put it to a vote, and we're going to see how compromised these proposals are. Everybody's ready, right? I am voting for a bill amending the legislation on the protection of economic competition (number 2431), as amended by the transcript of the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovic. Signal vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, signal vote. [[13:36:28]] For-189 No votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! Please, with a motive. Let's exchange thoughts. Maybe we'll come up with some kind of compromise formulation. If we leave, we'll leave. The first one raised Sidorovich's hand. Is that how you're gonna do it or not? Then the Birds, then the Pashinski. Okay! Then there's Solovay. And in that, let's limit the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u132	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, if we're talking about the need for postponement, there, for a year, we're actually undermining Toms. we deny the 124th article of the Constitution, which states that the jurisdiction of the courts extends completely to all legal relations. If we're talking about a lack of some kind of methodology that needs to be developed within three months, we can only talk about a delay within three months, but not for any. No way, not a year. Courts don't need any absolute methodology at all, how fines are now being counted. Therefore, in this context, the law needs to be supported, but without delay applying the review of the decisions of the Antimonopoly Court for a year, three months is the consideration. In order to prepare the methodology and the dot, the law must enter into legal force.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u133	I'll make it clear: without the correction that Ivanchuk made. Yeah? Please, Birddog, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u134	Your Honor, the question now is whether to authorize the courts to change on their own the size of the fines imposed by the Antimonopoly Committee? At present, we have only the maximum limit of these penalties. To talk about how this is going to be done in court, I think it's wrong, because we know what the court's judgment is going to be in the case. the right decisions are made. So I think that the national deputy Ivanchuk was given a compromise position, because we now have a section of the vote in the room. And we have to clearly put in place a methodology just to calculate fines to make it a legal act, to work out the practice of applying it, and only then can it be given to the courts, or it will result in a mixed application of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u135	Thank you. Sergei Pashinsky. Turn on the microphone. Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to pay attention to what's going on. For the past 24 years, the 22nd Antimonopoly Committee has been a tool for protecting oligarchs. Today -- and we can see for the fines, for the things that are currently being considered -- it's already the Antimonopoly Committee. Of course, these corrupt clans don't like it, and they've come up with a loophole to get rid of the responsibility of going to the farm court, and they're going to get a hundred thousand dollars. This is an unacceptable situation, and we do not need to adopt legislation without the amendment of Saul’s law or at least this compromising option. Otherwise, it's not the law, it's fake and corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u137	Thank you. Cooge. And Solovay, yes. Kugel and Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u138	My fellow Members, this is an example of this bill -- once again, I am addressing you -- we need to write down the rules directly in the bill, not to make efforts in the bill to develop regulations. I can tell you, when we passed the License Law with you, which has all the direct order, it works today. And the Cabinet of Ministers has been in violation of licensing conditions for a year. And so if we're going to write this bill, we have to vote it in second reading again, write a direct order of counting fines and pennies: both the accusation and the appeal. And this will be the law of direct action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to emphasize what is being proposed. I fully support Pashinsky in that just recently, literally a month or two ago, there were real investigations in the electricity market, in the market for possible oil products, in the market for possible trade in food products, in the markets of air transport. And today these investigations can end with billions of fines for monopolies. Therefore, it is suggested that the courts themselves reduce the size of these fines. It's impossible to accept that. Therefore, if this amendment is not voted on, the content of this law is completely lost. And we should not in any case allow the courts to view the reduction of fines imposed on monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u141	Thank you. Mrs. Svetlano. All right, Mrs. Svetlana, 30 seconds and we're moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a few arguments. So first. You're saying that AMCA started a series of investigations today, but please give me a guarantee that tomorrow the AMCA will not be directly transformed into the same monopolistic organ as it was two or three months ago, that's the first. The other one. I want to draw your attention to the Association Agreement that we signed as a state. And in particular, 255 pages 10, chapter 4, where we directly made a commitment to the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u143	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u144	Thank you. And the last. Today, courts, for example, have a decision to review the sanctions imposed, such as tax. Why we make decisions in favor of one but not the other. So, I suggest we don't lose this law, it's a very important law in terms of competitiveness, but we need to work out such a mechanism to establish institutional capacity to find justice in court. I notice you're signing under the fact that there's no fair trial in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again, if there are no votes, I think it's only right to postpone it. Please comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u146	Vice Speaker Mrs. Siroid asked me to clarify what I said was that part of part two of article 60 entered into force in the "Final Positions" a year from now, not after the adoption of the methodology, but after the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u147	No, we still don't. 3 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u148	They want three months, but three months, it's not real. [[B in m in s a l in]] But, dear friends, you know, it's very important for us to adopt this bill, but that's not the principle: it's a court-martial, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u149	Dear company, let's be very simple right now. Either we find a compromise proposal and we go to a successful vote, or we postpone. Let's finally get Andry Volodymyrovich to make a proposal for the transcript. We'll put her to the vote again. If there are not enough votes, we will postpone the vote on the matter. Please, Andriy Volodymyrovich, describe for the transcript the final editing of your amendment. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. Do we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u150	Well, the Self-Help faction is asking for three months. It's practically impossible. I mean, I can't see, I can't see consensus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u151	Then I bet on the vote, dear colleagues. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u152	People's deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u153	Please, Skrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u154	Thank you, colleagues! Schrum, the "Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, we have a question right now, do you know who we don't trust anymore: the anti-monopoly or the courts? That's not why we don't trust. The method is now of a recommendational nature. We need, in my opinion, not to be of a recommendational nature, to be a normal practice of applying it. I think it's from the Self-Help faction that Mr. Ivanchuk has just made a compromise decision. Let's support him. Otherwise, we'll break the law. And I'm asking you to put up an alarm vote with Mr. Ivanchuk's proposal to postpone for a year after the law has entered into force. If there are no votes, I ask you to read again. Please, a very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u156	Everybody said it, didn't they? We can vote. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the bill of 2431 amending the legislation on the protection of economic competition regarding the determination by the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine of the size of fines for violating the legislation on the protection of economic competition with the amendment sounded by Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanczuk for the transcript. Please vote, signal vote. Vote. [[13:46:44]] For 204 I mean, not everyone got to vote, right? I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm going to put the vote out again. Colleagues, I'm going to re-vote. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? I'm re-voting 2431. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. 2431. Vote, please. Signal vote. Please be supportive. [[13:47:35]] For 210 Andry Volodymyrovich, what is the proposal: do you translate the vote or do you reread the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u157	At 16 o'clock, Mr. Chairman, I have an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-26-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, we will postpone voting on this bill as discussed earlier. And now, according to the Rules, half an hour ago, two factions of Parliament had been called into office, from the Peter Poroshenko bloc and the Fatherland faction, to announce the break. Since the break is actually going to take a general break, we're going to meet in the hall at 4:00. Thank you all for your work. And by 4:00, I'd like everyone to be in the room. Thank you. The Heads of the Coalition’s Coalition, Yuri Lucenko, invite the Supreme Council to the Head of the Council.
