ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u1	Colleagues, 4:00, break time, over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please enter the hall of all those in the towers, all those who have not yet reached the workplace, but are ready for productive and productive work for Ukraine. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is starting its difficult work, please. Are you ready for your registration? I see not all the heads of factions are yet, please the heads of factions come in. Colleagues, let's register. Whoever hangs out in the towers and can't make it, it's bad. Colleagues. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[16:04:48]] There are 358 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about the logic of our work, which has also been spoken on the Conciliation Council. So on the Conciliation Council, there were many references that we would be planning our work to question blocks in different areas. We agreed that today we would have a cluster of law enforcement issues, on Thursday, decentralization and deregulation, on the next Tuesday of the plenary, an information policy that Danchenko was talking about, as well as an agrarian policy issue, but so that we can go through these issues, we have a very important intensive and fruitful work to do. My colleagues, look, I've got a day in front of me, just like you. We have four decisions that are not conflicting, which are likely to be supported by all the halls. Then we have two drafts of the first reading, which are also not conflicting, and then seven drafts of the law enforcement block. If we act in a coherent way, if we act in a systematic way, we can go through this order of things at the very least. I call on everyone to do this. In particular, when the decision is nonconflict, perhaps not to spend all the time discussing it, not to enter into the twenties. Half an hour of discussion, and it's very concise to express your position from factions and move on to decision-making. And it is equally important that the deputies be in the hall and work properly. So, colleagues, I urge you to get into the working atmosphere, and I suggest you start looking at the issues that we have in our agenda. So let us go to the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of Powers of the People’s Deputies of the People’s Republic of Ukraine (Registration No. 4903). So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote now. I remind myself of the logic I have suggested so that we can be disciplined. We are now putting to the vote the issue of consideration of the reduced procedure. Mr. Paul, did you bring a card? Every voice has a weight, Mr. Levchenko. So I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of the Watch Tower for a reduced procedure and I'm asking you to support, colleagues, this proposal. Can I count on you? It does not require much discussion. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Colleagues, the vote is now under way. A brief procedure that supports this proposal is to be voted on. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:08:29]] For-160. Decision taken. That's a good start for work. And the report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u2	Dear Head, fellow members of the National MPs, the committee at its meeting on July 6th reviewed the statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy Member of the Political Party "The People's Front" by St. Dmitry Anatoliyovich on his appointment to serve as Ukraine's first Deputy Attorney General. Taking into account the position in the first part of the second article of the Constitution, article 4 of the Law on the Statute of the People's Deputy, the Committee adopted a decision and made a decision by the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, for consideration by the Supreme Council, and recommends the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a whole. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u3	Thank you very much. Now they're going to tell me that every question needs to be discussed. Really? And there is a need for discussion? There is a need to discuss. Colleagues, please, I'll make a note. Write it down as a minimum. Let's not violate the procedure. A very brief discussion and a vote. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please, colleagues. Meduna Oleg Viacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u4	"The People's Front" is "for"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u5	Thank you for the meaningful and brief presentation. Janite Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u6	Peter Dustenka's Block also supports this decision, but it had to be done a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u7	Thank you. It's just victory, society. The question has been discussed. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, and the People's Front, including! Mr. Yuri! Yuri Timoshenko! Mr. Yuri Timoshenko, please take the vote. There will be a decision to make. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. This is an example of the fact that the Supreme Council in these matters only receives an application, which is making quick and effective decisions. And we need to. I don't think there's any objection to us voting together. There is general agreement on this issue. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready to vote. Heads of factions, I very much ask to invite deputies to the Hall, the Secretariat I ask to invite deputies to the Hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I will, with your permission, conduct an alert to see the level of readiness of the hall. Okay? So I, colleagues, ask you to participate in the rating vote to test the potential of the hall before making decisions. Everyone please take up their jobs. Fellows, please don't go out. Colleagues, please. Please, colleagues. Thank you very much. I ask you to participate in the rating vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:13:29]] For-198 High potential, but not high enough. The trend is correct. Colleagues, one minute, I'm asking for the heads of factions, I want to point out that some factions are in almost full stock and Self-Help, the Radical Party, the People's Front. I'm asking all the other faction heads, as we have today's fashion terminology, not to hang out on the clock, but to go into the hall and work, and people have chosen us, and I'm asking everyone for this moment to come to the hall, to prepare for the decision-making process. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. One minute before making a decision. Then we have about three more non-conflict decisions, we have to adapt to productive and productive work. Colleagues, please move on to decision-making. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, in general, are there no objections to this decision? It doesn't, does it? Everyone's backing up, right? There is no political debate. I very much ask all the deputies, regardless of the factions, by those decrees that are agreed upon so that we can vote together. So, colleagues, please prepare to make a decision. I put to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Watch Tower (register No. 4903), which proposes to take a decision as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:17:20]] For 233 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee with quality work done. Let's move on to the next draft of the decision, and I propose the same pace and endure. The next draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "The rights of the child in Ukraine: security, compliance, protection" (No. 5007). And I'm also asking you to support the proposal to consider this decision on a reduced basis. Please, colleagues, support the review of the reduced procedure 5007. Please vote. [[16:18:13]] For-198 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sisoyenko Irina Volodymyrovna. And I also urge you to be as concise as possible during the report, Mrs. Irina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, September 1st we all took the children to school. We all know and say that the future of our nation is in our children. But at the level of the State, we do so little to ensure that the rights of children are properly realized in the territory of our State. September 29 will be 25 years from the date of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in Ukraine. On the basis of this convention, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act was adopted. In accordance with article 5 of this Law, it is for the government to report annually to Parliament on the implementation and observance of the rights of children. The health of the children of our country is also a very important issue. And unfortunately, that's the question that gets worse every year. The vaccination of all children in Ukraine is critically low. Every year the number of children with cancers is increasing by more than a thousand appeals and diagnosises made to children all over Ukraine. We are constantly looking for funds for the treatment of children, for the treatment of government budgets, for the treatment of parents ’ pockets, for the treatment of grants, and for international funds. And we don't do the main thing: we don't build a system of prevention and early diagnosis of many diseases. We are obliged to establish at the level of the State, at the level of local self - government, and to conduct medical examinations of the health of children in schools, kindergartens. We need to systematically form those government programs that need to be funded.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u10	We have to hold these parliamentary hearings this year and clearly form what state programs should be funded for children, for the protection of children for the next year. And do it at the right time when the state budget is being formed for 2017, not the next year, when it will be impossible to form additional expenditure. So please support our initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u11	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Palatno Arthur Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! The committee supports the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on "Child Rights in Ukraine: Security, Compliance, Protection". I would like to remind you that hearings on the subject were held six years ago, and during this time the situation of children has deteriorated significantly. Hundreds of thousands of children through Russian aggression are forced to seek refuge in a peaceful territory. And it is not always possible for government authorities to provide them with the help they need. In the face of a difficult economic crisis, many decisions have been made regarding the economy of children. And the inevitable consequences have almost never been studied. In general, the vaccine situation remained complex. In order to save a child, it is possible for the benefactors to smuggle a vaccine from the right. I am confident that the officials responsible for the purchase of the vaccine should not only be released, but be brought to criminal responsibility. Dear colleagues! Our committee supports and requests the entire session room to support this parliamentary hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Arthur. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. And please be as concise as possible in your position. Please two for, two for against. Peter Mikhailovich Vanat, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u15	Unguryan is given the word. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u16	I ask you to give my word to Mr. Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the glory of Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u18	Praise God Forever!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u19	First of all, thank you to the initiators. Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for the very important subject you have raised. Indeed, the Supreme Council of Ukraine periodically provides for such socially meaningful topics. And I would like to point out the very constructive position of the committee, which always supports the holding of parliamentary hearings. I think that the subject of child rights is directly related to the subject of human health, parental health, and children’s health. This has already been said. The subject of human rights and especially small citizens of our society is related to family issues. Unfortunately, today many children are raised in single - parent families. A Ukrainian family is at times simply a place where children are not raised but have bad habits. Single - parent families now make up more than 50 percent in Ukraine, and this is a terrible situation. Therefore, our appeal to the government to determine who is now dealing with family issues, family issues, in general. Because the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports has no family, and today it is only as a small department in the Ministry of Social Policy. We too need to consider the subject. Of course, the theme of children who left the anti-terrorist area with their parents is also a very important topic. Therefore, the People's Front faction will support the holding of parliamentary hearings on the subject and will participate actively in their conduct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u20	Thank you. Please, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u21	Please pass the word to Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u22	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! People’s wisdom tells us that there are no foreign children, all their children. I am very much in favour of this very important initiative that our colleagues in the profile committee have proposed, because this initiative is very good and very timely. Guys, we have a chance today to fix those flaws and those mistakes. They've done it to us. In six years, the Ukrainian Parliament has not heard the question of respecting the rights of our children in this session room. It can't be, and we have to fix it. Over the past six years, many fates have been mutilated and hurt. Let's remember how many orphans were unlawfully deprived of their homes, how many fraudsters were molesting their fates, over their rights. At the same time, we also have to pay special attention during these parliamentary hearings to respect the rights to health, including the children of our military personnel, children whose parents are now serving in the ATO zone. You and I passed some very important bills last year to uphold the rights to heal these very categories of children. So our friends don't waste time, we vote all of them unanimously. This decision is vital to our day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko, closing statement. Two minutes to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! No doubt, as co-author of this decision, I will vote in favour of supporting parliamentary hearings aimed at protecting the rights of the child. Why is that important? The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child became one of the first documents of an independent Ukraine and entered into force on September 25, 1991. Much has been done during this time. Along with why it is important to hold these parliamentary hearings in this area. Because 2016 is the end of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Unfortunately, today in September, the government is preparing an unprepared project to continue the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thus, from the following year, very many programs aimed at protecting and enforcing children’s rights in Ukraine can be withdrawn from funding. Moreover, so far, a number of government decisions have not been made to implement the bills already adopted in this Supreme Council, aimed at protecting, for example, children who have suffered from armed conflict or children who have lost everything as a result of the war that is taking place. So it's very important today to look at the state of execution, to point out to the government for underwork, to force the government to work as a single mechanism, because unfortunately today the activities of the various ministries in the protection of children's rights are distinct and often do not match and contradict each other. In addition, in the framework of parliamentary hearings, I am convinced that we will address the problems of each of the critical categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u25	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u26	Each of the critical categories of children and make the government accountable to Ukrainian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'd like the secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. I'm voting on a bill of parliamentary hearings on "Child Rights in Ukraine: Security, Compliance, Protection" (registration No. 5007). I propose to vote on the ruling as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:30:47]] For 260 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee on quality work. Let's move on to the next decision. The next decision to hold parliamentary hearings: "The 75th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jaru: lessons of history and modernity." An important very topic, planned as an international action, and I ask you to support it, and I will put the brief procedure to the vote first, Mrs. Irina. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting on a reduced procedure. [[16:31:39]] For 214 214 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina. Oh, I'm sorry, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, as you know, at the end of September this year is 75 years old from the tragedy of Baba’s Yar. Babin Jar in the years of World War II became a brotherly tomb for representatives of many nationalities who then lived in Ukraine. During the Fascist occupation of Kiev in 1941-1943, it was in Baba’s Jar that was the site of the massacres that killed thousands of Jews and Roma. And I'm asking the transcript to make the same determination that the Roma, Soviet prisoners of war and members of the underground, members of the esteemed Ukrainian Nationalists' Organization, hostages, Ukrainian patriots. In particular, in just two days, from 29 to 30 September 1941, nearly 34,000 Jews were shot in Baba Jar. And terrible, but the magnitude of Baba Jar's tragedy was silent in Soviet times, and only during Ukraine's independence did we begin to learn the truth about this terrible tragedy. I am convinced that my fellow Members that we are with you, representatives of the various political forces, are the only ones who condemn xenophobia in all its manifestations, anti-Semitism. In fact, the Ukrainian Parliament is to take part in these important measures to honor the memory of tens of thousands of people who were innocently shot in Babin Yar. So there is a proposal with you to hold special parliamentary hearings on September 27, the days when many, international, including delegations will gather to Ukraine to discuss the historical consequences of this terrible tragedy and to honor the memory of the victims of these terrible repressions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u29	Thank you very much. And I want to actually remind you that the huge number of people that were shot were Ukrainian patriots -- 621 members of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. No exaggeration, an outstanding Ukrainian poet, Helen Tellig, was killed by her vivid young life. And that is why this tragedy, like many other nations that have suffered as a result of these atrocities, is of particular importance to us. I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, from the rostrum, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! The tragedy of Baba’s Yar began with the great tragedy of the Jewish nation. But later, as you know, it was a great tragedy for Ukrainians, Roma, and people of many nationalities who lived in Kiev. As Mrs. Irina Heratschenko reported, the leaders of many countries will come to Kiev to share with us the memory of this terrible period and to make sure that it never happens again. And it was from our initiative, from the initiative of our guests, that we decided to talk about it here in this room. I would like to invite you to vote in favour of this decision, our Committee on Culture and Spirituality has supported it and has called for a vote on both the ground and the invitation to participate. While Ukraine is at war with an aggressor, the memory of every innocent man killed should support us in this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u31	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Logan's Georgi Volodymyrovich, please, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u32	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the tragedy of Baba Jar is not just the story of our state, it's the ending of the lives of our citizens, for someone we know, someone has learned this story from the books. For me, my relatives are in Baba’s Yar. For me, it is the memory of those who gave their lives for our country to build our country. Therefore, our respect should be the greatest. Not only do we listen, but we do our best to support and remind our children that such events in our country will never come back. We must guarantee that we are a free state, where there is no place for anti-Semitism, where there is no place for xenophobia. I am confident that together we will be able to bring our nation to the Europeans. to the level of European human rights protection. So please support this decision and honor the memory of those who have died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u33	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u34	Please hand over Lithuania to Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u35	Turn on the microphone in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u36	Dear Head, recently a man came to my family from America, a Jew of nationality who was at war. A family saved by my parents during the war. And I have to tell you, there were a lot of Jewish citizens in the village. They were either beastly or strangled in killers or shot. And it is clear that we must respond properly to that date. At the same time, I can see that perhaps it would be better for us to adopt earlier the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this subject in order to anticipate appropriate measures. And maybe I'm talking to the initiators of this document, we should make a decision today to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is exactly Tuesday, in order to discuss this issue with reference and history, the lessons we all have to teach. Because I think that the parliamentary hearings, they're not going to give us the effect that we could get by looking at not only these events, but also a series of other events of such a tragic dimension and character. At the same time, let's face it, this is going to cause a mixed reaction, including mixed estimates in Ukrainian society. I think it's enough to read the memories of one of the authors of the book, Kuznietsov, about Babin Jar. And I don't think we need to have broken lines here. So I'd like to ask, let's maybe make a decision and hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we'll take an open decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. With your permission, I will respond because your opinion and your position are important, and we have discussed this. Because the measure and the decree were prepared, indeed, as an international action involving high - ranking people of other nations. But, Mr. Volodymyr, what is the risk? We planned the agenda for this session in such a way that our sessions would not be during international delegations. And it would be very risky for us to call a meeting and, God forbid, we wouldn't have enough quorum for him. That's why we've come up with a softer version, an easier choice of parliamentary hearings for which we're going to invite all the deputies, all the factions, but we're not going to be conditioned by the quorum necessary for this special session. Your opinion is important, but we have offered a softer way to avoid putting this extraordinary action at risk. I hope you share and understand our position. And in this case, it was a common position and an international position, and we proposed this format, and let's just fill in the format with the maximum content, and give it the maximum public sound, and it'll be our contribution to marking this terrible tragedy. I'd like to invite Miroshnik Yuri Romanovich, the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u38	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, dear friends, in fact, it's an inextricable thing we're discussing right now. Seventy-five years ago, there was a tragedy that has a resonance both in the east and in the west of Ukraine, which has a resonance throughout the world, because it's the very concept of "humanity," the very notion of the value of life, the very notion of our future with you, as well as the past. There is no future country that does not know its past, which does not feel sorry for it, does not experience the tragedy that took place in Baba’s Yar. This decision, these hearings, must unite not only our hall but the entire Ukrainian society, so that the tragedy will never be repeated in our history to the Ukrainians. There's no right and left, no power and no opposition, and we're all citizens of our country. It's the pain of our citizens who have left their lives there in Baba's Jar. Not just the Jews, but many Ukrainians, and many of us realize that it was death for many of our values and should not be repeated. I call on all, dear friends, all 100 percent of those present in the Hall to support this decision and then actively participate in the debate during parliamentary hearings. We must learn lessons from tragedy and not repeat them in the future. Honorable fellows, both on his own behalf and on our behalf. Our faction I call upon all to vote in favour of this decree. And thank you to the authors who have made this determination for the consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna, Radical Party, gives the word Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u40	Hello. I give the floor to Mr. Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u41	Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! According to the Rules, parliamentary hearings are held for this purpose. in matters of great interest to society and need a legislative solution. In this case, it's not the same as the decision we're talking about right now. Gentlemen, it is imperative that you do not forget that the tragedy of Baba’s Yar began not 75 years ago, but within a year and a half, it will be 100 years after it began. When Muraviov’s gangs captured Kyiv, here in Babany Yar, 5,000 people were shot for embroidery for Ukrainian language. We should keep that in mind. Remember, bowing your head to the tragedy in Baba’s Yar during World War II before those victims. I want to say that much larger victims were shot here from the 18th to the 41st. Can we forget about them today? We have no right to forget about them. And when we honor them, we honor all those who perished here on our earth with their blood. Not without taking nationalities into account. I propose to hold a solemn session dedicated to the tragedy of Baba Jara since the 18th year is about honoring the memory, not parliamentary hearings. And the second. We don't know the number of victims, there's the Institute of Memory. But the Supreme Council has to fund him because. There's no funding. And the Institute of Memory needs to learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u43	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u44	People died here in the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Dear colleagues, there are literally two more speeches per minute and we are moving on to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In two minutes, there will be a decision on this decision. So one minute is Andrey Illenko, one minute is Bereza. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u46	Dear Society, we must honor the memory of innocently murdered people in Baba’s Yar, and we must remember our true history in order to make this horror and in general the horror of the twentieth century, the century when Ukraine was subject to genocide, when Ukraine was subject to genocide, when Ukraine was occupied among the various totalitarian states, this horror should never happen again. And we realize that the Communist authorities, she wasn't telling the truth about these tragedies. Similarly, she did not tell the truth about Babin Yar. And so many lies have been told by Communist propaganda, but we need to know the truth. We need to know that 621 members of the organization of Ukrainian nationalists were murdered by invaders in Baba Jar. In Babay Yar, a great Ukrainian poet, Helen Tellig, was murdered by the Nazis. We must remember this too, and we must honor all the victims of this inhuman tragedy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u47	Thank you. One minute, Bereza. Turn on the microphone, please, Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I agree with my colleague Andrew Illenck. And what I want to add is that the tragedy in Baba's Yar is a common tragedy between the Ukrainian and Jewish people. My family was killed in Baba’s Yar, and it was a personal tragedy for me too. I would be grateful if now all colleagues would join together to accept this decision. They'll stop walking around the hall, they'll go back to their seats, and then they'll vote together, because I see there's no controversy, there's political will, there's understanding. And in order to resolve this question, I ask everyone to come back now so that it doesn't happen like the Watchtower vote, when there was no one against it at all, but there were no votes. I will be grateful to all who support this decision, and I hope that this is really the way of understanding within society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u49	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for making a decision. So I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings "The 75th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy: lessons of history and modernity" (number 5058) as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, colleagues, please back up. Vote. [[16:49:01]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you to the decision makers, Mrs. Irina, the committee. Yes, I was once an initiator.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u50	I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, because in fact it was Mr. Andrew who initiated it, because he took into account the situation that it was not our sessional week and suggested that we be held as special hearings to honor the memory of all the dead. Thank you, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u51	Thank you for your decision. Let's move on to the next, final draft of the ruling, which is in order of the day. Likewise, I call for the best possible work. This is a bill for parliamentary hearings on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine" (number 4029a). And first of all, I would like to invite the deputies to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Short-term procedure, 4029a. Please vote. [[16:50:19]] For 224 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u52	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On 13 July 2016, the Committee on Science and Education decided to hold hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine". Dear colleagues, when I speak to you, I want support. Because the terrible situation that now lies, unfortunately, in financing education and preschool, primary, general, vocational education, technology and colleges, higher education, leads us to make very many manual decisions after that. You can't keep doing that. Dear colleagues, when we discuss this issue, we need to understand that it is not just about financing education. It's actually about building a model for financing our future. Because today the border is not just in the ATO zone and in the Crimea. The front goes first in the brains of our children, the brains of our teachers. Dear colleagues! So when I look at you, we have to make some very simple decisions with you about funding each single education chain. Today, the President of Ukraine said that there would be no cancellation of scholarships, that there would be no cancellation of budget funding for the Master's degree. But we need to understand that we are at the legislative level once and for all to resolve this issue. So, if you'll excuse me, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u53	Thank you, dear fellows. Let's give it up. [[Applause]] Two for, two for against, please. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u54	Krivenko Victor, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." Dear colleagues! We support these hearings. And at this very moment, the budget process will be actively under way. And those initiatives that are now from the Minister of Education need to be supported as much as possible. And we're also in favour of raising salaries for teachers as the foundation of our state. So 2 numbers need to be considered not only the state, but also the specific conclusions to be the Ministry of Finance. And I have a request, Mr. Head. To personally invite the Minister of Finance to be present, the Deputy Prime Minister. And so we can hear what to do with the prestige of the teacher's work. Because we see now that the low school competition has passed, no one wants to be a teacher. We understand that the system of the production of educated people is the basic infrastructure of any state. Any agro-related state, from a country that only traded because it grew and dug, became a normal, highly developed country only when it built its education system: building universities, importing teachers. She made it a prestigious job, and in every village, teachers were respected in every city. We must restore the prestige of the teacher’s work, so these hearings are precious. And it's a big request to do the same so that there's a direct broadcast of "The Council" from these hearings and that we focus on them and prepare them qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Artemenko Andry Viktorovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u56	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Problems of Financing Education and Science in Ukraine. It is suggested that these hearings be held on November 2. The honourable colleagues who are proposing this project, you don't know about the state and funding of education, I'll tell you. On September 1, I was in the village of Hovmi in the region of Chernigiv. A rural school, which no matter what my arrival, had been closed down, and 30 rural children would have been deprived of their education rights. They were to go to a nearby village for God knows how many miles along a road that is not available, a school bus that is not available. There is no Internet in this school, there is no TV in this school, there are several teachers who are deprived of their job rights. Are you asking about the state of education? Ask the professors of vocational education when they made decisions, transferred them to the local budget of CTU, colleges where orphans are taught, children from low-income families, children from rural families. You're thus denying them the possibility of getting a vocational education. You're writing out today from abroad as governors and ministers, and tomorrow you're going to write out from Turkey and from China as combiners and tractors, because no one's going to process the Ukrainian fields. Because the policy of reducing funding for the education sector is in fact a state policy of demobilising the next generation of Ukrainians. You want to turn Ukrainians into cheap illiterate labor. Regrettably, those who run the state today were obviously poor at school or bought diplomas and didn't know the words of German Chancellor Bismarck: "Who doesn't finance education will build prisons." You're depriving the Ukrainians of the future, denying them the right to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u58	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u59	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City. The opposition bloc will clearly support this topic, and we will certainly vote in favour of these parliamentary hearings. What is more, the questions are really very loud. To date, as of 1 September, some 130 schools have not been opened in Ukraine. 410 or 413 schools, those who switched from secondary school to primary school. The 17th year will be a transitional year for us. Why? Because the Government has established a new framework for the transition to new standards of learning. What will these standards of learning give them, how will they respond, how will they work? So far, we have a human resources problem, a wage problem for the staff. How are we going to compose and shape these images? How will the support school work, how will we finance it? How will children be delivered, how many buses will be purchased? And so on, and so on, and so on. The colossal amount of benefits that our children had today has been transferred to local councils in view of decentralization. As we heard today, the President said that local government budgets had increased five to six times. So I say this a hundred times, let's look at how much the cost of these local authorities has increased and what the money is going to be. We need to solve this problem today. We need to look at the problem of PTUs, which are now virtually left alone with local authorities. How can we bring out the vocational education system today? How can we prepare the resources that we need so much for the economy today? How do you cook the same steels, the same ovens and so on and so forth? So, indeed, the subject is very snarky, evil, and we will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u60	Thank you. One more minute, Oleg Berezuk. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u61	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is to be done. But by November of the month, you and I have a lot of work to do. I want to give you just one example, an example that applies to hundreds or thousands of people living in Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky and Chernivsky. These are highlands and high - altitude schools over 600 meters [600 m] above. One, two, five, eight disciples. Indeed, there is a very high school road, costing between 10,000 and 40,000 dollars a year for one student. But it should be worth it. Because driving children two hours on one side and on the other side on the wrong road is also a crime. Thus, a formal approach and an accounting approach to education in Ukraine is unacceptable. High - ranking areas are not available today, but they will soon be deserted. Education should be everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as to what much work is yet to be done, I would like to emphasize. I was corrected by a representative of the committee, and I ask that you correct this for the transcript. The correct date is November 16th. And that's what I'm asking you to do in the stenogram. And now I'm putting the decision to the vote. Please take up your jobs and prepare for your decision, colleagues. So I'm putting to the vote the draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine" (number 4029a). The decree is proposed for adoption as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:00:30]] For 268. It's been decided. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. So we completed the block of regulations that were important for us to plan parliamentary hearings for the near term, they needed an immediate decision. I want to make this clear, we now have two drafts in the first reading, and then we have a chance to start a block on law enforcement, and hopefully we'll continue our active and effective work. So we move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of higher education institutions (scientific institutions) which have been moved from a temporarily occupied territory and from populated areas in whose territory the authorities of the State have temporarily failed to exercise their powers (number 4718). And I'm asking, colleagues, the national MPs to support the review of this law by means of a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, short-circuited procedure. Please support, please vote, vote. [[17:02:05]] For-183 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Rybčina Alexi Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u63	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I think it's really symbolic that we started the law-making work right out of this bill of a new session, because this bill is awaited by scientists, educators, students of Donbas and Crimea. The bill was drafted with the help of almost all factions present in Parliament and groups supported by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Occupied Territories, and supported by the Council of Rectors of Moved Higher Education Institutions, which brings together 18 scientific institutions and institutions. 18 colleges and 10 scientific institutions of Donbas and Crimea. I want to stop at the fact that we have a Crimean higher, a Tavrian higher, which is now based in Kiev, which has already recruited students and is about to begin the learning process. This question concerns almost 4,000 teachers, 35,000 students and about 100,000 members of their families, who are awaiting a positive signal from the State about support for higher education institutions and scientific institutions. What we're offering. We suggest that we remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers, and sometimes even absurd things that happen to the heights that the patriotics who left were transported, but for example, they pay. They are subject to the requirements of the courts, they have a debt for that electricity or heat that is currently being consumed by senior separatists in the area under control. We need to remove these barriers in order to free up resources intellectually, human heights so that they can improve the quality of education, because the quality of education in these colleges is important to us, to fight for students, for graduates, and perhaps to think about unifying where they do not work at certain heights. So I ask you to vote in favour of this bill because every voice is the voice of the patriots Donetska, Luhansk, Crimea who have left, who are waiting for this support from the state and every time they catch these signals from the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u64	Thank you. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u65	They catch the positive signals, and what happens to them, what the state offers them, they're competitive themselves. And I'm asking you to get rid of excessive bureaucracy so that they can develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. The first Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Alexander Spiowakovsky, is given for the report. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important Bill 48. 4718, the bill is important in relation to the attitude of those higher institutions in Ukraine (this is the Lugansk region, Donetsk and Crimea) to address the issue of their status here as displaced highlands in Ukraine. It's actually the patriots who support the statehood of Ukraine, who came here, who came with teachers without a material or technical base, but they brought the students. And, dear colleagues, the issues here are settled. First, it's a matter of a material and technical base, a question of a state-of-the-art census, it's a matter of settling those agreements that they had and for which they shouldn't answer, because today the pseudouniversities that remain in occupied territory are actually using these agreements. So this is a set of issues that we need to address in order to preserve the potential of higher education that was in Lugansk, Donetsk and Crimea. That is why the Committee on Science and Education unanimously voted in favour of the bill, and we propose to vote in favour of it in general. And to vote in favour of a reduced procedure for a second reading so that we can finally resolve the issue and resolve the issues of the activities of the higher education institutions that are being moved from the temporarily occupied territory to the territory of Ukraine at the end of September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u68	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Singerkowski. Please, according to the Rules, we now have a record of factions, two fors, two againsts. Please sign up. Sergey Lechchenko, please come to the floor. He passes the word to Svetlana Zlatchuk, "Peter Dustock's Block." Please, Mrs. Svetlana. Lighten up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm alone as co-author of this bill, too, and I'd like to ask the national MPs to support it. Everyone in the Luhansk and Donetsk region who visited the displaced universities is well aware that they remained in the Ukrainian State, and they moved to the Ukrainian territory because of the initiative of our teachers, our professors, our students, who became patriots, who very often left their families, left their property in occupied territory, and moved to our territory. And they began to rebuild these universities from scratch very often, to rebuild the curriculum, to teach our students, to rebuild the material and technology base. It's quite obvious that it was very often in rooms that weren't even suitable for students to study there. But these were the only possible conditions in which these universities could be preserved as Ukrainian. So our law provides for the establishment and the establishment of a material and technical base, including the facilitation of administration, administrative processes, so that these universities will continue to work in this area. Professors, teachers are waiting for our support. I'm asking you to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. Please, Taras Kremen of the People's Front, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill. Besides being supported by our Education and Science Profile Committee, I think we need to create a level of rights for higher education institutions moved from temporarily occupied territory. This applies not only to the basic profile of their activities but also to land issues related to fiscal compliance, and so forth. I don't think there's any doubt in this room. Obviously, we've noticed how we've created the necessary conditions for our students to enter Ukrainian universities from temporarily occupied territories or in the territory of Donetsk, Lugansk regions of Ukraine under control. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. If any questions arise, we are willing to discuss them in the working order with the participation of all interested ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Taras. Please, from the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask for clarification in the rapporteur, because what we have heard is what the rapporteur said he's asking for the support of this bill as a whole. I want to emphasize that the opposition bloc political party, our faction, will support this law on the basis. But he cannot be voted today in general, for he needs to make changes to a number of laws while preparing him for second reading. So I would very much like to clarify this position and we will vote in favour of this bill as a basis for supporting people, allowing these people to set standards for teaching students so that they can teach children so that we can have a good youth and get people to pay decent wages and to be able to raise and feed their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u75	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The Radical Party, of course, supports this bill. Also, our support really needs teachers, scientists, patriots, who have remained faithful to the country, who have not remained in occupied territories and, accordingly, we need to take care of their status, and so on, as proposed by my colleague Rybchin in this bill. But in addition to the support of scientists and institutions that have emerged from occupied territories, we need to talk about how to liberate occupied territories. And actually, one of the main elements that we see is the support of the peoples of Moscow, the support of the nations that are not opposed to Moscow for the first decade. Today is the day of independence of the Republic of Iceland. And I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome our Chechen brothers on this date, because they've always been on the front lines of fighting the Moscow occupying. I would like to remind you that since the first days of the war with Russia, our Chechen brothers have come to our aid. This is also the peacekeeping battalion of the name of Johar Dudajev, the first commander of whose brigade general, the Chechen Armed Forces, Isa Munayev, died in battles under Debaltsovo. These are other Chechens. That's why Chechnya's glory! Glory to the free Caucasus!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. During the discussion, suggestions were made to support the procedure for preparing for the second reading by means of a simplified procedure. So first I'm going to put the vote on the ground and then I'm going to propose a quick review. And, dear fellows, I ask you to take up your jobs, prepare for your decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of higher education institutions (scientific institutions) that have been moved from the temporarily occupied territory and from the settlements in the territory of which the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers, number 4718 on the basis. Who supports this decision, please vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote. [[17:14:35]] For 242 Decision taken. Colleagues, I now put to the vote the proposal to consider the second reading under a reduced procedure. Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:15:06]] For 207 The proposal did not receive support in the hall, so it will be considered in full procedure. Congratulations to the authors, welcome to the committee, wish you a fruitful second reading. Colleagues, next. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for ensuring equal rights of military personnel to financial security), No. 4878. And I'm also proposing that we consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Short-term procedure, 4878. Please vote. [[17:16:08]] For-183 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please, the camera is still in my proper position in the paperwork. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, this bill deals with a very important topic for many of us about the families of the hostages. And that's why I'm asking for your special attention. Let's start with the numbers. Today, according to the Ukrainian Security Service, 115 Ukrainian citizens remain in hostages in occupied areas, nearly half of whom are military personnel. According to our legislation, families of military personnel receive material provisions. But it is not fair that today the members of the families of the hostages receive money in the size of the military officer’s day of capture or hostage. Obviously, this is not fair because there are boys among these hostages who have been in captivity for almost two years. And it's obvious that the task of the state to free them all to be with their families. Today, however, our task is to help families, wives, mothers, and children who are also fighting for their husbands ’ release, and it is not easy for them to do so. We suggest that this rule, in fact, should apply to the families of the hostages, that it should not be extended to those military personnel who voluntarily surrender or voluntarily abandon military forces, or that it should be deserted from the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And that is, today we have to support the real family of heroes. And I'm asking you very much, too, my dear colleagues, that we today support this bill not only on the basis of the whole but also on the basis of it. And they put it under the transcript to take effect, not on January 1st, but on the day it was signed. Because, God forbid, that we release the families until January 1st, and the families to receive the support of the session room today. And thank you all for supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The co - report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, representing the committee, John Vinnik. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, this is an important bill, it regulates the social protection of military personnel and members of their families. But you have to take it from the other side. Because the proper social security of a soldier, a Ukrainian soldier, is an increase, an increase in the Ukrainian army, an increase in Ukrainian defence, and the resilience of the Ukrainian army. Because when a fighter goes into battle and realizes that nothing has happened to him, his family will be protected, of course, that increases the resilience and resilience of the Ukrainian army. This bill was submitted by our colleagues Heratchenko, Ionova, Friz, Irina Lucenko. It actually regulates what the norm is, refines some of the points. Indeed, money for hostages, for captives, for temporarily interned in neutral states, so - called neutral states, is being preserved by individuals today. But the financial security has been significantly increased during the current year, and the bill states that if the money is increased, so should the family’s compensation for the period when the military officer is in captivity. There is also a very important rule that money can be provided not only to a wife but, for example, to a child or a full - grown child or caregiver, even if a wife, for example, does not. This is also an extremely important regulatory norm. We realize that bureaucracy exists in the state and sometimes needs to be done. So all of these questions are settled by this project. And in fact, today, on the first day of the Supreme Council's work, our autumn session, we are voting on an important project. In fact, I agree on behalf of the committee that we should vote on it as a basis and in general with the amendment that it should act not on January 1st, but today, right now. So let's get together and find some votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna from the Radical Party Mrs. Oksano, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u81	Korchinska Oksana, faction of the Radical Party. No doubt our faction supports this bill. I would like to ask only the authors and the parliament that, in principle, when he is voted on, he is convinced, and in the second reading, that the legal acts are drawn up extremely quickly. So that things don't happen the way they did this year. We have with you the children of our dead military personnel, who, under the basic law, exactly the social and legal protection of military personnel, were supposed to be outside the contest to enter the Union. Unfortunately, our Ministry of Education was in massive violation. And our children had to join these bonds of our fallen heroes by hand. Therefore, it is important that when we adopt laws, we control them until the last introduction, so that all our fighters, all our families of those boys who are captive, get all the money they own and owe them. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to our heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u82	Heroic glory! Timoshenko Yuri, "The People's Front" is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u83	The People's Front clearly supports and asks all the decent people in this room without considering giving due credit to our frontier heroes and supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u84	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u85	I have questions for the drafters. Who will determine whether they willingly surrendered? Some committees need to be drawn up, for example, if they are courts, the courts, we understand, will be Donetsk, Lugansk, there will be some booths sitting there, that the judges are prosecutors. Who Will Judge? Who will determine that? So it's only in the first reading. And the developers, please, I'm willing to join in the development, between the first and the second readings to develop or create a commission, or some body to regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u86	Thank you. I'll give you a brief answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u87	Please, Irina Heratschenko will give me a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, this is what this 9th paragraph of the law now sounds like, that the money is not extended to military personnel who voluntarily surrendered. And that's what the D.A. is setting up. And in fact, as a human being, who is aware of this subject, I want to tell you that among our military personnel who are on this hostage list today, 99 percent of their families will get the money they need. So it's in theory that we're setting this important standard. I suggest we vote on the basis today and on the whole, then the change is better, the families can't wait. We need to support those families that have been waiting almost two years for their boys today. We have to release them, and today we have to protect them socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will give the floor to a representative of the state. But I want to let you know. Yeah, well, then, I'm sorry, since Irina Lucenko's deputies, Peter Dustenk's Block. And, dear fellows, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. One minute, Irina Lucenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I think we should support our colleague Irina Heratschenko and vote in favour of this bill, both in the first reading and in general. Remember, these guys are real heroes, they've actually been fighting for the Fatherland for two years. They do not give in to provocations, they do not give up to the enemy, they do not give up in processing and indulging. Their families do not give in to any hysterics or provocations. I think this bill deserves to be supported in its entirety. Thank you. And all the other questions asked by our colleagues can be settled by means of regulations. It's all settled. We have 115 of these. Please support the hall, enter their position. They're real heroes. Both our warriors and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u91	Please, the representative of Minnesota. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u92	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We also propose the adoption of this law as a whole. But let's take part two and part six into account in section one of the project, redefinition, more clearly worded. In particular, put part two in the next line. "Number six. Money and other forms of security are kept behind prisoners of war, or hostages, as well as interned in neutral states or unaccounted for. The family of the designated military personnel is paid monthly cash, including additional and other forms of money in the amount of money set up by the military on the day of his capture, or hostage, internment in neutral states, or disappearance without news, taking into account the change in service of years and the financial security standards. ” Paragraph 6 of this chapter is inserted in the next line. "In the event of an index of the financial security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other armed forces established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, military formations and law enforcement agencies, the financial security of members of families of military personnel captured in captivity or hostages, as well as interned in neutral states or missing persons, shall be paid with such indexation." Thank you. Let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there general agreement, or are there questionable questions about the bill? Can we vote? Colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision. I'm going to put it to the vote so that we can accept it with the amendment that we've made since the rostrum, the author of the Irina Heraszczenko bill, the representative of the Winnick committee, with the fact that it's going into effect since the publication, not on January 1. I will put this amendment to the vote. So let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I can't hear anything from this distance when you're yelling, come up, say it. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (number 4878), as amended by the author of the bill Irina Heratchenko and the representative of the committee Winnik, on the basis of and in general. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:29:11]] For 237 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee on quality work. And now, colleagues, we have the opportunity to move on to our cluster of law enforcement issues. These bills are in the second reading, but the law is few. And, with your permission, let's start working on those bills so that we can get their maximum number to discuss and make a decision. The first one standing in order of the day. The first one in the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (to improve the order of application to the condemned measures of encouragement and attraction) (number 2251a). The committee appointed the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Miroznick Jury Romanović as rapporteur for these bills. Welcome, Mr. Yuri, to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u94	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! We have a package of laws in which we take substantial steps to humanize the penitentiary system. We only have half an hour. Many of you know that each faction is represented in our interfractional task force, which we created on the basis of a profile committee. I have the honour to report on the results of our joint work, which has also been joined by representatives of international organizations, the Council of Europe and defenders, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, this is our joint work. That's why I'd like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to get us through all these bills in a very dynamic way. Let's start with 2251. The very name, she's a speaker. I can say that improvements in the procedures for applying the condemned incentives and withdrawals have been processed by the committee, 48 amendments and suggestions have been processed. These include editorially and in part 27 and complete. And you're actually asked to support them. The only thing I'm calling you to do is take the following additions into account. First part of the first article. I'm sounding under the stenogram. Part one of the first article 131 of the CCW of Ukraine is to be edited as follows: 1. The purpose of the incentive measures is to have a educational influence on those to whom these measures are applied on the basis of an objective assessment of their compliance with the rules of conduct established by the Code and the rules of the internal order of the colony, as well as compliance with the rules of employment and safety of work. 2. In the amendments to part eight of article 131 of the KPC, the draft sentence is the first sentence, paragraph eight: "The colony's administration is obliged to conduct quarterly assessments of the conduct of the person, its observance of the rules of conduct laid down in the Code and the rules of the internal order of the colony, and its compliance with the rules of employment and safety of work, and to make a reasoned decision on the appropriateness and irrelevance of the application of the person who is being punished in the form of deprivation of the will of encouragement. 3. From the text of the new edition of article 132 KPC, delete the words "removal of additional rights". 4. In part seven of article 134, KPC Ukraine replace the word "disciplined" with the word "money". 5. Part one of the first article 135 of the KPC in the drafting of the project is supplemented by two sentences: "Disciplinary commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u95	How long, Mr. Yuri? A minute? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u96	Part of the first article 135 of the KPC in the project is completed by two sentences of this content. The disciplinary commission of the enforcement agency operates on a permanent basis. A disciplinary committee meeting is valid if more than half of the members of the disciplinary commission are present. In addition, in part seven, after the word "decision," delete the word "disciplined commission" and add the words "to attract the disciplinary responsibility of the person serving the sentence." Dear colleagues, given these stenograms of proposals, I ask the Supreme Council to support Bill 2251a as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u97	Thank you. Please prepare the authors of the amendments to work. And we're starting with the amendments that were rejected. 2 Amendment, National Deputy Nemirowski. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 4th, Miroshnichenko. Does Mr. Yuri insist? Don't insist. 6th, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 7th, Yuri Lewchenko. Don't insist. 8th, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u98	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u99	9th, Miroshnichenko. Doesn't he insist again? 11th, 12th, Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 13th, Nemirowski. 14th, Levenchenko. He insists, doesn't he? Please, one minute, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u100	Thank you. Well, actually, I don't specifically insist on this amendment because most of my amendments were essentially taken into account. I'd just like to ask the reporter. Tell me, please, your second reading bill has been in the agenda for many months now, I've been reading all the time, I don't understand, but what has been bothering you this whole time is this amendment that you just voiced, to accept on the committee, to be before us in writing, and not to have to listen again, and then not to know what it will be like in the bill, what it will look like. I'm from. I'm sorry, I refuse to understand these. Such an approach to legal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The thing is, it's not my ghost. We met several times over the quality of the laws, worked together, considered, watched, balanced. But we do have some things that overlap with legislative initiatives. Do you understand? And I'm going to continue to suggest that we agree on the whole package of legislative initiatives among ourselves so that some things can be transferred from one text to another. So it's not a committee failure, it's just a job for them all to agree on each other, the whole package of laws. Thank you. But I thank you very much for your active participation in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And the next 17th. You don't insist, do you? No, it's not. Twenty-one, no insistence. 23rd National Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. 28th, Miroshnichenko doesn't insist. 30th. Don't insist. Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. 31st Lensky. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 37th, Miroshnichenko, don't insist. 38th, Miroshnichenko, don't insist. Dear colleagues, this is how we have spoken all the amendments. Do we have a willingness to vote? Is it? Colleagues, yes? Then I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, our colleagues are approaching the hall one by one and friendly columns. Just a minute. Yes, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (to improve the order of application to the condemned measures of encouragement and seduction) (number 2251a). It is suggested that we accept it in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. [[17:38:47]] For 232 Decision taken. Congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee with the quality work that has been done. Next in order of day 2252a, yes, 52a. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Miroshnick Jury Romanovic. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will report very briefly. The title of the bill itself speaks of amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (for humanizing the order and conditions of execution). In fact, this package of bills is a real reform that the Supreme Council can be proud of today. Worked together, I emphasize once again, it's not just a group of authors. These are also public organizations, experts, authorized by human rights, each faction has delegated to the working group of its representatives. So we can actually be proud of these bills. In this bill, I would also like to propose, under the transcript, article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, to exclude the bill, because this same article is more effective in Bill 2490, which we will now consider with you. And so we're those bills that we've prepared qualitatively, but that they don't duplicate each other. So under the transcript, I said, and I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole, as proposed by the committee. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to see the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u104	Please turn it on. Please, 30 seconds, Mr. Yuri. Would you like to finish, Mr. Yuri?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u105	Yes, dear colleagues, I have invited, I will finish my speech, I have invited the Supreme Council to support this bill as a whole as a committee. But the first deputy chairman of the committee wants to speak. I'm asking you to give him a word, too, please. Mr. Igor!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u106	Colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u107	Give the first deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u108	We will, but first, we will follow through on the amendments. And I'll give you one minute for the vote. First deputy to this subcommittee. But first, we'll go through all the adjustments. So, colleagues. Two o'clock, Nemirowski. Don't insist. Miroshenko. Don't insist. 6th, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 7th, Levenchenko. He insists. Yeah? Please, Mr. Yuri, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u109	Thank you. No, it's not. I just wanted to explain. In fact, about what was said earlier. It is interesting that this amendment that I have proposed has been transferred to Bill 2253a. So it's included in this bill, and it's excluded from this bill. So in this particular bill, I don't insist. But of course, again, I'm going to the committee and the rapporteur, so that something more organized is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u110	Thank you. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. The author does not insist. 11th. Don't insist. 13th, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 14th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 14th. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u111	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I insist on this amendment, it was not counted. The point is that the project's proposal for a new edition of the article, the editions of part four of article 94 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which states that "in the area of enhanced control are held by convicted persons, who systematically (two or more times) commit malicious violations, in an established order of punishment that threatens security. The defendants or other persons," I think, are questionable. Because in this way the structural area of the correctional institution, the so - called intensive control area, is essentially transformed into something similar to a carcase, a facility that has one of the types of contractions that applies to the convicts. So that's essentially how this standard creates another kind of discipline, one type of punishment. So I suggest we rule out the appropriate innovation. And this is exactly what my amendment is about to rule out these innovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u112	Please comment, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, we've actually worked on every amendment, including this one, at our subcommittee and working group meeting. All the circumstances were considered and it was concluded that in this case it was not specifically appropriate to take account of the amendment, since it did not meet the standards that the bill was actually implementing. While the idea itself is rational, we have decided not to consider the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u114	Thank you. As I understand it, Mr. Yuri insists on voting. And I'm putting to the vote amendment number 14 of National MP Yuri Lewchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[17:44:38]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 17-a, no insistence. 23rd, Levenchenko. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on Lechchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u115	Thank you, thank you. Well, that's an amendment. Oh, thank you. This amendment refers to a question that may seem trivial in the background of everything that is going on in the country. But considering that every condemned person should be equal before the law, especially when convicted persons are in prison, I believe that this amendment is important in the context of the bill. The fact is that article 107, paragraph 19, of the current KPC provides that the condemned are prohibited from holding animals. But in the amendments to this bill, it's proposed to impose a ban on keeping animals, and I quote, "without permission from the administration." That is, in some cases, the administration of an appropriate correctional facility may somehow allow someone to hold an animal. There is a question, and why can someone do it, and someone can't do it any more. That is, although the issue may seem trivial, it directly violates the equality of all those condemned. So I still ask you to cancel this innovation and leave the old norm when everyone is forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u116	Mr. Yuri, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u117	Mr. Yuri, I completely agree with the logic you express. But I assure you that those balanced texts that we've issued are consistent not only with the content of the bill, but also with the norms and standards that the Council of Europe has proposed to us. We actually analyzed it together. And that's why this is considered balanced and balanced by most experts. So with all due respect. You know, we've taken many of your amendments, and we've taken the initiative into account, well, in this case, we haven't counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u118	Thank you. Mr. Yuri insists on voting. That is why I am voting on the amendment of 23 People’s Deputies of Lechchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[17:47:03]] For 128 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, with your permission, first of all, I would like to inform you that I am continuing my meetings under my right to go back to 18.15. And I very much invite colleagues that we have been working very dynamicly for less than half an hour. It's a block of legislation that reinforces each other, that solves a complex, systemic problem. I would urge both the committee's representative and the deputies to be as concise as possible, to work as productively as possible so that we can get through this block, at least four more bills, there were little amendments. I call on all my colleagues to be active. So we keep going. 31st Lensky. Don't insist. In one minute there will be a vote and I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. 34th. Don't insist. 35th. Don't insist. 38th. The author is Miroshnichenko Yuri, not insisting. So, colleagues, we can move on to making decisions. And I'm voting on the proposal to accept making changes before. Excuse me, one more minute, Mosiyczuk. And in the meantime, I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall. Turn on the microphone. Musiczuk. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u119	Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party of Oleg Lachka We are, of course, supporting all the bills aimed at reforming the Penitentiary Service, and I have personally promoted them, supported them, and Mr. Yuri knows that. But it looks like we're "with water, we're spilling the baby" because what's going on in the reformation is now, an hour ago, published the result of a competition for the director of the health care service. And as a result of the competition, the person who worked as a substitute for this administration, the Cavernoga, who beat people at Yanukovich, who was accused of being a defender. And if this reform isn't under control, all we're doing right now is just "money in the wind" like in the same movie. We're reforming now, and they're doing the most dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u120	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u121	So I call on the committee's leadership, and tomorrow I will insist, to call on the deputy minister in charge of reform. And let them tell us how they're destroying the operational service in the penitentiary system that they're assigned to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u122	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (for humanizing the order and conditions of execution) (number 2252a) in the second reading and in general. If you support this proposal, please vote on your colleagues. Please vote. [[17:50:45.]] For 235 The law is passed. Decision taken. We move on to the next draft law, this is the draft law amending article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (to improve the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished for their place of residence or the place of permanent residence of relatives) (number 2253a). Please invite Yuri Miroshnicka to the report and ask that you be as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u123	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you very much. In fact, the law itself speaks of itself so that a prisoner may be punished or not far from where he lives or where his relatives live. It's obvious that humanization and its application of European standards in this direction are humanizing, and so we did it with our colleagues from the expert organizations, the Council of Europe. And our committee received five suggestions, including three or two amendments, unfortunately not included. But notice, including some of my adjustments, I'm here to address Yuri Lewchenk, and my amendments have declined. So we have to talk and care about the quality of the laws, because it's our joint work. So actually, I'm asking you not to be offended by those colleagues who. their proposals are not supported, at least, by those that are not supported. And that's the only thing I'm talking about. What we need to pay attention to is that we're not proposing any further changes here. We propose that in that paper, which is proposed in the committee table, this bill should be voted on as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee and all those experts who are working towards reforming the penitentiary system. Don't do that. This is the first package of documents that does not apply directly to the organizational structure. We're talking about the fires that the European Committee has been telling us about to prevent torture. So that's what there's nothing to talk about. We're removing these things in this package of laws. We will continue to take into account the mistakes that our deputy, the first deputy head of the committee of Igor Mosiyczuk, is paying attention to, and we will not allow these mistakes to discredit the reform itself at the stage of the implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u124	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, I'm only asking you to take into account space and time: the longer we speak, the less chance we have of adopting legislation. When I'm asking briefly, I'm out of efficiency. We only have two amendments. The vote is in one minute. I ask my fellow members to return to the hall, prepare for the decision-making process, my colleague. So 1-a, Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. Five o'clock, Lensky. Don't insist. We've completed our discussion of the draft law. And I'm asking you to prepare for the decision, to go into the hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code (to improve the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished for their place of residence before the conviction or residence of their relatives) (number 2253 (a) in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:54:52]] For 238. The law is passed. Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm very insistent. We have a chance to get through the entire block in the next 15 minutes. I'm asking you to keep your distance, colleagues, let's work it out. Those 10-15 minutes, they're important to the whole system reform. We're moving on to the next draft of the law. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the humanization of the criminal responsibility of women (number 2254a). Mr. Yuri, please report. It's laconic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u125	Honorable colleagues, humanizing the criminal responsibility of women. In fact, this law tells us that according to the European standards that exist, in our country we have to abolish the permanent imprisonment of women. This is not just about the article, but it is about the physiology of women. That's why I think we also need to support the initiative and the drafters of the bill and the standards that work in Europe. The only thing I'm calling you to do is consider. add a new entry to the End position. Under the stenogram. First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. And the second. Women sentenced to eternal deprivation of liberty who, at the time of their taking up the law, actually took place in the institution of punishment. The execution of sentences no less than 15 years of deprivation of liberty may be timely. Maybe it's a key word. Timely release from punishment in the form of eternal imprisonment. Dear colleagues, of course, this will be decided by the court, but the very content of this bill, I think, should be supported by all our deputies. There are 8 proposals, 4 of which are included and 4 do not meet the objective of the project, so they are not included. Please put to the vote the Head of the Supreme Council and support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u126	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. We're moving on to the amendments. 1-a, don't insist on the author. Two o'clock, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 3rd, Levenchenko. Don't insist. And 8th, Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. Mr. Yuri insists. Come on, 4th, Yuri Lewchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u127	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The society, the fact is that the Constitution of Ukraine has just established the possibility of, say, such a separate treatment of certain categories of women, but only when it comes to pregnant women and mothers. So I propose that we leave the rule in the current legislation that this should apply to women who were pregnant during the commission of a crime or at the time of the verdict. Because what's proposed in this bill is to make sure that all of us, I stress, are all women, all of us without exception women, regardless of what crime they've committed, don't get forever deprived of their will. And I'm just giving you an example. For example, if a woman commits a deliberate murder of two or more persons for purchase and with particular cruelty, yes, she will not hold a life sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u128	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u129	And when, and a man, a man will be in prison for life, he will be in the clutches of "sufficiently committed murder under the presence of at least one aggravating circumstance." That is, absolute inequality. Excuse me, this is the law in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u130	Mr. Yuri, I understand the general idea. Is that right? Mr. Yuri, comment. Mr. Yuri, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u131	Sir. Give it to me. Mr. Yuri, I will continue your opinion so that we can understand what you mean. In fact, Yuri Lewchenko speaks of the inequality in the articles of a man who under the same circumstances has a more severe punishment and a woman. We didn't come out of the fact that we wanted to give some preference to women from the point of view of sex. It's about the characteristics of female physiology, and it's about the standards that take into account and operate in Europe. It's a question of humanization. Not much, Mr. Yuri, I'll tell you what we're going to talk about improving this mechanism and for men. So that after 15 years, there will be no permanent imprisonment. We have some initiatives on the committee that we're going to consider. Today, the agreement was about women. And we suggested that we change that right now. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, on this issue, a discussion arose. Please, one minute, Olena Sotnik. Yes. Please finish, 30 seconds Lechchenko. One minute, Timoshenko. Colleagues, I'll give three men a speech, and we'll go to the vote. I ask Lechchenka to finish her opinion first 30 seconds. Then there's the Captain. Please. Then there's Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u133	Thank you. I still urge all the national deputies who are still sitting here, and all our listeners and viewers, the Ukrainian people, to think about what is being proposed. It is suggested that half the Ukrainian people receive much easier punishment for the same crimes than the other half. What do you suggest? The Constitution of Ukraine clearly allows, clearly, when a woman is pregnant, or a mother, to set mitigating circumstances in such cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u134	Olena Stotnik, please, one minute. Please let all the deputies finish, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! I'm asking Mr. Merchants, I've given him, I need to clarify the final position, they were misinterpreted. And we're going to have the risk that those who now have a sentence but who have spent, for example, three or four years and will be released, and those who have already served 15 may have been released. We need to bring the final position into line and give clear criteria. Only those women who have been sentenced to 15 years of imprisonment for life today will be able to obtain such humanization, the possibility of release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u136	Mr. Yuri, you'll comment upon it. It's Yuri Timoshenko, one minute. Oleg Easy, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u137	Friends! It's much easier in nature. I've never seen a male dog bite a female dog in my entire life if that female didn't bite and bite it. What are we, worse?Oh, my God! A real man is unworthy and unworthy of fighting women! And in our room, I hope, there is a person who has a sad personal experience in this matter. Julia Volodymyrna, if you are in the hall, say your word and explain it to men how to behave and how to respond to such suggestions. Please, all of you, back up in one piece. Men, gentlemen, or anyone! Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u138	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u139	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, let's remember how everyone voted in favour of the so-called "Savchenko law." As a result of this law, 1,200 murderers were released, half of them being sent back to prison after committing serious crimes. We do not object to humanizing punishment, but do not exhale the child along with water. We can't, when you're telling, let's not fight a woman, but we know stories when a woman's been poisoning her children, but famous stories, when women were killing their children's husbands. Is it to fight, or is it to restore justice? When people commit crimes, when they kill, it doesn't matter, it's a man or a woman, you have no right to take your neighbor's life. And we can't do it humanizingly to have a society as a whole. They attack today, they kill our people, they rob pensioners because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u140	Mr. Yuri, please comment for a minute, and let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to speak to my countryman, Oleg Light. I understand your pain. Not enough, some of our colleagues are demanding a return to the death penalty. Some try harder to punish for terrible, terrible crimes. But if we look at the world’s dawn, evil will not be conquered. And they're all going in the direction of humanization. It is not enough that the amendments we are currently discussing do not provide for the automatic release of these women. This will take place on the basis of a court decision. But the institution itself is being annulled. So, dear colleagues, once again, I want to thank Olenia Stotnik and I want to read under the transcript the additions to the Transitional Positions that are actually working on the committee. First point. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. And the other one. Women who, at the time of the adoption of this law, are deprived for life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u142	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u143	Second item. Women who, at the time of the adoption of this law, are deprived of their liberty for life may be released for a period of time from punishment under the conditions of actual punishment of not less than 15 years of punishment and in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty." That's what our colleague, Helen Stotnik, has pointed out, is very active and I'm very grateful to her for not being a member of our committee, but she actively represents and I think she can be proud not only of the Supreme Council, but also of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u144	Thank you. Colleagues, a 30 - second replica, The Light Name was mentioned. Please, 30 seconds, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u145	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear colleagues who forgot, I recall that Russian journalist Paul Sheremet was killed by a woman who planted explosives in his car. Perhaps let us relieve her of her responsibility for this. I'm not going to give a lot of other examples, I'm going to point out again: there's a huge crime scene in Ukraine today. Take a look at the statistics that are classified: Packs and bags are being ripped out of people’s food bags and bags every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u146	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, we can't make a decision in the hall, but I have to finish the procedure. I'll put Lechchenk's proposal to the vote. Then I will suggest that we reunite the hall, if not for the second reading, so that we can rework it. In one minute, there will be a decision to be made, please come into the hall, now Irina Lucenko - one minute. And I'd like the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Turn on Irina Lucenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u147	I'm talking to Oleg Láska: Mr. Oleg, we've worked with you literally a couple of times on legislation on the Istanbul Convention, prevention of domestic violence. In the context of this, I want to give you one single example. I have Maria Ionova sitting next to me, who joins a group of clemency experts with the President of Ukraine. Now, when we were working on the Istanbul convention with us, Judge Taran of the Supreme Court was working with us, and she was telling this story eight times to her when she was working as a simple judge, bringing in a man who beat up women and children. For eight years in a row, she gave him fines or jobs that were appropriate, and nine times they brought in a woman who had stabbed her husband. So all the actions that have taken all these eight years have had no basis, had no result, a woman in despair, in a state of impact stabbed her husband, the result of life imprisonment. There are so many such stories. I can tell you another story.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u148	Colleagues, Mrs. Irina, Mr. Oleg, Mr. Yuri, we can exchange replicas five more times and lose any chance, I emphasise, of any chance that we might at least send him back for a second reading, and for the next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u149	Maybe he'll pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u150	In which only one amendment could be accepted. Mr. Oleg, Mrs. Irina, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Oleg’s reply had already been given. Please, Mr. Oleg. She's not finished. Dear colleagues, we're waiting for the end of the discussion, can I count on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u151	We have two more laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u152	Colleagues, I'll deal with the hall, we've got three now. four who wish to speak. Do we have a word? I'm asking very briefly for 10 seconds. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the whole thing? For the second reading. "self-help," do you support a completely second reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, the others again! And you're just like the second reading again? For the second one again, right? Please, in general? One minute, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u153	Irina Stepanovna, in a state of impact when a person commits a crime, is not put on life imprisonment. The only person who gets life imprisonment is someone who commits an intentional crime. If you had a legal education, you would know that. The Attorney General can tell you. Another example. [[Applause]] Another example: In Donbas, one of the known terrorists, a sniper who killed more than a dozen of our military personnel, a woman, let us release her from her responsibilities! Let's talk about crimes. If these are willful crimes, if they are crimes that rob a person's life, no matter who does it, a man or a woman, this person has to be responsible. I want to draw attention to the room again: as a result of our vote, 1,200 murderers were released. Again, half of them went to prison. If one of you had been killed, would you have released them tomorrow or not? So take it for granted!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u154	I'll give my word to Mrs. Irina. But I want to make very clear when there's a parliamentary debate, the humiliation of the opponent in this debate is the last thing that can apply to both the MP and the man, that's my opinion. Mrs. Irina, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u155	Well, I think the discussion here is inappropriate because we don't have a block of this. But I would like to stress, your honorary colleagues, and what my colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko has said, all questions will be settled in court. There will be a special judge, we have prepared a law that says that such decisions will be made only by a court of law. It's not a choice of its own, it's not a position of its own, it's a woman, it's a man. Only the court will decide that, and who doesn't know it, is not the Mansion who entraped the colonel's pursuits, demanding the Volga in its own time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-06-m1.u156	Colleagues, I'm putting an end to this discussion. I'm putting an end to this discussion, colleagues, I'm sorry. We have two minutes left. I'm putting to the vote amendment number four of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[6:12:55]] For-140. The decision is not made. And now I'm going to step up and make my first offer. And I would like to ask the national deputies who have just left the hall to take their seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm putting to the vote first the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on the humanization of women's criminal responsibility) (No. 2254a) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[18:13:41]] For-152. Now, dear fellows, I'm going to make the next proposal for a second reading. I ask you to make the most of it so that we can make a decision. Please come into the hall and take your seats. I am voting on a proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on the humanisation of women's criminal responsibility) to send for a second reading. Bill No. 2254a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote for the second reading again, please vote, please support, colleagues, please. [[18:14:31]] For the 220. Colleagues, I can put it again, I can't get it, I can see I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I can put it back and vote. Colleagues, this is rereading the second reading. Anyone who has a discussion will be able to hold it on the committee. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, please don't screw up the bill, I've seen a number of people held up, please support this second reading again. I ask the honourable colleagues to vote in favour of the return to the vote of 2254a. I ask you to support the return to the vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:15:29]] For 221 Who didn't make it? The card didn't work. Society, friends, we're all interested in keeping the bill safe. I can see that I believe it, but I'm very much asking you to invite some more colleagues who are in the towers right now, please come into the hall. I'll put it again with your permission, but this will be the last time I put it back. Colleagues, please welcome to the hall of those who are in the towers. I'll do it again. Ready? So once again, I propose to return to the vote for 2254a, the draft Law. Please come in, get ready. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[18:16:39]] For 223 Three votes. Colleagues, please show me on the board. I'm asking you to show by factions on the board. I'll read it. 78 – "Block of Petra Poshenko", "National Front" – 57, "Block of Opposition" – 21, "Samo help" – 23, "Pradical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 18, "Papačina" – 7, "Rebirth" – 4, "Will of the People" – 4. Bill 2254a was rejected. I hope there will be a new bill that will be able to unify the hall. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you for the fruitful, constructive work of Parliament's first day. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
