ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please enter the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will begin our work. Please prepare to register. As always, at 10 a.m. on Friday we have an hour of questions to the government. I want to say separately that we had a two-day, two-way vote with you yesterday. In fact, they have fulfilled all the obligations associated with the introduction of a visa-free regime, which is really a very important step on the path of European integration and the ability of Ukrainians to get completely free movement by countries of Europe, a number of other Ukrainian laws, to settle the issue of auctions on land, payment. That's all the work we were able to do with you yesterday. But I want to emphasize that the crisis that we have today is not solved. And so we must immediately proceed or continue political consultations with all the political parties, the factions represented in Parliament, which were part of the coalition, in order to find a way out of the situation that has arisen. I think it's perfectly understandable for everyone. So we have time for consultations and time to offer society a clear, clear anti-crisis plan. I've been talking about this two weeks ago, and today I want to emphasize that we need a very clear plan to get out of this situation that our country is in today. Please prepare for registration, fellow members of the national parliament. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:07:15]] 311 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. At the beginning of the session, I want to make an appropriate announcement. According to this statement, I am reporting the cessation of the political party's participation in the coalition of the European Ukrainian MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation and the appropriate withdrawal of the signatures of members of this faction under a coalition agreement. There is the signature of the faction manager and the personal signature, a copy of the personal signatures of all members of the Self-Help faction in the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, but I think we're going to continue our political consultations and find the right way out of the situation. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. A year of questions to the government. In accordance with the plan, I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko. Paul Dmitrovitch, please, 15 minutes. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! Today there are 2 questions to the Ministry of Justice that have been very relevant and relevant to Ukrainian society. The first question concerns a block of visa-free laws voted by the Ukrainian Parliament yesterday. The second block of questions relates to the money that is in the area of business and real estate registration, which began to work on January 1st of the year. I'll start with the first question box. In fact, yesterday the Ukrainian Parliament made some very important decisions. And I want to thank every national MP who voted in favour of these truly historic laws, because yesterday was the last day that Ukraine had to adopt the few anti-corruption laws necessary to fulfil our obligations under the visa liberalisation plan. It's a block of laws related to the improvement of law enforcement in the field of confiscation and detention of property, it's a block of laws that deal with issues relating to the activities of the National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets, that new body that actually exists in all the countries of the European Union and that wasn't in Ukraine, and that body that will actually bring it in. and that new body that will really lead Ukraine to transparent rules for the search, management and implementation of confiscated and arrested property as part of criminal conduct. And the third block of laws that applied to the visa-free package is to improve the procedure for choosing a special prosecutor. Yesterday, you took away the unnecessary influences of the Attorney General that he had in law enforcement against candidates for the head of the Special Prosecutor's Office and his deputies. So once again, I want to thank you for those important decisions for the Ukrainian State, because, in fact, these laws need not the European Union, these laws need Ukrainian citizens, and these laws need an updated, new Ukrainian law enforcement system that can effectively use them to investigate, first of all, corruption crimes. The second block of questions that I'd like to inform you is more complex. And I want to remind everyone that last year, a group of national MPs -- about 30 national deputies -- together with the Ministry of Justice under the leadership of the Supreme Council, formed an appropriate working group that developed a package of new laws on business registration and real estate. Let me remind you what has been going on in Ukraine in recent years. There was a State Registration Service. This is the body that was actually the personification of domestic corruption, queues, bureaucracy, and the inability to register any rights by Ukrainian citizens without bribe and without problems. The Ministry of Justice made a decision early last year on the liquidation of the State Registration Service. And over the past year, we've carried out this reform. The essence of this reform and, in fact, the final outcome of this reform has been the adoption of a package of laws to reform state registration services. We've transferred all the authorizations without exception for the registration of business and real estate to the local authorities, the appropriate measures. Similarly, with authority, we have transferred more than one billion revenue to the budget of the Ministry of Justice, and are now headed to the budgets of small cities, villages, villages that provide adequate services to their citizens. So we gave these powers to Ukrainian notaries. These are the seven thousand Ukrainian notaries who from the first days of gaining the law began to provide quality business and real estate registration services. A little bit later, I'm going to give you specific statistics and the first results of these laws. And actually, from January 1st of this year, these laws are working. We have two news. One is positive, the other is not very good, because it takes your help, as it were, to get our local authorities more actively involved in these functions. Positive news: Seven thousand Ukrainian notaries from the first days of gaining the validity of these laws have been actively engaged in registration services. About half of all the registration services previously performed by the registration service and so - called old registrars were performed within two months by Ukrainian notaries. The second good news is that the Ministry of Justice is the body where you can apply the administrative authority to the register if it violates the law. I would like to point out that during the first two months of the new law, there is no complaint against Ukrainian notaries. They took on a great deal of authority. In fact, they are not financed from the Ukrainian budget because they are self - employed subjects. They bring 40 percent of all revenues from the provision of services to Ukrainian citizens into the Ukrainian budget. And they do, I'm sure, conscientiously comply with the requirements of the law, because no complaints in two months of work, because they've done over 100,000 registrations, say that the level is professional. The level of responsibility of the Ukrainian notaries is much higher than that of the old State registries who had previously worked in the Justice Ministry system. The second news -- and here I am addressing you as representatives of the Ukrainian electorate -- from January 1st, these powers should be taken away by the local authorities. I can tell you that local authorities do not actively assume authorizations and money for business and real estate registration. Although they have full motivation, the Ukrainian Parliament, together with the Ministry of Justice, has given them more than a billion dollars of money that they receive from administrative services. And these costs in the early days can come to local budgets. To date, only 15 local communities have accepted these functions, with rural, rural, and united communities being the ones that have not been obliged but have the right to do so and to provide services to Ukrainian citizens. So from this high rostrum, I'm going to the mayors of Ukrainian cities, to the heads of district government: by 30 April of this year, you need to take over all the business and real estate registration powers. Similarly, I call on Ukrainian citizens to ask for the local police officers you chose at the end of last year. April, I'm sorry. Ask your local paralegals, whom you chose at the end of last year, to take over the business and real estate registration authority and to provide you with quality services as residents of the relevant community. With these remittances passing the money, with those authorizations passing the simplified registration order, it goes through the fact that those 100 or 200 bracelets that a person pays for the registration of his apartment go into his local budget. And this money, in fact, you invest in your school, in your road, in your hospital, which is in the territory of the city or village. Therefore, I hope that representatives of local self - government will be more responsible to you in carrying out these obligations under the laws. We're having daily communication with them. What I'm saying is that the Ministry of Justice has decided to provide free training for local authorities, training in registering. Similarly, we are free of charge to register all local authorities that will provide business and real estate registration functions. So we've created all the simplified conditions for every local authority, for every measure, for every city council, so they can join this function and start providing quality services to their residents and getting money into the local budget. Therefore, requests to the National Deputies, especially the Majorities: Join the explanatory work, join the process of launching these services directly by local authorities. Ukrainian notaries -- I want to thank them in the same way from this rostrum -- are now being insured by local authorities because they are actively providing these services. But our local community, within the framework of decentralization philosophy, is empowered by the authorities of the state. Minust is the first authority to give such authority along with money. In the future, these will be new powers from other authorities that relate to the area of land resources that relate to the spheres of other services provided to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. And now it's a very important test for local government officials to pass this exam, to give them quality services, to provide comfort for every citizen of the city and village who chose them, who actually gave them a mandate -- to create quality conditions for the lives of their own and their families in a particular place. So I'm convinced that in this transit period, by April 30, all questions about the transfer of credentials will be settled. I also want to inform you about the innovations that have already been in place since January 1, 2016. Now the extraterritoriality principle is in place, which means that you can register any company in any notary all over Ukraine, regardless of where you've identified the place of registration. There is now the principle of a clearly defined list of documents in the law, which prohibits the registrar from refusing to register a particular item if the registrar requires an indefinite list of documents, as before. And now the main thing that we've done is to demonopolize and deburocratize these services, and that's actually the main security against corruption. Why not join your citizens who live in the territories? Notary bribes do not take. Similarly, local authorities should not take bribes. Because if they take bribes, they will be evaluated by their electorate and these voters will go to notaries who are honest and legally performing this function. So I think this is one of the most successful reforms that the Ukrainian government, the Ministry of Justice and the Ukrainian people's deputies carried out at the end of last year. And in closing, we set ourselves an ambitious goal. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Justice has waived these functions as non-State bodies and corruption, we focus our attention on the implementation of maximum online services. Last year we transferred some of the registration functions to the online business registration area. 2.5 million Ukrainians took advantage of free online services from the Ministry of Justice, 500,000 Ukrainian entrepreneurs were paid online services through government, parliament and the Ministry of Justice decisions last year. It's a company registration, it's getting relevant documents. This means that nearly 3 million Ukrainian entrepreneurs did not go to registration services that had already been eliminated, were not in line, and were not paid bribes. And these are the real results that can be presented to every Ukrainian today. Not to talk about any ephemeral reforms, but to talk about the concrete outcome achieved by the Ministry of Justice, Parliament, government, and all of us together as authorities united in good reform. So this year, we've put all services for online business registration in our priority, just like all services related to birth, marriage, changes of surname to be translated into the online regime. I can inform you that 20,000 Ukrainian families have benefited from the service of the Ministry of Justice to obtain a birth certificate at RAGS and to register an online marriage and order a suitable place and register. These are specific people who have not paid bribes that have used the European service without papers, without queues and without the will of government officials. That's why I'm talking to Ukrainian parliamentarians. The Ministry of Justice has set out a clear plan for the changes that we are planning to make this year in the area of improving real estate registration services, in the area of providing free legal assistance to Ukrainian citizens who do not have the ability to afford a paid lawyer, in the area of prison reform, which we have the Soviet system. Please, dear fellow national MPs, join our initiatives and make concrete changes that affect every Ukrainian. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The Minister of Justice spoke with information that was invited by national deputies. But the attention, I see, is maximum, yes. The minister, the minister of justice, spoke. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Inna Romanovna Sowsun You know that if there is. Please come in. A written request was made by the deputies. The questions will now be answered. Then 30 minutes to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Regrettably, yesterday and today, the minister of education and science, Sergey Flower, is on a mission in Kharkiv to meet with the directors of the long - planned district education authorities. So today, I will answer the questions asked by the national MPs instead of him. And hopefully, I can open up as many questions as possible that concern both the people's deputies and Ukrainian society in general. The first question that came to us from the People's Front faction is the question of quality and the purchase of textbooks. First thing to say. Of course, textbook problems are very complex and long - term. The first problem concerns the quality of textbooks. Children, their parents, are constantly complaining that textbooks are not interesting to children in the 20th century, that they are filled with anachronistic examples that have been torn away from modern life, and more so, based on methods and approaches that do not incentivize teaching, do not capture children’s attention. Of course, these problems have been accumulated for years. This was not a momentary problem. And today it's becoming more and more receptive because of the growing role of civil society, the voices of the parent community are becoming increasingly important. This question is of special importance. Of course, this is a question that we recognize and talk about that it takes a long time to solve this problem. In 15 years, systemic problems with the quality of textbooks were exacerbated by financial problems. Money from the State Budget was allocated for textbooks only at the end of the summer and only half of the amount needed. The second half of the textbook money was expected to be allocated from local budgets. In view of the need for tender procedures, the delivery of manuals was carried out at a late date of several months in December 2015. I want to point out that despite the forced delay in printing and delivering textbooks through transparent tendering procedures, despite the overall inflation and paper spending, we were able to save 80 million compared to what was planned. For example, on the basis of last year’s figures, it was planned that the 4th class textbook would cost 34 bracelets. After the trades, we went to 24.9 dollars, which is actually due to a transparent tender procedure, almost a third of the expected cost of the handbook, which is a positive one, especially in this economic situation that we are in. The saved 80 million were directed to the sites under an educational subsidy for the purchase of textbooks this year. In order to avoid problems with ordering textbooks in the 16th year and, above all, to improve the quality of textbooks that will go to school, a new position on textbook competition was approved in the 15th year. What major changes have been made in the competitive selection process? First, unlike all previous years, it will be possible not only for publishers, but also for individual authors, because they are allowed to submit manuals. This means that we're going to allow this to allow us to expand the list of authors who are involved in writing textbooks. Because it was a long time ago that a very limited number of authors had contracts, had contacts with publications, and they wrote, year after year, very similar textbooks. We hope that next year, this year, we'll be able to expand the circle of textbook authors. Secondly, separate requirements have been developed for experts to test textbooks. Because once again, there was a problem when experts were irresponsible about the evaluation of textbooks and again there were problems with the quality of textbooks. Thirdly, teachers and schools have been significantly expanded to choose textbooks. Directly, teachers will be able to determine which textbooks are the best, which textbooks they consider best to work with their students. On February 5, a competitive selection of textbooks was announced. The contest itself began on February 8. It is expected that the competition will be completed in May and that a tender for the purchase of textbooks will be announced immediately thereafter. Given that it takes two or three months for a tender to talk about that the eighth grade textbooks will be delivered to school in September. And I would also like to point out separately that the bill that was adopted on free textbooks was signed by the President, which means that we can talk about the tender announcement in May or early June, in order to ensure the timely delivery of textbooks in the 16th to 17th school year. The second very painful question raised by the people's deputies and society is the issue of professional and technical funding in the 16th year. The current data we've collected is talking about this. The state of the art has been fully funded in ten areas. That's the ten areas that completely shut down January of the month. Not funded. There is no funding at all for 31 of the 800 factories operating in the country. There are also 75 additional vocational and technical schools that have not been funded. You know that the Supreme Council has passed a law that has to settle this issue. The President's decision to sign this law is now pending. In addition, on February 4, the Cabinet of Ministers passed Decree 41 amending the Cabinet of Ministers Decree of September 16, 727, in order to channel 500 million from a stabilization grant to local budgets to cover shortages in the provision of vocational education. There was a meeting of the Budget Committee on Wednesday, where this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers was supported, and as soon as the decision was signed, the relevant committee would be directed to places to close it now. Provide funding where there were problems. Question three. It's very painful, very sensitive to society, the question of having a COD in the 16th year. I think you all remember that at the end of July, a week before the completion of the introductory campaign last year, an investigation was suddenly launched against the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment. All servers have been removed, all software that has at the moment created obstacles to the completion of the introductory company, which fortunately managed to solve successfully. But of course, it created a system of crisis in the Ukrainian Center for Quality Assessment of Education. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the CAP is rightly regarded as the most successful reform of Ukraine's independence. The work of the center, the security of the system, is used by society’s well-deserved trust. And the situation for September the situation in which the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment and the Ministry of Education and Science was completely unusual and very, very complex. And, of course, a lot of people have been saying, they've been saying, "You're not going to be able to do it in the 16th year." In addition, more complex systemic problems were raised in the Ukrainian center. First of all, what is worth talking about is that a very long time of work and conduct was underfunded. In fact, funding for the direct implementation of the TNW was not financed, computer upgrades were not financed, and adequate payments were made to the employees of the Ukrainian Centre. This, of course, caused a crisis system at the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education. What have we done with the new leadership of the Ukrainian Center? I want to point out that the entire management of the Ukrainian Centre has been changed, the Director has been changed, three deputies have been changed at the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education, which took place in 2016. First of all, last fall, a decision was taken and amendments were made to the State Budget Act, adopted by a separate Cabinet Order to allocate an additional 10 million dollars to ensure the work of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education. What was the result of the funds that were made available on time at the end of last year? In the first place, a material and technical base of Ukrainian regional centres for quality assessment of education was updated. Again, it hasn't actually been updated in years, in fact most of the equipment was purchased in 2008-2009 when external independent evaluation was launched. And, of course, the situation for 2015 needed a very serious update. The other problems were the military-political situation in the country. In fact, 2 regional centres were lost: the Donetsk Regional Centre for Quality Assessment and the Crimean Regional Centre for Quality Assessment of Education, which for obvious reasons ceased their work, and we were forced to carry on in fact, and in fact from scratch to create regional centres in Slovenia. This is the Donetsk Regional Centre and a new regional grading centre for the quality of education in Herson. Again, thanks to the money allocated at the end of last year, it was possible to secure the financing of these regional centres and to start their work because these problems were very serious. These centres were supposed to ensure that the UNMO was held in three areas, and obviously we had to start their work. And luckily, we've succeeded with both the budget and the individual donor funds involved. In particular, it is worth noting that in November a decree was also adopted to raise the salaries of employees of the Ukrainian Center. Once again, if we're talking about fighting corruption, of course, the WCO is a very important element in fighting corruption in the education system at the moment of entry into higher education institutions. So we need to understand that people who perform this important function of fighting corruption should receive a decent wage. Unfortunately, wages in the Ukrainian center have not been raised in years. Thus, a very serious question was raised about the staff: People did not want to go to work in such a responsible position. for such responsible positions, without sufficient security. The Cabinet's decision allowed this issue to be resolved, and to raise wages in the Ukrainian and regional centres. So for today, what we have. I want to assure the national deputies and society as a whole that, as of today, the 2016 ZNA has come to normal preparation. So according to the calendar plan that's been approved, we're now investing in the terms that were defined. On February 1st, registration for external independent evaluation began. By that time, the regulatory framework had been properly harmonized, the software had been restored, because it was also a very big problem. Everyone reads, knows from various sources that servers have been removed, software has been removed, we've been working with an investigation to get this software back to the Ukrainian centre, and the registration system has been launched this year. The third is money this year, and we are also preparing to test a new form of foreign language work. You know that the ZO is being held, including in foreign languages. Most graduates choose English. The problem is that only two types of speech activity are currently being tested by the WCO. UNTIL does not check the spoken language, nor does it check how much text a person perceives. And in this year, at least the question of auditioning, hearing the text in a foreign language, will be tested to try this part of the language competence test in the coming years. In particular, I want to point out that this question was raised on Wednesday at a committee meeting on science and education, although we have increased the funding of the Ukrainian Centre by 16 percent this year, we are still running out of money to pay for the work of the employees involved. What are you talking about? Thousands of teachers, teachers all over Ukraine, who are directly in the classrooms, in the classrooms, and directly administer the KNP. And separately, where there are open blocks of questions, they're checking the problem. And these people, of course, have to receive just as much compensation in order for them to do their work properly. We hope that the funds for this will be found. Question three. I'm sorry, the fourth question is about the new Ukrainian Education Act, which was decided yesterday to re-read to the committee. This decision was agreed between the ministry and the committee that there are some things that can be improved and improved in the bill before it is finally brought to Parliament. When it comes to the basic advantages of this law on education, it is comparable to what we had before. First and foremost, this is the change that causes the most discussion, but the change in which we are convinced and convinced by all the international experts that we involve, and the international experience shows this, the first change is the introduction of a 12-year-old school. I understand the question is questionable. But, at the same time, we are ready to argue and convince that if we move towards Europe, if we look at European experience, then our eleven-year-old school certainly raises questions. And, of course, we need to expand, extend the school term, and secure it. in order to ensure the profile at the senior level and in order to partially reduce the load on the student and increase his rights in the selection of subjects in the senior school. And the next important money is the introduction, the recognition of different types of education: formal, informal, informational. And so people who acquire some knowledge, some skills beyond formal education, can verify these skills, confirm their qualifications in the formal education system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u5	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u6	An important element of change is the introduction of independent teacher certification. It is anticipated that independent certification, which will voluntarily grant the right to a monthly salary supplement, will allow teachers who agree to go through voluntary certification to prove their higher level of preparation, will be able to count for an additional salary allowance. I think other innovations of the Education Act will be discussed in detail. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the performances are over. 30 minutes for questions and answers. I'd like to draw your attention to a minute and two minutes to answer. Everyone, please stay on schedule. Please prepare for the government’s enquiries. Please. Showcase, People's Deputy Vanat. Please, Peter Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u8	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Please tell me, what role will the Ministry play in connection with the transfer of CTU to the local level? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u9	So far, the Ministry has supported the Cabinet of Ministers regulation, which dealt with the need to ensure that the funding of the trade-in-training institutions that are in a situation of catastrophic underfunding is now in place. 500 million, we hope it'll go away next year. I'm sorry, I'll go to places next week to ensure their work. Similarly, we look forward to the President's decision on the bills that were passed here in the Supreme Council on the system of financing vocational and technical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u11	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Mr. Secretary, you've talked a lot about creating and doing registers, automating a lot of processes, and that's true. But do you know that there is now a huge problem in the country? And tell me, please, what's going on with the information base? In the State Register of Real Estate Rights, there is no information on non-residential property, even acquired in 1999-2008. Now all fellow members of the national MPs have been asked by the tax authorities to confirm ownership of real estate. That is, all MPs and other civil servants who have submitted declarations have to take copies of the ownership documents to the tax authority. Chi. This is not possible in general, because the State Tax Inspectorate is not responsible for saving the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u12	Please finish Nina Petrovna, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u13	And most importantly, where did all the information go? Why is everyone afraid to ask questions: Where is the information on real estate rights? She's not in the State Register.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Please respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u15	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for asking. I'm informing you. The State Register of Product Rights as an informed electronic system began operating in 2011. So far, in Ukraine, there was a system for registering property rights for such a still-movable property -- in every city there was a BTI, in paper media there was a registration, each BTI established its own registration rules, and in fact all those registrations that took place from the 1990s until 2011 on paper media are kept in municipal enterprises by the Bureau of Technical Inventory. In 2011, when the state centralized the register, it formed a suitable base, and then, by the way, Minust took over the whole monopoly for registration, it was, I think, wrongly done the very right thing -- the only register of things was created. But B.T.I. and local authorities failed to comply with the obligations that were laid down in the laws several times for them to transmit information on transactions that were made with real estate in the 1990s. So today, in the register of property rights, there's a full amount of information, starting in 2011, on newly created real estate, i.e. all the new buildings that have been put into service since 2011 are in the register and all the sales transactions that have been made since 2011. What I'm counting on is that what we've handed over to the local authorities right now to be authorized to register and provide services will motivate them to fill in their records from their BTI. At present, many technical inventory offices are accredited and similarly become service providers. So there was nothing missing from the register. The register is in the process of filling up, and this process is evolutionary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Two questions. I remember you promised by January-February gas months to review consumption volumes. Because the amount of $1,200 per month -- time has shown that it's not enough, people don't invest in it. I would like to know when this promise will be fulfilled, and the government will increase the alcohol consumption rate for Ukrainian citizens. Especially is this a huge problem in a rural area where a man will not pay a dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog’s dog for 200 cubs a month, let alone a house. And the second question. I know, in January-months, it's a very important overhaul of the revenue of the State budget, especially the excise on tobacco, on vodka products. Do you consider it possible to raise radically the minimum wage and pension? This year, 12 percent is planned, the Radical Party insists – at least 20 percent per year is expected to increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u19	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you for your question. Let me remind you that there was an initial proposal. When we introduced social standards for the population, there was an offer of 200 cubic meters each month for the heating season. Then, by the way, it was decided with you to give us 200 cubic meters not for a month, but 1,000 cubic meters for the entire season, so that people can determine for themselves when to consume more gas and when to consume less gas. Now we're doing a gas-consuming calculation because January-month was very cold, December was warm, and now you see that the temperature situation is also generally conducive to reducing natural gas consumption. We're going to go all over the areas and all of the consumer categories to see if we have to add or if we're going to invest in the social standard of 1,200 cubic meters of gas. I will inform you of this and the members of Parliament separately. I would like to remind you once again that 5.5 million Ukrainian citizens are receiving subsidies today. And I think you're driving and you're seeing voters a lot. That anti-tariff hysteria that was, it wasn't true. Because the grant institution really worked. It will have to be improved in some way. But those who need help from the State receive it. According to the results of the heating season, the results of January of the month, and we're going to calculate all of the consumption information in terms of consumer categories. I'll let you know if there's a possibility, if there's no possibility of being added, and if there's relevance. But the main thing is, everyone gets subsidies. And no matter what social consumption rate, whoever has low income, he covers his tariff accounts at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, a national MP. Arsenius Petrovich, according to the index, another question. Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u21	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, for the population's monetary income index. Last year, I reported to Parliament during Parliament's report, and I can honestly admit that there were a lot of problems in the economy. And one of the main problems was high inflation. That is 43 percent of inflation, which is related to both the economic situation and the collapse of the national monetary unit, and administrative tariffs, and energy tariffs. Last year, together in September with Parliament, we decided to index 13 percent and 19 percent respectively. This did not compensate for the increase in prices. What is our goal in the current year? In the current year, first of all, price stability needs to be maintained. So for us, the anchor of inflation -- that's what the Cabinet of Ministers should be responsible for -- is 12 percent. It is objective that this anchor of inflation is tied to a dozen parameters. The first and the main is the course of the national monetary unit. And I hope that the National Bank will do everything to ensure that the country has monetary stability. But in order for the National Bank to succeed, we need to be on the agenda with our Western partners, including the International Monetary Fund program. And to make the decisions signed by the President of Ukraine under which the prime minister signed. And accordingly approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. So we're increasing social standards by exactly 12 percent in the current year to compensate for price and tariff increases. I'll be honest with you, we don't have an extra resource at this point. In view of the substantial decline in oil prices, due to the substantial collapse of world prices in Ukraine’s main export positions, it will be very, very difficult for us to implement the state budget. As I said last year, if the implementation of the state budget is better than we expected, it means that we're going to put these costs on social pay. But the main thing that I'd like to look to you and tell you is a real source from which we can increase social.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u22	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u23	From which we can increase social standards and actually fund the army, and start funding employment and job creation programs is a half a billion US dollars arrested and located in the Savings Bank of Ukraine, but for which there is no court decision to confiscate for two years. I'm asking the D.A.'s office and the entire Ukrainian law enforcement system to finally bring this case to an end, confiscate these assets. We're going to put them in the country's state budget right now. And I ask Parliament's support for the adoption of a separate law in order to make it easier for the prosecutor's authorities to perform their task of confiscating these funds. For a year, we have been addressing all the relevant law enforcement agencies in order to have a court verdict and these funds confiscated. And I very much ask the members of Parliament to support the government's position to adopt a separate law, money into a budget, then we have additional sources of employment, jobs, social services and basics for the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u24	Please, Constantine Jarinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for Health Minister Sandro Kwiatashvili. As we can see, the reform of medicine, the medical sector, has never begun. And all our expectations are, without a strategy that is not approved at the level of the Health Committee, not at the level of Parliament. We're still looking forward to a bill that talks about self-imposing medical institutions. This bill has not yet reached the session hall. But without standards and approved protocols, we can't even move around with the question of autonomy solved. So I have a simple question. When do we have protocols and standards for treatment? And the second question. When do we put in place a medical evaluation mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. We do it every year. But there are generally treatment protocols in the country, and the health system works under these protocols. But we need modern protocols and associations, professional groups that develop protocols, bring new ones to the ILO every month. Only in 15 did we approve 20 new protocols. And if you look at the total number, by 1 March we'll have about 60 new modern treatment protocols. These are the completed protocols, which are European, modern, and enable everything to be done, calculated. It's on the bill of services. A few months ago, a Croatian company. has won a competition for the development of TRG calculations for the TRG services groups. And at the same time, we have a working group on the calculation of the basic package of services, which is guaranteed. A package of services. And I'm ready to come to the committee and present to you the whole plan: both the financial plan and the action plan that we have developed. We didn't stop. We're waiting for laws to be passed. But we didn't stop work, so we're basically ready. I'd love to come and present it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u27	Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I have a question for you. Today, we have a nineteen - year - old minister of health in the time of an independent Ukraine. Every minister of health has his own reform, and everything ends quickly. Last time you replied that you had high hopes for reforming, voting on the National Social Insurance Act. Now the Ministry of Health has said that this bill is not in time. There was a meeting yesterday with WHO exports that said that without the approval of a government document, the concept or strategy for the development of a national health system to consider any legislation was not appropriate. The Ministry of Health did not bring such a concept to the meeting of Kabmin. I have two questions. When will the Cabinet of Ministers approve this as a road map? One. And please listen to the work of the Ministry of Health on the introduction of the Emergency Medical Care Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u30	The concept of reform of the health system was presented by the Minister of Health at the National Council for Reform under the leadership of the President of Ukraine. It's about legislation that needs to be adopted. I recall our discussion for the last time, which was in the walls of Parliament and in the spheres of Parliament, and I appeal to you next. We need to find an understanding between the government and the profile committee, a respected committee of profile, in the need for this legislation to be adopted. I know that there are several laws, including those developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. If the Ukrainian national deputies feel that their laws are better, they are supported by the government. For me, today is a real reform of the health system. The Constitution states that medicine in Ukraine is free of charge. Unfortunately, this remains and is only on paper. That is why our system and our health reform should be followed. The state provides a minimum guaranteed level of government funds. All above is the introduction of state insurance. To do that, once again, you have to give up the bed-and-bed, the treatment protocol, the cost of such treatment, in order to calculate this service. And it is essential that the health care system be oriented in its funding for the patient and his illness. The sooner we do this, Mr. Shurma, the more we talk about it in the country of 10 years, the more we talk about it. And as soon as the elections begin, everyone runs out and shouts about free medicine. We have to say honestly, the state is able to provide a minimum and guaranteed level of health care, all that is above is state insurance. I'm asking members of Parliament, and I'm giving instructions to the members of the government, so let's start this process and adopt these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Andrew Shinkovic, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u32	Thank you. I have two short questions for the Ministry of Education. Dear Inna Romanovna, with all due respect for what you're doing. But in your information, you've reported the trade union as a facility. And I want to tell you that there are people who are learning and people who work there. For example, hops. For two months more than 500 workers in the trades sector are not paid. Two months over 500. More than 100 children who do not have enough food to support themselves. More than 2,000 students in vocational education don't get a small one, but a scholarship, for many, is the only source. So I'm asking you very much, you know, when you're making some proposals and when you're saying "decentralisation," you understand how to give up, please suggest systemic changes taking into account that training is a strategic sector at all. And second, very short. Child - Feeding in School It's not just a matter of giving up, it's a decentralization, it's in the same area today, the Bilogir district.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u33	Please, 10 seconds, please finish, Shinkovic, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u34	. In the Bilogir region, 3,000 children, of whom only 130 are fed at a state expense. Think of a system, let's give a category to the district council, another category to the district councils, but the system has a ministry to come up with. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u35	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u36	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say that, of course, the question of vocational education is a question that needs a systemic solution for some temporary ones. A solution to the burning problems. In order to systematically address the issue of vocational and technical education, the Ministry has developed a bill on vocational education, which is currently under consideration in the committee. We very much hope that there will be support for the development of the vocational education system here in the hall in order to systematically address the issues that apply to vocational education. Because it's not just about funding. Equally important are the quality of education, the relevance of the knowledge provided in these institutions. And these are all training issues that have to be prepared and so on and so forth. The question is very complex and very complex. Now, of course, the main focus is on financing vocational schools, around financing the salaries of people who teach or study them. To date, the Ministry has supported those efforts aimed at securing the financing of trade and technology, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope that this will allow us to resolve the issue that is urgent today. But what I'm saying is that in order for this to be resolved globally, we need to take a systematic approach to this and consider the new Vocational Education Act. Because problems accumulate and need to be resolved systematically, not by the point of putting out fires. The second question is about feeding children. The issue of nutrition is clearly sensitive and complex. And at the same time, in solving this issue, we must not jump into population. There are children who need food and are now provided with food. There are children who, even having access to free food, do not go to the dining room because they do not want to eat what is offered for the money that can be budgeted for today. Clearly, then, the question needs to be considered in order to provide for those categories that really need it. And steps in this direction are being taken by the Ministry of Education and the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. But the question should not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Yuri Wozniak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u38	Yuri Wozniak, People's Front, Equinox. My question to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture of Viacheslav Kirilenko. It was reported that a portion of the buildings and premises of the Sofia Congregation had been transferred to the property of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate. Please tell me, how did this transfer happen without conflict? In fact, is that true? And how will the congregation continue to exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate addressed the Ministry of Culture in order to enable them to carry out worship in the territory of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska, in the area of the temple called the Warm Sofia. We've considered this statement, and we haven't found any reason not to satisfy it. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that the services will take place, not in the territory of St. Sophia, of that great temple, but in the territory of the Trapezian Church, built in the 13th century. These services will take place in full compliance with the protection and monumental legislation. All the requirements of protection and monumental legislation have been met. What's more, Sofia is a living reserve, there's art exhibitions, there's art events, it's visited by people. And from what will be spent there in certain days, and the festivals of worship of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, there will be no worse "Sofia." Moreover, I want to say that this is a decision that is extremely important to the Ukrainian State in general, because for the first time in 330 years, the Ukrainian Church has returned to Sofia Kyivsky, before, strangely and sadly, it was impossible. That's why all the security issues are solved, and we're ready for any public monitoring, and the Ukrainian phobics of all the artists who are about to raise a cry around this issue, let them calm down: the Ukrainian course of this Cabinet of Ministers, and the Ministry of Culture, in particular, is unchanged. We will defend Ukrainian national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u41	Julius Mamchure, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u42	Please pass the word to your colleague Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u43	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, after yesterday's event, I think there are no questions for the government. Today is the 29th day left to form a new coalition. But the question is extraordinary. That's why I'm addressing the law enforcement agencies and, above all, Mr. Mamchure's war prosecutor. Mathios, I'm sorry! I have a plate in my hands, it's the sixth plate that was shot in the ATO zone, which was pierced from 50 meters by a normal bullet. These are plates that come to be called. The armors that come from TEMP-3,000 are being replaced by these plates. And directly discovered a few dozen just shot-out plates that are pierced by a normal bullet. I'm asking you to take care of this right now, because these are the ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u45	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u46	. In these circumstances, it's not enough to just spend money on an army. Those who allow themselves to build such plates should today be shot off along with these plates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u47	I'm asking you to consider the military prosecutor information an official request. I will write to the prosecutor today to immediately start the investigation and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the shortest possible time. Please, I'm asking the apparatus to properly prepare an appeal to the military prosecutor immediately. For Sergey Soboljeva's request. Thank you. Can anyone answer that question? Please, Mini-Defense, Russian Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I'm asking, really, the materials we're going to hand over and specify in which units we're looking at, because there might be National Guards, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Border Guards, and we're going to start studying right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u49	I advise you, Ministry of Defense, to do this faster than the military prosecutor. Please, it is likely that an internal investigation should be initiated immediately, whether this is confirmed or not, but it must be done very quickly. Let's move on. National Deputy Illenko Andrew, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u50	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Tell me, please, as the head of the government who received an unsatisfactory assessment from parliament, which unfortunately was not retired, which is, of course, a nonsensus from this point of view, you say that your government is systematically struggling with oligarchs and you say that it is carrying out reforms that are inconvenient to oligars. But please explain to Parliament and the Ukrainian people how it happened that just by the votes of the oligarchs your government was preserved, that precisely because representatives of all oligarchic groups did not vote in favour of your government, the political crisis continues in the country and today the whole country is essentially your hostage? And isn't that the political bribe that these oligarchic groups will get when what you're about to call privatization begins? And won't these state-owned strategic enterprises pay for their loyalty to your government?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u51	Mr. People’s Deputy of Ukraine, the government and I personally reported to Parliament for a year of our activities. On more than one occasion, I answered the question in this Parliamentary Hall, including the specific facts of how the government limited the Ukrainian oligarchy, starting with an increase in rates and taxes on rent for useful mines, to other types of oligarchi business that had never been raised in Ukraine for two decades, but all of them had already been talked about, ending with antitrust investigations into the largest energy monopolies that had been launched for the government's initiatives, which had never been done before, including the return of public assets that were either in rent or stolen by Ukrainian oligarchs during the last decade. And assets are returned to government property, like mining and enrichment combinations, like the company Skrnafta and the company Skrtransnafta and other state-owned objects. Therefore, I ask the honourable Member of Parliament to use only the facts and not to lie. As to the next steps and actions. I also refer to all members of the Ukrainian Parliament to turn the page and bury the axe of war, to stop the chaos and the political crisis that started right in the walls of Parliament. We are able to do this and move on only along the path of reform, exclusively on the path of necessary changes in the country, not allowing ourselves to destroy what we have been doing so difficult over the last two years together, and you, Mr. Illenko, also with us on the field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u52	Please, People's Deputy Chicken. A. conveys the word of Barna. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u53	Mr. Yatsenuk, do you understand that the country's integration is not laws that we adopt and are not enforced by the government, but, first of all, it's European policy-making, European methods of fighting corruption, European government, the Supreme Council and the European Prime Minister, who, in losing the trust of the people and parliament, resigns himself, without waiting for him to be beaten. Do you realize that you and your oligarch - financed orcs have no reason to rejoice that you have abstained, for the people who passed Midan and the ATO will not tolerate lawlessness. Will you exercise your basic dignity and dignity, walk alone, so as not to provoke the entire Ukrainian people? And did you know that the ax of war, crisis, blackmail, cynicism is primarily you. And do you remember that today’s second anniversary of mass shootings on Maidan? And do you know what the boys died for, and do you repent? So I ask everyone to stand up, to mention the moment of silence of the heroes of Maidan and the ATO. You're sorry! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u54	Let us pay tribute to the memory of the fallen heroes. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Everlasting memory. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. There's one more question: Aunt Ostrikova. But before that, I have a question. Colleagues, pay attention! I have a matter under Law 3830 to the government. We know that in the 2016 budget, there was an error in terms of the CTP funding system. Parliament has recently passed a decision, or a law, 3830, which allows for the restoration of funding, stability and resolution of the situation. According to information available to us, there is information in Parliament that the Ministry of Finance has prepared a veto for this law, a proposal for vetoing. We believe that this issue needs to be settled. And we think it's easy to put forward proposals for a veto when the law was passed as a result of consultations, a huge work was carried out by a committee, a huge work by educators who are present today in parliament, with trade unions, with representatives of CTU. They settled the situation, they found a way out, they laid it out in law. Without advice, without advice, it's wrong to propose vetoing. So I'd like you to look at this position and figure out how to regulate it. Please, Minister of Finance, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u55	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has insisted and proposed to apply the veto to these laws, but for very specific reasons, and not without other solutions. As for the law that was proposed. We didn't support it, because the money that's being offered to take away from the education grant of that amount is exactly going to reduce the cost of funding schools during this year. So we solve one problem and we create another problem. The other one. The proposal in such bills to reduce the cost of stabilising by almost 1 billion dollars also affects our ability to support those areas and local budgets that are underfunded at the end of the year. Instead of this bill, we were just proposing a solution because of a decision that was taken in the Cabinet of Ministers, and it was already discussed and adopted on the budget committee on Wednesday about 500 million dollars that we actually see where they were taking them and not create any other additional problems. So we're proposing to you, and the budget committee on Wednesday made this decision, to solve it within our capabilities, not to create new problems, both in terms of stabilisation and in school subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u56	I want to emphasize. The last question is Tetjana Ostrkova. I want to emphasize that a stabilising grant is just about to stabilize those problems that are not solved. So to distribute in one way or another, it's not a huge problem. But once again, I stress that such decisions should be made through consultation with Parliament. Parliament has done a great deal of work to address this issue, and I would like to stress once again on the basis of the committee. And it's not just a question of cost, it's a question of Ukrainian vocational and technical education. Please (we'll work on this question), Tetjana Ostrikova, one minute and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Head, for being able to ask this important question. February 20, which is tomorrow’s deadline for submitting a declaration of VAT. I'll remind all of us that since February 1st, the Tax Code has acquired the validity of two registers of VAT budgetary compensation. At the same time, the order of conduct and the form of registers should have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers by February 1. Today, February 19th. The state of affairs for this moment is just a draft ruling on the Ministry of Finance's website. He is, as always, impregnable and corrupt. Corruption is that the distribution mechanism between the two registers is not prescribed, and the money will be split again. split in manual mode. So the Self-Help faction insists that we immediately publish the order for the registration of VAT compensation, the order of the distribution of funds between the two registers. Remove all corruption factors from there. Since there is no coalition, we think there is no government. So I ask that this question be answered by the acting minister of finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u58	First of all, all the decrees were made on Friday at the Cabinet of Ministers, signed, and everything will work on time. Second of all, we don't have any VAT debts. Everything is now in an absolutely transparent plane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Thank you to the government for the answers. Thank you to the National Deputies for asking. It's good to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u60	In accordance with the Rules, honourable members of the national parliament will proceed to the inquiry. We have questions: Groups of National Deputies (Jachenka, Guljava and others) A total of 14 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of full, objective security. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, since there are questions from the national deputies, I would like to inform you that we are working in accordance with the Rules. Now, there's going to be a question announcement, and then there's this break, and then there's the entries, and there's the different one. Let's keep going. Requests were received from: Group of National Deputies (Jatzenka, Guljeva and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the full, objective and comprehensive investigation of the attempted murder and deliberate damage to the property of the lawyer Fedur Andriya Anatoliyovich; groups of people’s deputies (Dubnević, Gorvati and others). A total of 23 deputies) headed by the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, on the restoration of national radio broadcasting in Donetsk and Lugansk regions; groups of people’s deputies (Dubnević, Gorvati and others). A total of 23 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the award of the State's prize for the participant in the hostilities, the disabled of the Second Group of Dennis Soloway; Paul Rizanenka, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, on the use of measures to prevent violations of city legislation; Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1314 of 8 November 2007 on the approval of the write-off of State property objects; Tarasa Batenka to the executive responsibility of the head of the Public Shareholders Association, Uzgrad-Kyiv and No. 050 Truscavet-Kyiv, to make changes to the road schedules of the Lviv Railways 'Ternopoli railways station through the Złoczów-Kyiv railway station to improve the transport connections of the city of Złoczów in the Lviv region with other localities; Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the initiation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the change to Ukraine's State Budget for 2016 on financial security for the feeding of students in the 1-4 classes at the expense of education subsidies from the State budget to local budgets; Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Vinicki Region, Prosecutor of the Vinnicki Region, Head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, First Deputy Chief of the National Police in the Vinicki district on the illegal decision of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesics, cartography and cadastre, on the transfer to indefinite time of the competition from the appointment of the Director of the National Police in the Guinitz system. Vasil Janicka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need for the establishment of a territorial district body of the Ukrainian National Police in the Vodommirsky region of the Plain region. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the proposal of the Ukrainian Wind Energy Association. Alexander Dombrovski to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine for Civil and Criminal Affairs, the Director of the Institute of State and Law of NANU, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Rector of the National University of Lviv, John Frank, the Rector of the National University of Donetsk, the Rector of the National Law University of Yaroslava Wise, the Rector of the National University of Kiev, the Rector of the National University of Taras Shevchenka, the Rector of the National University of Odeski Legal Academy, the Head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, the Head of the Court of Appeal or the Judicial Court of Vinické region, for the purpose of amending article 33 of the Civil Code of Procedure of Ukraine, providing for the co-ordination of other judges and the judiciary. Oleg Osuhovski to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the proper investigation of vandalism. John Balloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the payment of consumers for joining the gas supply network. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the protection of the social rights of Ukrainian citizens who have become adoptive. Alexander Kodoli to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the assignment of the title "The Hero of Ukraine" Bruju Mikoli Vitaliovich (dead) Igora Lucenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine and legal acts of the National Bank of Ukraine in the field of banking, acting as deputy to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine - Rozkova. Andrew Kota to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on improper investigation and failure to establish the real causes of the death of Zastavan A.R. Andrija Kota to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal establishment of the Novostralstian United Territorial Society (Jewish Region, Lviv Region). Alons Skrum to the Director of the Department of Land Resources of the Kyiv City State Administration on information on the transfer of land under the construction of the Metrograd Trade Centre and the receipt of a copy of the cadastral case of the Metrograd Trade Centre. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the legal evaluation of the actions of individual representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to address the issue of leaving the State Water Agency of Ukraine in the sphere of administration of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the extension of the investigation of the case concerning the obstruction by the Director of T.O.T. "Illian Television - 3" of the National Deputy of Ukraine's activities. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region of the Dnipropetrov region for the provision of information on the number of allocated land areas with an indication of the area and persons who were granted the right to privatize land free of charge through the decision of the session of the New Alexander Rural Council for the period 2010-2016 inclusive. Yurya Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the refusal of the Novoleksandrova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region of the Dnipropetrov region in the selection of the land for the management of the private farm and the land area for the construction and maintenance of the housing, farm buildings and garage construction of the participant of the hostilities Kovalenk Artem Vasilovich. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unjustified increase in housing and utility tariffs and the unsatisfying state of work on subsidies for residential and utility services in villages of Lakerne and Novoguywinsk Zitomir district of the Žitomir region. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Palamarcuk, and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the involvement of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Vitalia Kaska, in the commission of unlawful acts that conflict with the interests of the State and society. Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the provision of information on measures used by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption in the higher education system. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of land relations with the community of the village of Radjansk Berdichov district of Žitomir district. Alexander Revega to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for ensuring the proper and timely allocation of funds from the State budget for the treatment of patients with rare (orphania) diseases. Sergija Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible creation of artificial grounds for avoiding the illustration of the first Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev Valendjuka. Ostapa One to the National Police of Ukraine, the State Financial Inspectorate in Kiev, the Kyiv City Public Administration for Financial Abuses by Workers of KP Animal Shelter. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the invisibility of parental and child certificates from a multi - child family, which violates the right to social protection. Vladislav Severykov to the Ministry of Health for State Procurement under the National Cancer Control Programme for the period up to 2016, and the lack of provision of oncological drugs at the expense of the state budget. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of pension recalculation in accordance with the rulings of the court. Hennady Chekita to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Deputy Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of Device, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of established production requirements and on the storage of liquid helium. Andrija Shinkovič to the first deputy head of the Hmelnick district government for the provision of quality drinking water to the rural population of the Hmelnick district. Dmitry Lubinz to the Ukrainian Security Service, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of State procurement conducted by the Education Department of the District State Administration of the Donetsk Region. Vadim Krivenk and Paul Dziulik to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Ukraine’s Attorney General, on the illegal removal of land to the responsibilities of the General Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior in the Žitomir region. Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the establishment of the State Enterprise "Stépne" Research Farm of the Poltava region with the aim of preserving its entire property complex and land areas and warning of the existing intentions of individual commercial structures to own it for their own purposes, resulting in the destruction of this profitable enterprise and the unemployment of its employees. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration, head of the Donetsk District Military and Civil Administration, to provide information on the internal social welfare institutions for children and the elderly. Vladislava Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the repair of road traffic in the Golden Region, Cherkas region. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a proper examination of attempts to overestimate the cost of carrying out the work of marking the Ukrainian-Russian state border. Mr. Mikoli Lavrika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Health, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to health of residents of the Romanian district of the Sumska region, as a priority activity of the State in the field of health care of Ukraine, in part of the non-admission of a reduction contrary to article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the State Foundation of the "Leinian Police Department of Romany STGO "South Railway". Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the Association of Rural, Rural Councils of the Žitomir Region of the Žitomir Region on the need for the annulment of the Decree of the National Commission on Energy and Municipal Services, since 28 December 2015 No.3141 on the amendment of the schedule of differential hours of electricity tariffs, which is used for the external lighting of the population sites approved by the National Commission for Electricity Regulation of Ukraine since 22 October 2004 No.1030. Viktor Razwadowski to the deputy minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine for European integration, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the verification of compliance with legislation by the daughter-in-law of Spat in the location of the planned Gjorné family careers near the village of Wilha Romanov County, Žitomir Region. Vadim Nesterenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of effective law by the judge of the Krasnoggard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Victoria Samsonova. Oleg Musia to the Ukrainian State Service for Labour, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to warn of a technological catastrophe. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the catastrophic state of road traffic in the Rokitno region. Dmitri Andriewsky, head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the provision in 2016 of the school's 1-4 classes of general education institutions in Kiev at the expense of the local budget, according to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 18 January 2016 No16. Michael Bondar, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Road Service in the Lviv region, to provide detailed information on the road economy of Brodowsk, Buzek, Kamyanka-Buzk, Radehovsk district of the Lviv region. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional amount of medical and educational subsidies from the State Budget for the Brdovian Region of Lviv area amounting to 13 000 520. 13 million 520,000 dollars. Andrija Derkača to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the Potivl (city of Burin) stop on the 779K "Sumi-Kyiv" train route. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of urgent calculations with utilities companies. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Public Target Program "Drinking Water of Ukraine". Jury Babia to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into the circumstances of the accident, which took place on December 20, 2015 on the capital highway in Kiev, resulting in the death of the resident of Ivano-Frankivska Tetjana Mikitin. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of financing for vocational and technical education. Dmitry Linka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the verification of the provision of textbooks for junior schoolchildren. Stephen Ivakhiv to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the use of extradition measures from the former director of Kovellian Housing and Construction Unit Oleg Vuka of the Kingdom of Spain. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the purpose of organizing arrangements at the military hospital of Starocostinovka Hmelnicka District. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the registration and servicing of large taxpayers with a view to avoiding the loss of district budgets, including the district budget of the Suma region. Vladislav Buharjeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of compensation for local budgets for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens who are entitled to it in accordance with valid legislation. Victoria Sumar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the pressure on the President of the Chamber of Commerce. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of false information by Yuri Sevrukov, the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, in the reply of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine since 21 October 2015 No04/2/3-1006-11 to Arjev's parliamentary address of September 18, 2015 No218/523, with the aim of concealing the criminal offences committed by officials of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. Jury Bublika to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the systematic violation by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Groisman of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of the announcement of the results of the vote in the division of parliamentary factions and groups and the failure to take appropriate action against violators of the requirement for personal voting. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of legislative mechanisms for improving the living conditions of citizens. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the reconstruction of the Darnitsky Square in Kiev Bogdan Dubnević to the Minister of Education and Science for the Order of Acquisition in 2016 of Certificates and Testimony in Secondary Schools. Ljubomir Zubada to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of wage and allowance for teachers of higher education institutions, the first and third levels of accreditation, which have the pedagogical title of "older teacher". Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the transfer of land to private owners of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Vladimir Aresonkov is head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the absence of an effective mechanism to cover the difference in tariffs for companies providing municipal services to the population. Vladimir Aresonkov is under the executive responsibility of the head of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrzaliznica" regarding the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Korstenya, the Žitomir region of the PAT "Ukrzalznica" group. Sergia Labazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, on the possibility of funding the education facilities of Volocsky district of Hmelni district, at the expense of the 2016 state budget. Sergey Labazuk to the Interministerial Center to assist citizens in the liberation of prisoners, hostages and the discovery of missing missing persons, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the release from captivity of military personnel. Jacob Besbach to the United States Commissioner for Human Rights, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Vasila Petyovka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the opening of the Romanian Consulate in the village of the town type Solotvino of the Zakarpatsky region. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine aimed at correcting the situation in the area of military and civilian health care in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the Ministry of Public Health to provide public information regarding the use of budget funds for the purchase of medical supplies and medical supplies according to state programmes in 2015. Alexander Dudenkova to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the order of movement of persons, means of transport and cargo (goods) through the line of collision within the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Alexander Doubenkova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of monthly targeted assistance to persons who are moving from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and areas of anti-terrorist operation. Group of National Deputies (Klimpus-Cincadze, Jurinec, Nayema) to head the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on ensuring the right conditions for vitality and service to members of the Company No. 3 regiment of the Special Police Department of Kiev, who are on duty in the area of anti-terrorist operation. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on optimizing the mechanism of compensation for the payment of subsidies from the State budget to carriers. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Presidential Decree on measures in connection with the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Jury Chizmar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the deliberate delay in the investigation by the Investigation Department of the Irpin Police Department of the National Police Department of the Kyiv region. Jury Chizmar to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the corruption of the investigation group and the leadership of the Irpine Police Department of the National Police Department in the Kyiv region. Stepan Cuba is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals regarding the provision of information on assets of insolvent banks that are subject to sale, their characteristics, and their cost. Stepan Kubeva to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for clarification by the National Bank of Ukraine on the reasons for the discrepancies in the Ukrainian balance of payments figures for 2015 compared to the same official information from the Ukrainian State Statistics Service. Mary Ionova to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the implementation of the Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine by foreigners and persons without citizenship. Maria Ionova and Olga Cervakova to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for providing information on the forward-looking plan for the formation of the Kyiv region’s communities. Anatolya Evlakhova to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations against the rise in electricity tariffs, which are used for the external lighting of the populace. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need to provide comprehensive legal assistance and to ensure an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Marina Leonidivna Durnev to renew its constitutional right to work and to compensate for adequate financial security. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive response to the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa to a veteran of labor, a child of war, the Lydia Andriynowni Podoprů on the possibility of reimbursement of expenses resulting from urgent ophthalmological operational interventions and the provision of comprehensive social assistance. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the return of the Kiev community to the premises of kindergartens where state institutions are located and the restoration of their activities. Mikli Tomenka’s temporary duty as Head of State Administration to ensure free access to one of the 7 wonders of Kiev’s Chimera House. Alexandre Kugel to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Ukrainian Security Service on the question of the existence of legitimate grounds for applying to TOV "M.S.L." sanctions. Irina Ephraim to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the failure to comply with the principle of the irreparability of criminal punishment in relation to the suspected Zelotorog and to obtain unlawful benefits from individual officials. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, the head of the Czernigow District Administration, the head of the Dnipropetrov District Administration, the head of the Zitomir District Administration, the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, the first deputy head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, the head of the Lviv District State Administration, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the head of the Kyiv District Administration, the head of the Kirovograd District State Administration, the head of the Lviv District State Administration, the head of the Mikolai District State Administration, the head of the Odes District State Administration, the head of the Poltava District State Administration, the Head of the Provincial District State Administration. First Deputy Head of the Herson District Government Administration, First Deputy Head of the Hmelnick district government administration, Head of the Cherkas district government administration, Head of the Chernobyl district government administration, Head of the Wallin district government administration for the provision of legal, law and human rights in the respective areas. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal logging in the area of the Volovetsky district of Zakarpatsk. Jacob Besbach to the Ukrainian Human Rights Council, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive examination of the circumstances regarding the long-term failure to execute judicial decisions. Eugene Dejaja, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration, on the use of measures to respond to the misuse of state property. Ruslan Solvar to the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Kyiv City State Administration on the situation surrounding the construction of the land on the street of Fruitova, 22-A in the Podil district of Kiev. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of scientific institutions and the size of the salaries of scientists. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of the budget of the disabled and the group. Anton Kisse and Sergio Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of forestry from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 and the preservation of the existing forest system. Sergey Kudlaenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting the illegal actions of the military command of the B2950 and the Poltava District Military Commission on the refusal to send the necessary package of documents for the preparation and payment of cash once in the event of disability to the demobilized participant in the hostilities, Alexander Carenk. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the cessation of the activities of the Odessa import plant. Victor Krivenk to the U.K. Attorney General's Office for the Open Letter of the Working Group "Mikolaiwska TEC" on illegal enterprise management actions. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on thorough checks of the situation that took place during the restructuring of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. John Rybak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the inclusion of important roadfaring objects in a list funded by an experiment on financial security for road development. Igor Popov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of statistics on internal health infections in medical facilities in Ukraine. Vadim Nesterenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the transfer of state property to the municipal property of local self-governance of a town-type village of Guardi Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the conduct of deep-sea work and the state of the operating area and the approach channels of DP "Maryupolski Sea Trade Port". Groups of National Deputies (Doves, Dedeans, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the first Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct regarding the proposed bribe, particularly largely, to the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Odessa region of Saquarelidze. Dmitry Golubov to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent steps taken to verify the overcoming of official powers and the abuse of office by officials of the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Berezan district of Mikolaiiv district, the Prosecutor's Office of the Suvorov district of Odessa. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reordering of the territorial bodies of the state institutions of the Hotin region of the Chernivecki region. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the rapid, objective and impartial investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the threat to officials of the Czernovets Customs of the DFS. Andrea Shipka, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the financing of road repair work in the city of Nicopol Dnipropetrovsk. Andrija Shipka is headed by the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority on the use of water degradation measures in the residential area of Novopavlovka in the city of Nnipropetrovsk. Dmitry Timchuk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the involvement of Russian Federation military personnel working with terrorists known as the DNR and the LNR. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the Director of the "Stepova" Department of "Lvivkogil" of Smerica Sergey Stepanovich for the presence in his activities of coal theft, abuse of service status and violation of labour legislation. Vladimir Parasuka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the Yavorovsk Region in the form of existing Urban, Mosty and Yavorovsk regions in the framework of administrative reform. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the necessary and sufficient financing of the medical facilities of Bilocerkovsky, Vladarski, Skuriski, Stavištenski, Tarostian and Tetijev region of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the urgent legislative protection of small and medium-sized Ukrainian farmers and other taxpayers. Sergey Kaplin to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor for the Investigation of Possible Crime During the State Procurement Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Rookzak Ukraine. Julius Ljovczany to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the measures identified by the Integrated State Support, Social Adaptation and Reintegration Programme for Ukrainian citizens who have moved from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine to the areas of anti-terrorist operation in other regions of Ukraine until the 17th year. July Lvivčena to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for information on measures taken to restore the Donetsk and Lugansk regions by the State Agency for the Restoration of the Donbas in 2015. to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of adequate facilities, the Ukrainian Medical Centre for the Rehabilitation of Children with Organic Nervous System of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the social standard of natural gas consumption, which is being implemented to the population for domestic needs. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the problems encountered in the field of labour protection. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the full and impartial investigation of tragic events on May 2, 2014, in Odessa. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the use of response measures to ensure the implementation of constitutional rights for the health of Ukrainian citizens living in rural areas in part of the creation of a network of social pharmacies within the administrative and territorial boundaries of rural areas. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of response measures to disrupt the employment contract with the Director-General of the National Museum of History of Ukraine, in connection with the numerous violations of labour laws, the lack of necessary professional skills and education at the level of the profile, the numerous violations of instructions and the management of the museum, which endangers the national acquisition and security of the object, the short-term conduct of economic activity and the inflammation of the enemy at the language level, the obstruction of the legitimate activities of trade unions and the involvement of responsible for violations and the speediest conduct of competitions in the field of professional qualifications. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of issuing orders from the General Directorate of the State Department of the State of Kiev concerning the transfer of land to the property of natural persons. Olega Kulinić to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for changes to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance order of 14 January 2011 No.11. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on compensation for the benefits and subsidies granted to the population. Mikhail Golovka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the transfer of the Pochaiov Museum of Art to the state. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for ensuring the proper level of funding of the state educational institution "Bresan Professional Agricultural List" of the Kyiv Region. Alexia Kirichenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the state of security of Ukraine’s regions by immunological drugs (vaccins). Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on how to solve the problems of paying for natural gas consumed by the budgetary institutions of the Cameroonian, Smilian, Cherkas region of the Cherkas region. Juriya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the amounts of public enterprise funds lost in connection with their placement in accounts in private banks that have been declared insolvent and on the involvement of officials and officials in such facts. Mr. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the issue of providing necessary treatment and rehabilitation for a disabled child guaranteed by the State. Mr. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the removal of the gap in legislation and the protection of the right to receive a grant by unprotected groups regardless of the person's place of registration. Valentina Didić to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of property rights by officials of the Odessa Customs of the State Fiscal Service in relation to the citizen of Vernidoub, resident of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Vitalia Stasuka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the release of the Chief of the Dniprovsky District Authority of the National Police of Ukraine in Kiev, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power. Groups of National Deputies (Osuhovsky, Golovka, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Verification of Corruption in the Gas Area of Ukraine. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as head of the right-wing district office in Kiev, deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Police Department of Kiev National Police for the ill-governance situation in the area near the KP "Kyivsky Metropolitan" Lisova station in the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in Kiev, Head of the Government Service of Ukraine, with exceptional circumstances in Kiev, regarding the non-admission of illegal logging in the area of the Bykovnian Forest KP "Darnicka Forest Farm". Gregory of Times to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of additional funds in the form of educational subsidy to the Mamaligia territorial community of the Cherniew region to ensure the functioning of the Mamaligia general education school I-III degrees, the Balkovetski general education school I-III degrees, the Court of Education I-III degrees, the Dranitsky NVC, the Neslovian NVC and the Permanent Education NVC. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, the head of the Montenegrin District Council on the allocation of additional funds from the district budget of the Chernievsky region of Mamaligiv County to ensure the functioning of the Mamaligi National School of Education, II and III degrees, the Balkovetsk University of Education, the I-II degree level, the Suburban General School of Education, the Dranitsky NVC, the Neslovyan NVK and the Stalinese NVK. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the status of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct No.420150000001280 of 25 June 2015 on the basis of the crime envisaged in section 4 of article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the fact of a public statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine VII calling Igor Skosar on receiving Arsenia Yatsenuk a bribe of $6 million. Constantine Jarinić to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at preventing the operation of the Kirovograd Air Traffic Services and ensuring conditions for further development of the airport of Kirovograd. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the decisions of the courts to restore social benefits to citizens living in separate areas of the Donetské and Lugansk regions. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of a verification of the activities of KP "Harkovoparksservis", other operators in Kharkiv from the provision of parking of transport equipment on paid parking sites to meet the requirements of current legislation. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Main District Administration of Justice in the Kyiv Region, in connection with the abuse of the service position of the Bucharest City Head A.P. Fedoruk, through the illegal change in the target destination of the land of the State Forest Fund of Ukraine, and their inclusion in the categories of public and residential land that led to the millions of damage to the State of Ukraine. Yurya Solovya and Alexia Honcharenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of sources of funding for separatist terrorist groups in the ATO zone, by means of the breakdown of VAT-based budget funds, using financial schemes with the participation of the Union Trade Groups and the TU "Ukrespezmet". Groups of National Deputies (Sumar, Chervakov and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of a flagrant violation of the rules of effective information legislation in the restructuring of the State Enterprise, "The Ukrainian Television Studio "The Shretelefilm" (acting as Director-General of Petrenko W.M.), which has become possible as a result of the actual inactivity of the law enforcement authorities, impedes the carrying out of a mandatory valuation of the assets of the DP "USTF "Strictlefilm", the completion of the first stage of the creation of the Social Television and radio broadcasting of Ukraine and negatively affects the international authority of Ukraine. Victor Vuka to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, for the use of urgent measures, the objective investigation, and the involvement of officials of the Department of Civil Protection and the defence work of the Cherka District Administration involved in corruption. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the maintenance of the medical staff and the bed fund of the Krasilów Central District Hospital of Hmelnitsk. Andrija Lopushanski to the Kiev city head for banning the holding of an auction for the sale of premises rented by the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists on Antonovic Street, 3-B in Kiev. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to allocate additional subsidies to the budgetary institutions of veterinary medicine in the Lviv region. Olega Petrenko and Maxima Polakov to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Protection of Social Protection of Fighters 53, a separate mechanized brigade, as well as participants in volunteer battalions that defended independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and participated directly in the ATO zone. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the lack of adequate conditions for the movement of people with limited capabilities. Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the critical state of health of 13-year-old Ricka Caterina Sergiyivna and providing material assistance to parents for the immediate treatment of their daughter in specialized hospitals abroad. We've completed the announcement of the MP's request. In accordance with the Rules, I hereby declare a recess. The extension of the sitting will take place at 12 o’clock for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u61	We're continuing our work. Vote. Please prepare for it. Yes, I'd like you to prepare for the recording of the performances on "Variance." Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. I'd like you to make a recording of the performances in "The Miscellaneous." National Deputy Kudlainko, Sergey Kudlainko, Party of Peter Prashenko. Oh, come on.?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u63	People's MP Goncharenko, Peter Poshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Goncharenko, the block of Petra Dustenka. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention once again to the very important situation that lies around the Odesky Portage Factory. Today Parliament has adopted the Privatisation Act and our government officials, and has not been suspended until now, have made statements that the first object to be privatized is the Odeski Przytrza. I'm an official MP, I'm asking a few questions, and I want to say again today from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and I want to say that the privatisation of the Odeski Portal Factory without a mandatory environmental audit can't be carried out. This is a crime because the Odessa Airport is Europe's largest amiacoshoshotel with a capacity of 120,000 tons, 15 kilometres from the nearest buildings of Odessa's multi-story buildings. And the disaster at the Odessa Port Facility can have a cross-border impact. So any action with objects such as the Odessa Port Facility, which is listed as the 100 most dangerous enterprises in Ukraine under the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act, should be preceded by a mandatory environmental audit, the conclusions of which should be reflected in the terms of privatization. This is a direct legislative norm. Regrettably, no one is conducting, or ordering, a mandatory environmental audit of the Odessa Porting Plant today, but they are telling us about the privatization of the Odessa Porting Plant. I demand once again that our government officials do the proper procedure to protect the Odessa from a possible environmental disaster, and only then can they say something about the privatization of the Odessa import plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u65	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Shurma, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u66	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Respectful colleagues, no one’s secret to health care, are concerned with the provision of medical services. And it is very important that the leaders of our country, from the President of Ukraine to each doctor, have a general, shared view of health care. On "the day of the government," I asked twice the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the need for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Concept, or road map, as needed to carry out reforms. Unfortunately, there was no answer, only that within a year and a half, the Ministry of Health was able to present its project on Nacradia. Within a year and a half, all medical personnel are left in all public and public health institutions. People don’t understand how you should count on your strength today or on government funds when you get to the hospital. I don't want to put a once-in-a-lifetime discontent on the Cabinet of Ministers today, but when the Prime Minister of Ukraine does not directly answer the question when the concept is approved, it looks like he's evading responsibility and, in principle, looking in a different direction than the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Why is common ground needed? During all the years of independence, the ministry changed 19 ministers. Each minister of health planned his own vision and proposed his own reforms to be undertaken in Ukraine. And then, the next one came -- he said absolutely different things. This requires that the concept of health care be adopted so that, regardless of its name, every next minister, and that it changes as slowly as possible, stability must be taken, step by step, to change. There was a meeting yesterday between members of the Health Committee and experts from the World Health Organization. Malika came as the chief economist of the European Regional Bureau. She said that without the approval of the state program, it was nonsense to put in the hall and introduce some of the other bills. It is unknown where the health system will continue to develop. And an example of this is when the Prime Minister says that the important law is "On a mandatory national social health insurance" and two hours later, at a meeting of the committee, the minister says it's premature to do so. I don't know. Is it possible to look for compromising points of view today? Just one thing: In the past six months, the committee has made a four - time assessment of the unsatisfying minister of health for reforms and medical conditions. A humane question for the Cabinet of Ministers and the governing coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u67	Thank you. National MP Yuri Derevyanko, nonfractional
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u68	Yuri Derevyanco, political party of Will. Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, and respected residents of the united territorial communities! I would like to inform you about the progress of the decentralization reform in the area of land transfer outside the populated areas of the united territorial communities. What I'm saying is that behind all these political periphery and the crisis that we have today, the possible resignation of a government that has been failed, the exit of a coalition, the various political speculations, the reform of decentralization in this part is being sabotaged. And the blame for this is that agrarian lobby, and not just in parliament, and the government's 100 percent non-interest in meeting its obligations to strengthen the communities of the united territorial communities, the ones that are united, and to fulfil the commitments the government has made to the Ukrainian people and to these communities. For almost two months in a row from the high rostrums of the Speaker of the Supreme Council, there is a need to include 3510 and 3510-1 in the agenda. Everyone smiles, everyone says: yes, of course, important bills, we have to vote, but the process is going on as long as possible. Regrettably, the committee so far had not adopted any decision, and yesterday the committee considered once again these two important bills were united and, at best, they would be considered only in March of the month. I want to say that since 2012, since the beginning of 2013, Janukovitch has built the most terrible corruption scheme that relates to the distribution and management of land outside of the populated area, and this corrupt scheme is effectively, firstly, the State-Coembre, and now the State-Cadastrom is operating. These are the huge sums of bribes that are charged to the land that are managed without local councils, without the general opinion of local councils. So in order to overcome this corruption, we propose that the Supreme Council and the government take a decisive first step: to give land to united territorial communities according to Bills 3510 and 3510-1. I want to say that this corruption has a very strong influence, and these are the important things we feel here in Parliament. I very much hope that those MPs who are part of the agrarian committee are aware that this needs to be overcome and aware that such decisions need to be adopted. I look forward to the support of all the members of the Supreme Council so that we can solve this problem in March. But I would like us not only to smile and everyone to talk loudly about our support for our united territorial communities but, in fact, to do so. Because these are the steps that united communities and all those who still want to unite are expected of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u69	Thank you. National MP Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We all worked in the districts last week. I had many meetings, I had dealings with people, I had contact with representatives of local governments, I had contact with representatives and managers of the same utilities. In particular, I was asked a lot of questions in Mirrod. I also met with the city’s head, Sergey Solomach, and representatives of the city’s municipal enterprises. There was a very serious and difficult situation. In particular, this is a matter of compensation to utilities for services provided to the population, including subsidies. These companies, these services give subsidies to the population, but the state doesn't grant them compensation, and subsidies from the state budget don't come to these companies. This problem was also addressed to me by the Peacebuilding City Council. What's the situation? I also raised a similar problem from the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament last plenary week. A similar difficult situation occurred in the city of Zynkov, which is also my constituency. Debts from utilities are huge. To this day, if the brothers in Myrgorod, the debts owed to the communists amount to about 10 million dollars. In particular, this is "Mirgotopénergo" – almost 7 million dollars, "Mirgodrocanal" – 1.8 million, "Mirgorodépérnergo" – 400,000, and "specialcommunal" – 100,000. These are huge funds for these utilities. As a result, they have debt for energy. They have, in these companies, debts on wages to their employees. And they grow, their creditor grows, their debt goes up. And as a result, the collective is suffering, and this could turn into a huge problem and collapse for the city of Kurort, for the city of district, for the city of Mirgorod. Debt should necessarily be closed, and such subsidies should come from the state budget. There is now even a warning to the managers of these companies that the gas supply from the gas-supply organizations will be cut off. This will have a very negative impact on the provision of services to these businesses. So I made a formal request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a solution to this problem, essentially, to take steps to solve this problem. Yesterday, we solved a very important issue with tax transportation, a very important issue. So I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should not stand outside and necessarily a problem of compensation for utilities, I think it's not just the city of Mirgrod, it's not just the city of Zynkow, it's a problem in the state at all. It needs to be complex and decided essentially. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u71	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u72	Dear friends, on this sad day of the two-year anniversary of the biggest victims in Ukraine in general on peaceful protests, I would like to inform you of the state of the investigation of this crime, of all the crimes that were actually committed against the Dignity Revolution. If we had mentioned earlier that there are tremendous problems in investigating these cases, there is a lack of commitment on the part of politicians to take care of the issue, a reluctance to take responsibility for their subjects, there is actually a catastrophe today. Of course, it must be repeated that the minister of internal affairs of Habakkuk covered those Berkuts who were both witnesses and participants in the shootings of the Midianites, helped them avoid criminal responsibility, helped them to avoid interrogations at the Attorney General’s Office, and helped to ensure that those investigators investigating the Maydan cases did not have access to them. Similarly, we should mention the role of President Prashenko, who traditionally manages the Public Prosecutor's Office by hand and does not give priority to investigating crimes against the Dignity Revolution. But unfortunately, we can talk now, and we need to talk about the new colossal legislative problems of investigation. I'll remind you that since March 1, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, the prosecution's authority to conduct investigations has disappeared. It is stipulated in legislation that the State Bureau of Investigation should be established. Based on the experience we had with creating an anti-corruption office, by the way, this process is far from being completed. So this is the Anti-Corruption Bureau -- almost a year and a half before even the first results started. What about such a monster who is to be created under the name of the State Bureau of Investigation? It's like at least another year. What does it mean, at least a year? This means that all procedural periods will pass. That means we're going to have to apologize to the Gardener, to Kusuk, in front of all these criminals, and release them, and compensate for their troubles that they've created with their own investigation. This is what it means. So, colleagues, so, Ukrainian citizens, I urge you to pay attention to this problem. We need to immediately adopt adequate "Transitional positions", continue the procurator's mandate to investigate and, in fact, continue to work in this regard. I will say that without parliamentary control, it is impossible to do so. And it is the creation of a parliamentary commission that is blocked, especially by Mr. Groissman, in this Parliament, by investigating the obstacles that are being investigated, that is a key task for today. We need to create a commission that will help at Parliament level, at the level of national investigators who are conscientiously investigating crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u73	Thank you. People's MP Ivan Sporish, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u74	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear people of Ukraine, honourable members of the people, I think it's going to be very difficult for us to go to the county today, and again we're going to have, almost three weeks, we're not going to be here in Parliament, we're going to be doing committee work, we're going to be doing district work, we're going to be doing district work, and we're going to be explaining to people why we're not going to work. Again, even today, there are majors. Even today, we majors, and in the district, people, they don't ask what you're taking there anymore, they say, "Why don't you go to work?".. And you know how common it is that even such bills as 4042, where we have addressed Parliament and foreign states, the Parliamentary Assembly of International Organizations, and so on, the condemnation of Russia's aggression, there is no one to vote on. Or another bill is 4071, where the fate of our hostages is true, and we can't really vote for it. Well, thank God we voted for these bills. But anyway, what we're getting is our Parliament -- it's already European, it's European. We're used to being in Poland when we're looking at those five people sitting in parliament -- that's what we've seen -- and at 9:00 in the evening they're calling and saying, "Come on, there's a vote coming." We'll get to it soon. I think let's walk: that Wednesday, that Friday we should be at work, because, really, people are expecting us to do it. And I'd also like to look very much at our television, the journalists, the political scientists, the experts, the different shows that we're going through. Like "Shuster Life," "Freedom of speech" and stuff. So that we can speak our things, indeed, truthfully in our proper words. So we know very well that Europe has already recognized Russia as an aggressor, and we're saying today that there are some fighters there, that these are some LNRovci, DNRovci, etc. Let's tell the truth. Let's say that Putin attacked the country. Let's say it's a roadside weapon that destroyed our soldiers again today. That this is a ton of weapons that have fired fire on this area of Lugansk and Donetsk today. We're saying there's more fighters than that. I would very much like us to say things with our names, and it would be fair for the people of Ukraine to hear all the Europeans and others see the truth. This morning, I saw really early humanitarian aid from Ahmutov to Lugansk, the Donetsk region. It is heartwarming that he provides such help. But somehow when humanitarian aid comes from Ukraine, the LNRovci, the LNRovci, do not let it in. And he goes there freely, and he's given the honor at the border and everything else. Let him help, but who knows who he is helping, and why he goes so freely to that area of Lugansk and the Donetsk region. Don't we get it? We understand that very well. I'd like to say more to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u75	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u76	..for nightly electricity tariffs in the villages. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister's office, listen to the people, the differences, because there's gonna be theft, it's gonna be crazy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u77	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Gus, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u78	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. I want to address the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko. Mr. President, there's been a problem with your administration, and for over a year we can't reach you or Lozkin or the responsible employees. The committee I belong to in foreign affairs emphasizes the tenth: How long will we wait for you to be born by your decision to appoint ambassadors of Ukraine? There is no ambassador in Belarus. There is no ambassador in Belarus, Peter Alexiyovich, a year! How long can we wait? This is the country we have the border with, this is the country that has an alliance with the Russian Federation. How Belarus is. Do we have a geopolitical battle against Russia? Hungary. What, we don't know what the situation is in Hungary, in Zakarpatta. You don't need a job there? The year is gone. Kazakhstan is now one of the key states in the geopolitical war with Russia. Here we go: Georgia. What, were all the Georgians brought back here, or were they taken, and there was no need for a Ukrainian who would be an ambassador to defend our interests? Switzerland is a key country in economic contexts. And a dozen other countries where there are no Ukrainian ambassadors. For example, as deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I understand that a month should be spent looking for a candidate. Okay, two months, three months, four. Well, I'm sorry, it's a year to not find a candidate for ambassador in the key countries, the more neighbor countries, sorry, it's a collapse! Peter Alexiyovich, I demand the release of the responsible officials of the President's Administration who are conducting this issue because this is a disgrace to the Ukrainian state. I've told Minister Klimkin three times, he says we're filing all the relevant documents with the President's Administration, it's not our jurisdiction, it's someone sitting there. To be honest, I understand that there are some sort of anti-revolutionaries in the Presidential Administration. I don't know what to call them, people who are ruining our international policy. That's why I'm asking you, Tim. The sooner, the better, you assign ambassadors to those countries that I've named and those that are on the list. If not, I think at a new meeting of the Supreme Council we are forced by the committee and all interested parties to block this rostrum and demand the rapid appointment of ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u79	Thank you. People's deputy, Dmitri Lubinets, faction of Peter Dustenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u80	Good afternoon! Lubinets Dmitry Valerievich, electoral district number 60, Donetsk Region. Thank you very much for having the courage to stay until the end of the day and to live up to the hopes of their constituents. [[Applause]] On the other hand, let the voters see who is actually coming to work. In the Donetsk region, farmers, in addition to all the problems that exist, this is also a war, this and the lack of any concessional financial opportunities in the Donetsk region, have received another very big problem that I would like to mention. These are the lands that we last year (we are the State of Ukraine) have occupied under fortification facilities. They did so very quickly, not always following legitimate methods, but nevertheless, in most cases the land is human pai, it is private property. So last year, farmers, on their own initiative both in Donetsk and in Lugansk, paid people rent, paid even the State income tax on these rations. They were promised that this problem would be resolved last year. It came in 2016, already in spring: neither compensation for the money paid, nor compensation for the land occupied, nor for the farmers. At the moment, it all looks like this, you know, in the Donetsk region, we're risking a social riot in the war when thousands of people are told that no one will pay you for pies this year, no pies are processed, no pies are occupied with fortification facilities. What will remain of the people? There will be one additional rebellion, further indignation by our actions as the authorities and the State of Ukraine. Of course, we don't have to do this and we have to do something about it right now. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask all members of the people to support my request. First, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop procedures for compensation to people for renting rations or to farmers if they pay for the rent themselves. What is the total area of land occupied under fortification facilities, and most importantly, how much additional land is planned, if any, for humans in the Donetsk region? It is not even important for people to obtain financial compensation for their pies, as it is important to obtain at least the same amount of land elsewhere. The Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, did not do all of this last year and only started this year. All members of the people, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u81	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u82	To join this initiative, because it is not only Donetsk, Luhansk region, that is for all of us, it will be an additional social explosion in Donetsk, Lugansk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u83	Thank you. People's MP Mikola Lušnjak, Petra Prashenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u84	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th constituency, Ternopilščina. Dear Ukrainian people, Madam Chairman, distinguished national deputies! For a year I have been fighting like a fish on ice and asking for the Cabinet of Ministers, and not just me, but many of our colleagues, to spoil the land of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. What is happening to them today? Contracts are being renegotiated for a year, and people who have their legal right to produce pies cannot obtain them. These people who have given their lives to science, these people who have worked for 40 to 50 years, they can't take their constitutional rights and rip out that piece of land that they've earned with their blood and then. In particular, this is the Delilah Research Station, which we have in Ternopilsland, the Hussetin region. People go with turns and write. I have personally addressed the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of the APC, on several occasions. There are no answers. I ask the Ministry of the APC today to introduce a bill to ensure that the land of the Academy of Agrarian Sciences and not only those who have been waiting for it for decades, and their constitutional law has been established. Let's move on. We used to have one. In Ukraine, the cologne forests, especially in my district, are more than 5,000 acres [5,000 ha] of forests. I don't know if we can call it forests anymore, because they're bushes. No one is responsible for them. They're no one's subordination, the Forest Agency has nothing to do with them, the administration doesn't, they're just forests, empty forests. They're cut off, they're destroyed. The executives are appointed by the administration, they have no functional responsibilities, no resources. We're just killing the planet's lungs with our own hands today. I'm asking you, I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Minister of the Agro-industry complex, to legislate and put these woods on the balance of the forest agency, or there'll be a desert soon. What happened today in Ukraine’s 2016 budget? They forgot to fund the forest sector and transferred part of it to finance forest holdings in Western Ukraine. This is, in particular, Kharkiv Air Force Base, which is involved in the suppression of fires. They have lost their funding today. They're project institutes. Why are those 400 million bracelets today being transferred to the forest agencies of Ternopil, Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv region? For them, it is a heavy burden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u85	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u86	.ministers make changes to Ukraine's budget and fund at least partially. The fourth question is, there's a keg sanatorium in Ternopolska. Four and a half million debt per salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, you must adjust your time. Please, 10 seconds, and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u88	..to remember, to pay the wages. People have saved up this sanatorium at their own expense. Remember, make it up to you. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u89	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking only on the basis of my personal appeal. I'm sorry, or we won't be okay. Please, National Deputy Vasjunik. Ivan Vasilik. Ivan Vasjunik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, Ukraine, on February 6, the Forum of Public Organizations, VII of the Forum of Public Organizations, was held in Lviv. The theme of the forum was to assess the social and political situation in the country 2 years after Maidan. And according to the results of this forum, I was obliged to announce the declaration that was adopted in this forum. "To meet the dramatic challenges of time, to stabilize the situation, to unite the efforts of all statesmen to defeat the external and internal enemy, the forum of public organizations is considered necessary. First of all, don't let each other fight in a national patriotic camp. The first prerequisite for our victory is the strong unity, the consolidacy of the nation. It is necessary to condemn harshly any provocative action that leads to disunity and chaos. The other one. We need to mobilize the nation against the enemy and change the country, create a strong fighting army. By working together in civil society and in power, we can quickly and decisively carry out a complete delligarchy, as quickly as possible and as radically as possible to eradicate corruption. Four. In response to Russian information aggression, it is urgent to set up an effective counterpropaganda and to expand the media’s educational activities accordingly. Stop the cultural expansion of Russia, narrow down the use of Ukrainian in the media, and other areas of life. Fifth. Perform full re-launch of the judicial branch of power. Six. An open and honest dialogue between the authorities and the people, especially when making unpopular decisions, the leaders of the State need to explain their motives in a broad and reasoned manner, responding in a timely manner to the challenges of time. Seven. Develop and implement an effective national patriotic and military education programme immediately. Eight. Do not allow any further government service to be held in the leading positions of members of the anti-Ukrainian parties, former "regionals" and communists and their active supporters. To find and punish the murderers of the peaceful people in Maidan, to bring criminal responsibility as accomplices to the killings of all the members of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the "dictators' laws" on 6 January, which caused the death of the Heavenly 100. Nine. Concentrate your efforts and costs on helping ATO participants. The authorities should limit their excessive entertainment, expensive shopping parties, and luxury parties. Every saved penny has to go to the front. Ten. It is not possible to hold parliamentary elections for the term, to change the Constitution for the sake of Russia. This could further destabilize the situation in the country and lead to a deterioration in the socio-economic situation, the activation of the pro-Russian forces. Eleven. At this critical time, every Ukrainian must take responsibility for the country’s fate. So let's start creating a mass public movement for strengthening national unity, preserving the state, fighting corruption, winning over the outside and the inner enemy. Twelve. The Ukrainian authorities need to gather an appropriate evidence base and address the world community with a strong demand that President Putin’s Hague tribunal be tried as an international terrorist. Fate gives us a third, perhaps last chance, to build an independent and powerful European Ukraine. We will not waste this opportunity, together we will realize the high ideals for which the Ukrainians died in Midan and continue to die in the struggle against the Russian invader.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u91	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u92	And we have no right to be disappointed. And I want to end with the thesis of Metropolitan Andrea: "The greatest danger is internal strife and fear of each other." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u93	Thank you. National MP Yuri Berez. He passed on the word to Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u94	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u95	You'll be right there. Why are you worried? Just before that, he passed on the word to Medunice. And now you'll be next, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u96	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u97	Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Borislav Bereza. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry. The Medunica National Deputy will be next. Borislav Bereza, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oksana. I want to draw your attention, two years later people were killed in the streets of Kiev. Two years later, here in Gruszewski, on Maidan, snipers killed people. The tires were on fire, the deputies were busy. And now there's nothing in the hall. I don't have anyone in the hall every Friday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, you are, I admit. But look how many of us are here now. I apologize, Your Honor, but less than 50 people are in the session room right now. Is that okay? No, it's not normal. Is it normal for governments to express distrust and then not resign? It's not normal either. Is it normal for a person to promise to change and reform the country, not to do so? It's crazy, too. Is it normal for a person to lie to his eyes? That's insane. I mean, we need to repent with you. Yes, you do. I walk the streets of Kiev every day, I see kyans. Like some of my colleagues. But I do know that there will be no government people coming to Midan tomorrow, from the government, no one at all. Very few nappies will be able to look people in the eyes tomorrow at Maidan. Because in two years they did not answer any questions: Who killed on Maidan, who gave orders to kill, who did. No one is condemned, nor is any person condemned, who has become involved in corruption scandals. No person who was caught in a bribe is condemned. No participant in corruption schemes is condemned. I'm ashamed. I want to apologize to the Ukrainians for not vindicating their hopes and hopes, but now is such a time that those who can muster up solidarity and make the only right decision for themselves -- this power needs to be reinstated, Kabmin, Parliament. We do not justify the trust we have been given. If that happens in a democratic society. The election is under way. So, Your Honor, we have to go to these reelections. And the electorate needs to figure out who made the promise, who did what. He who promised that he would not live without honor, but he who lives. And these elections will show whether there is confidence in those who are currently sitting in the Cabinet and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u99	Thank you. People's Deputy Medunica, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u100	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumska District. Dear colleagues, you know that at the time of the adoption of the state budget, we have foreseen enormous costs for the needs of national defence. Over 100 billion we've been aiming to raise wages, buy new forms, new weapons, build new barracks, make our military feed better. Instead, we see that these military are not exactly ready to work in a new way and change approaches to public procurement organizations at the Ministry of Defence. After we passed the Law on Electronic Procurement, we've already seen that at some trades, including the Ministry of Defense, companies, including foreign capital, are coming in, and they're giving a lot less money than those farm people, who were running around the Ministry of Defense, especially METRO Cash and Kerry, almost 30 percent less priced and they won a tender that they had previously served those firms that were selling their goods too expensive to feed the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But, unfortunately, it's probably a lonely case in the Ministry of Defense system. I want to tell you a story. History has to do with accountants in pursuits working at the Academy of Land Forces. armies in the name of Sagajdachny in Lviv. When an entrepreneur from the Sustina, Praise God, we already have a sausage in the army that gives us the lowest price, which is 30 percent less than the company that used to sell there, and now they're just taking it and closing it down because this entrepreneur won't pay off because he's setting up a minimum, because he knows that the Ministry of Defense has some kind of income. But the Ministry, the Department of Defense employees who work at this academy are not interested in having him put cheaper production into their facility and close these deals. What's more, on Monday they're having a bake sale, well, it's actually kind of funny. They wrote in technical terms that, well, you can't just find a normal person on your head. The pastry must be in the shape of a mushroom with a top. There's a chocolate hat, and there's got to be a concoction inside. We have only one entrepreneur in the Lviv region who produces this type of cookie. And then we're talking about corruption in the government of Yatsenuk. Now, when we don't lead all of us together to clean water, there will be no trust, not from people, not from business to Ukrainian authority. I demand the head of the Ministry of Defense to investigate these facts, to attract the guilty and to do so. There has never been such speculation in military procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u101	Thank you. National MP Oleg Musei, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u102	Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red Town, the constituency, the political party People's Control, is non-fractional. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I would like to continue the moral thesis that we have heard today from the previous speaker, Mr. Bereza. And we celebrate today, tomorrow in particular, the Day of Mass Fire by the previous regime of our Celestial Heroes. We called the Revolution of the Ukrainian People the Dignity Revolution. The word dignity and the concept of dignity lie not in political categories, but in a moral and ethical category. And this government that came to blood after the Dignity Revolution, and you and I, as parliamentarians who came to blood after the Dignity Revolution, should and would be obliged to be guided by the moral categories of dignity that we are often calling and sneezing before public speeches. Today we heard the minister of justice mentioning dignity. In fact, I want to say what the Ukrainian people think I'm talking to on the streets of Kiev every day in my major district. He, you know, calls this government after the Dignity Revolution? People who don't justify dignity are assholes. Hence, he calls it the government of the wicked. And the main villain of this government continues to look us in the eye, look into the eyes of the Ukrainian people, and tell us that there are some other preferences for him than the Ukrainian people, which he, by his actions, has led by his unworthy actions to disaster. You all remember, he's very often played on Maidan when he said, "I'm not going to live with shame." So I want to ask him right now in front of everyone, and the Ukrainian people ask him, you live with the disgrace of Arsenija Petrovich, you continue to live with shame, you disgrace the Heavenly 100, you disgrace the Maidan, you disgrace the dignity! You're not afraid, aren't you dreaming about the hundred people that were killed last night? You, this bastard who comes to the blood and leads the government of the villains, go into non-existence, as a minimum, and do not disgrace Ukraine in front of all the world. You think you'll get the money from our foreign friends with the IMF. You're thinking about why they're giving Greece ten times more, billions, because even there are Communists who came to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u103	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u104	. The Communists, Cyprus, who came to power, went with dignity when he had no support. But you have a conscience toward the Ukrainian people. I think the people have to say their own dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u105	National MP Ivan Rybak, Party of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u106	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! In this inhumane hall today, I'd like to say a few words that will actually express the shame of the Bukovinian country from which our Prime Minister is today. For no one is the secret that the head of the district government in the area is a representative of the political power that our prime minister is leading. But today, on Maidan's second anniversary, I've just learned information that probably isn't what it is. And there's no trust anyway. But in general shame, these people certainly don't. Today, the head of the district government has agreed to direct the forest sector in the Bukovin region to a man who was a member of the Party of the Regions in the Hottin region of Montenegro, a man who is said to have not even left the party. And today this person has been given the approval to lead the forest and hunting industry. I'm addressing the head of the district administration: Mr. Yakovetsk Viktor Alexanderovich, to whom you've given consent today, is the person who helped create these crimes two years ago in Maidan, the person who financed the anti-Majdan, who fueled buses and sent people to anti-Majdan. Alexander Grigorovich, what are you doing? Do you realize that after such acts, you undermine confidence, not in the Prime Minister, but in general undermine the trust of all society in all branches of government? Don't do this! Because if you don't stop, you'll be swept away too. And I would also like to say that today, Bukovina is the only region where we have not used the funds that we have with you, your honorary colleagues, allocated through the law on the extraordinary revenue experiment on the customs route. Today, there are 104 million dollars in accounts in the district administration that are not even available to date. for which even tender procedures have not been announced so that these roads can be repaired. And Putilščina, Vidynščina, Watchtower, Kitzmanščina are waiting for these repairs, waiting for this money. So, honourable colleagues, let's do the parliamentary control, but still push on the executive branch of power, and I think everything will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u107	Thank you. National MP Borislav Rosenblatt, faction of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u108	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Do you know what makes politics different from a statesman? You know. Politicians always think about the next election, and politicians think about the next generation. Today, when I address you, my colleagues, I would like first of all to gather not around the political leaders, but first of all around the political ideas, the problems of the Ukrainian people who are living today. Because today, when it comes to political, engagement, understanding the complexity of today's process, where there is virtually no government in the country today, because de jure can still exist, de facto, it doesn't exist. We just have to regroup today and start working on our nation's economy. Whatever the political passions we have here, but when people have no opportunity to live, for their existence, they will never applaud us in our lives. Because to them we are the same people who are doing everything today to make them feel poor and in danger. So today, I would like to urge all of us once again to seek the guidance of the Supreme Council to make economic laws our priority. I would like to address, first of all, faction leaders -- in the coalition they are, without coalition, but I would like to support the first laws that we should consider -- the economic ones that will create opportunities for jobs, opportunities for economic growth in our country, so that we can get ourselves out of these political crises at the expense of our money, not at the expense of the IMF and everyone else who demands us today. I want us to understand that we live in the richest country in the world, we live in the most beautiful country in the world, we live practically in paradise, but we cannot give peace to this country. So I urge and appeal, first of all, to you, distinguished political leaders, let us unite our country with our ideas and with the problems that people live with, that is, I am the only one that I want to address you with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u109	Thank you. People's MP Martovicki Arthur, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The territorial community of my constituency number 36, like many other Ukrainian cities, is concerned about the situation of the identification of the sources of public funding for citizens who, according to existing legislation, have the right to do so. In particular, the draft Code of Budgets for Ukraine provided for the extension of the powers of local self - government authorities in the area of the provision of liaison benefits, other, provided for by law, benefits and compensatory payments for the provision of individual categories of citizens and the reimbursement of these expenses to carriers at the expense of local budgets. In the process of drafting the bills introduced by the Government, the Supreme Council has retained the right in legislation to extend these categories of citizens and other benefits to cover these expenses at the expense of the State Budget. However, Ukraine's "For Ukraine's State Budget 2016" law does not provide for a corresponding subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets. Moreover, as of January 1, 2016, the creditor’s debt to carriers for the benefit granted in 2015 alone in Pavlovgrad, Dnipropetrovska District, amounts to 266,000 dollars. The need for financial security for social benefits for the population, for example, for this year's Pavlovrada for 2016 is 4 million 135 thousand dollars, including for the transport of citizens' pension categories 3 million 500,000 dollars. The cost of the city budget for the financing of the expenditure is not sufficient, taking into account the changes made to Ukraine's legislation on increasing the network of institutions held at the expense of the city budget, yesterday the Supreme Council was voted on as a basis and as a whole bill 4024 on the financing of the debt passage, but the law is only a correction of government errors and does not address the systemic problem of taxpayers. Therefore, with a view to preserving the benefits to individual categories of citizens, avoiding social tensions in the cities of our country, and taking into account the limited financial resources in the city budgets to cover payments to carriers, I call on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make and amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 in part of the renewal of the state funding of the benefits to individual categories of citizens for the services and other provided for in the legislation of the aid and compensation payments to carriers for the benefit of separate categories of citizens on the basis of subsidies from the State Budget to the local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u111	Thank you. National MP Ivan Krulko, faction of the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u112	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We all talk a lot about the fact that judges who break an oath who made illegal decisions against the court against the participants in Automidan should be released for violating an oath. How does the system work at this point? At this point, the Supreme Court of Judges proposes to the High Council of Justice, which, in turn, submits either to the Supreme Council or to the President for the release of the relevant judges. Unfortunately, today this mechanism is actually blocked. Why? Because the Supreme Administrative Court annuls virtually all decisions of the Supreme Court of Judges with a recommendation on the dismissal of judges. And his decision in these matters, according to today’s order, is not being accused, is final. In doing so, the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Council, the President, the High Council of Justice, the Qualificational Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors may be reviewed by the Supreme Court, but not by the Higher Qualification of Judges. There is absolutely no logic in this. And I'd like to give you just a few examples lately. On October 20, 15, the Supreme Administrator overturned the decision of the Supreme Court of Judges concerning Judge Vladimir Shumko, who, with gross violations of the law, made a decision in absentia to deprive the participant of Automidan's rights. On November 23, 15, the Supreme Administrator overturned the decision of the Supreme Court of Judges regarding the odinous judge of the Lutsky Regional Court, Vitaly Kovtunenko. The decision of the Supreme Court of Judges was based on a number of violations: both cases concerning the participants of Maidan, and violations of the question of the prosecution, and the failure to comply with the demands of the DAI employee. Remember when the judge waved his identification to the DAI employee? On January 18 of this year, the Supreme Administrator overturned the recommendation made by the Supreme Qualification of Judges regarding the judge of the Obolon District Court of Olga Shortova, who took charge of the groundless beatings in the Kripos Strait of European Activists. And these are just isolated examples. This is increasing and increasing. What do I want to say? A group of national deputies has been introduced to Parliament by the draft Law 4052, which allows the Supreme Court to consult the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, this week we're not going to consider this project, although it was introduced and it was extremely important for consideration right now. For three weeks now, Parliament will be working in a different regime, but not in plenary. So I would like to look to the public activists to put pressure on Parliament to consider as a basis and as a whole the law and to give it the opportunity to solve these issues in any way. But of course this is a point decision, it does not systematically solve the problem of reforming the judicial branch of power. I believe that only a full re-launch of the judicial branch of power -- from district and city courts, first-instance courts to higher courts and the Supreme Court -- can provide an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u113	Ten seconds, Ivan, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u114	..solve the systemic issue of judicial reform. Until then, we will continue to find grounds for a circular message when judges break their oaths and their superior judges reinstate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u115	Thank you. The word here is "Peter Dust Block" by Jolebeck Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u116	Deputy Želobecki, District 129, Nikolayev, Nikolayev region. Dear colleagues, in my constituency 129, the State-owned 61-communary plant, which is one of the largest in Ukraine, is of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State. The factory is part of the Ucrobronprom State Concert. Unfortunately, this factory is in critical condition today, all property. All of the factory's assets have been arrested for collection of 37 million bracelets of debt from the enterprise. Criminal proceedings have been initiated in respect of the fact that the property plant has been destroyed, and that the employees of the plant have been dispossessed in a particularly large manner. For what or why has such an important enterprise been in such a position? About a year ago, a new director, Fedor Petrov, was appointed to the company. After his appointment, the situation in the company only deteriorated. A person has been appointed to the post of Director-General of the 61-communary Shipbuilding Plant, who has nothing to do with the construction, which does not even have a profile education. And this man was involved in a major fraud involving another Star-Mashproject State plant. A few years ago, his firm received overpayments of about 4 million grevens, which did not place equipment on the Zora factory-Mashprojekt, and the money was then transferred to an Austrian company that had a direct bearing on it. Therefore, a logical question arises. How could this person have been awarded a contest, and how could he have been appointed to our country's last civil court building plant? It is also worth paying attention to the conflict that has arisen today between the new director and the labour force. The Director is subject to mass dismissals of professionals, with gross violations of labour law. The factory workers are in fear because tomorrow they can be dismissed for no reason. The wage arrears for January 2016 amount to about 17 million grevens. The facts that I have heard must be verified by law enforcement authorities. They should be given a legal assessment. And if the Director-General of the Shipbuilding Plant is indeed involved in financial fraud, if the inspection reveals that he has committed unlawful acts, the Ucroboropram management will have to explain why he was appointed Director of the Strategic Enterprise. I want to say the same thing. In the towers today, Director Ucroboronproma said that I was allegedly lobbying for the interests of this factory. I want to say yes, it's true. I lobbied the interests of the 700 people who haven't been paid a salary in this company in years. I'm lobbying so this factory doesn't get another Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u117	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u118	The construction plant, which in its time was privatized by Russian capital and now belongs to Novinsky, who is also in this room. I don't want the fate of the 61st factory to reach the fate of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Lobbying, lobbying and lobbying everything that is related to the interests of my city of Nikolayev and the people who live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u120	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. In fact, these days are extremely tragic, most tragic days certainly in the history of our nation when the Celestial 100 died. And these days we are forced to think about, and what happened in the next two years, and whether we have actually approached those ideals, the values that were sacred to those people who went to Gruszewski, went to the Institute, which was here in the Park of Marien 18 numbers, which was on the night of the 19th of Maydan, when the House of Trades was burning, and when "Berkut" was coming, who with wooden shields was climbing the Institute's morning 20 numbers. And what do we see in Parliament today? We see an oligarchic conspiracy. We see a government that has completely discredited itself, which has lost the balance of some rating or national support, which today is totally illegal, which has received even an unsatisfactory assessment from Parliament, but still thanks to the political conspiracy and the vote of the oligarchs and the same regionals that have not voted in favour of its resignation, in fact by carrying out a public manifesto that this government is the government of the oligarchs. Because they tell us about reforms all the time, they tell us all the time that we have deligarization. Only something oligarchs can tell. They are very much being set up by the deligarchisation of today's authorities, because they support it, they don't vote for it, they continue its artificial existence, and they deepen the political crisis. After February 16, we're not just in this Parliament, I mean MPs who didn't vote in favour of resigning the government, they didn't just take away the political tension in society, they did it much deeper. And today we are in a deep political crisis, and this political crisis is no longer a crisis of government or parliament, it is a crisis of confidence in everyone without excluding the institutions of power. And it's very scary, and it's very symbolic, and it's very bad in this respect, the tragic symbolism that all of this was illustrated in the second anniversary of the Mayan deaths. Therefore, only a full reintroduction, only a return to what the people themselves have to say through elections, will save the Ukrainian state today from the political collapse that is unfortunately coming back. Therefore, it is not necessary to be afraid of overcrowding, but we must go to it and understand that the people must speak their word. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u121	Heroic glory! Semenchenko, Self-help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u122	In December 2015, the Supreme Council voted on the Law on the Appointment of Early Elections in the Horn of Krivo. History with the Horn of Curve has shown all the depravity and crisis of Ukraine's political system, large-scale contractors, falsifications, violations of the rule of law. And people who did not agree to this have caught the whole of Ukraine's attention. At that time, virtually no public authority could defend the right of people to choose the power for which they voted not to be puppeteers in the hands of puppeteers who appointed them to lead the city, the region, the country. At that time, neither the courts, the police, the prosecutor's office, the local elections, nor the Central Electoral Commission could protect people's right to freedom of choice. This right has been protected only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Indeed, large-scale falsifications were recognized in the election of the city head. It's been a few months. What's going on now? There's an attempt. Preparations for large-scale falsifications, new and no counterfeiters shall be punished. All criminal cases that have been initiated on the basis of manipulations, frauds have not been brought to an end. People whose names have become reprehensible, who have led local elections, who have actually been removed under pressure from their election management, have returned to their posts. And those who fought, fought on the street, fought on the side of Parliament, fought in the courts, and began massive repressions. We see that the same technologies are now being used in the Horn of Curve that have led to what is now called the "Russian Spring" on Donbassa. The whole city is surrounded by billboards, supposedly on behalf of Self-Help, with the phrase "self-help" coming in the Galician order." That is to say, the same third-class technology is actually being used, which is a source of conflict between the alleged foreigners and the local people. The distribution of leaflets with information about the alleged census of Jewish nationals. There's a huge lie through the public media about what's coming. That the Chechens want to take the city. 500 bracelets are distributed to each person in the form of urban programs. But most importantly, instead of planting counterfeiters, reprisals against Automaidana activists began against social activists. And today, at 3 p.m., a court is going through, choosing a measure of deterrence against the leader of the local Automidan, Anton Kravchenko, who is accused of slightly bodily harm to the workers of the Creature Police. We appeal to the head of the National Police of Hatiya Deconaidze to take control of the falsification cases that were launched in December and November 2015 to finally show people that there is justice and that it can be sought not only in the street but also in the courtroom. We turn, too, to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u123	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u124	...has taken control of the Anton Kravchenko case to prevent investigators of the national police from participating in the political repressions. Today, there are very few real reforms that the people of Ukraine can look forward to. And the high trust of the National Police should not be undermined by the desire of local princes to shut their mouths. I also call on those people's deputies who have helped then poachers to defend those who are now being repressed to accept the pledges of activists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before giving the next word, I would like to consult. Look, I can continue the session until 2:00 p.m. But so that we can clearly reconcile the list, because it can't be an infinite list. Let's have five shows, to Gerasimov, we can still have another one. I remember, yes. My colleagues, look, this is now the Sotnik, Sevrukov, Rybchin, Medunica, Romanov and the Radical Party, which are six performances. Will there be any objections in the hall if we limit them? That's exactly the term we can get into. [[B in m in s a l in]] If there's no Rybkin, I'll give you the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u126	Instead of the Medina, he passed on the word of Crimson, he is. Colleagues, just so we don't have that kind of discussion in front of the other. If that's how we do it, is everybody okay? No offense in the hall? Then on Romanovy, who passes the word to Oksani Siroid, I give to the Radical Party, and we're done. All right, fellas? Please, Ednak. All right, Ednak. Even the Radical Party, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u127	No, it's not possible, I'm still out of line. I'm sorry, but I had to consult to discuss our rules. And I'd like to invite you to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u128	My speech isn't political today, it's dedicated to the three guys that put me in Parliament. This is Basil Moses, John Panteleeu, and Andrew Chernenko. These are three guys who died on January 18th and 20th, sorry, February 2014. This is my tribute to them, I just want the Ukrainian people to remember not only them -- the entire Celestial 100, but also their names. Basil Moses is the guy who died with a smile on his face, so says his friend who took him from the Yellow Palace. In fact, boy 22 years old, and I have a picture of him dead in my iPad. It is very clear that the bullet came through his chest, almost saved by a cross on his body. Sadly, though, even this cross did not withstand this deadly bullet. I'm so sorry that we're talking politics these days, and we don't appreciate what we didn't do to you. Do you remember that phrase, "You should not be ashamed of their deaths"? I'm ashamed of their deaths. I appreciate that every day, but in these days especially. We did nothing from what we had to do to at least perpetuate their memory. They don't need monuments. They died for Ukraine, they died for a new Ukraine to be here. And they believed that. I ask you very much to remember this. I ask you very much to honor them with a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u129	We honor the memory of our heroes. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Vladislav Severykov, Block of Petra Poshenko. Rybchin passed it on to Volodymyr Parasuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u130	I'm going to be very brief. I just want to say that it hurts these days when all of Ukraine mentions these tragic heroic days that have taken place on Maidan. You know, today is Friday, and I'm very sorry that why the parents of the Celestial 100 say: "Our children, our relatives are heroes of Ukraine." I say, "Yes, they're heroes of Ukraine." "And why are those who killed them, this filth, these sales MPs who voted in favour of the laws of January 16, they're also heroes of Ukraine?" This is our responsibility as a parliament. Do you know why that is? Because on Friday we cannot gather 226 people and simply vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine to cancel these shameful decisions. [[Applause]] We can say different words about the Celestial 100th, we can mention them 100 times every day, but does that match those words? I'm convinced that maybe this will happen to someone, and yet we'll get together and realize that we owe them the debt we owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u131	Thank you. The Medunka conveys the word to the deputy of Kryvoshea. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! By joining those words, in fact, in memory of the heroes, I would like to keep some of them in mind. I would like us to understand for whom everything that was done two years ago, and for whom is all that protection, and all that soul and body that soldiers are giving up today, for whom they're doing it in the first place. They're not doing this for you and me, not for the MPs. They're doing this for our children, first of all. And speaking of that, I'd like to focus on my children's education today, a project called "My Ukraine." Donetsk, Lugansk, Déržinsk, Lisichansk, Shahtarsk are all our hometowns, Kramatorsk, Slavyansk. Today, ATO participants were present at this event. And you know what the most painful thing to hear from them was? The most painful thing was to hear her say that someone's doing the wrong thing, not whether the President's doing the wrong thing, whether the government is doing the wrong thing, or the Parliament's doing the wrong thing, they're not talking about the factions, they're not talking about the coalitions, they're talking about only one thing, they're talking about peace. They speak of peace and understanding. They have an understanding. We don't have an understanding here with you. And so I, actually passing on their words, would like to urge everyone, first of all politicians, to understand and connect in order not to ruin our country. In order not only to fight, but also to hinder and fight for the interests of our children with you. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u133	Heroic glory! Thank you. Romanova gives the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u134	The participants in this hall mention those days, speak of our responsibility for what has not changed. I think it is very important not only to speak but also to bear this responsibility. Today, the three attorney generals after Euromaidan have been planted by two Azerbaijanis, who were caught along with other aunts near the Petrovka Metro. That's all. There are no more prisoners among the executioners or organizers of the Euromanydan. There are six other convicted Jaguars who stripped the Cape of Gabrieluk. More results from Vitali Jarem, Victor Shokin, Oleg Magnetic and all those who appointed them and put them in positions of responsibility, primarily for investigating and punishing those crimes, are no longer the result of these officials. Now everyone knows that after the enormous pressure we have had, after even greater pressure on people. After unprecedented pressure from Western diplomats led by the United States government, Victor Shockin filed a resignation application. Similarly, it is well known that the President of Ukraine, who has already appointed two general prosecutors who have failed to investigate the crimes of Eromaydan, who have covered up all those who have organized and committed these crimes, who have covered up everyone against whom people have gone to Midan, all who have robbed the state, today Peter Poroshenko wants to appoint another friend of his as Attorney General. I think it's a huge task for this Parliament not to let, at last, fix this mistake, finally break this terrible circular message and have an independent Attorney General. Self - help suggested a bill for the new Attorney General to be elected for the open competition. The competition commission with the involvement of society is to present to Parliament and to the President a worthy independent, strong Attorney General, whom we can support and the President to appoint. A great request to all the rangers and all the novices in this room: it's in our hands, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. Arthur Gerasimov is not in the hall. Please, Ednak Ostap, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u136	Dear people of Ukraine! Yesterday, February 18, and today, two years, as we speak of the opposition on Maidan, is a bloody tragedy. And yesterday, the Parliament of Ukraine, for the second year in a row, celebrates this event with the assignment, the granting of the benefits, last year -- the awarding of the prizes, the marking of these events. But should the Ukrainian Parliament do so after such tragic events? Whether our heroes were threatened with imprisonment, health, and terrible injuries and death in Midan for the sake of the benefits and rewards. No, not for that. The Ukrainian Parliament should report annually on what has been achieved in the fight against corruption and the change in the criminal system that these people have been fighting for. Was that a report? No, it's not. Yesterday after lunch, fortunately, because of that. Because of unprecedented pressure from the West and visa liberalisation, we have adopted important anti-corruption laws with enormous powers. These are the laws that should change the system, but we should not take them under the pressure and temptations of a visa-free regime, and yesterday we were all very happy about it, and these should be the organic decisions of a quality post-major parliament. Sadly, that was not the case. Unfortunately, we still haven't retired a government that isn't the standard government that should be after the Dignity Revolution. It's still a mix of corruption and here and there by effective teams that make changes. I also voted for the resignation of such a government, but since it still remains, these weeks and months while it is still in office, it must be weeks and months for corrupters to be able not to steal, but to allow anti-corruption prosecutors to catch them and plant them directly from their offices. And those effective teams that are still in place -- decent, subministerial -- should work three times as hard to help us change the system together. I'll say a few words about forest farming. An inefficient team, which is now in the chair, has developed a reform project. I urge you to make a public discussion about the forest corporation you're planning to build. Talk to trade unions, talk to experts, make this process transparent. Maybe there are some positive things that can be implemented. And there's more. This month. I registered changes to the budget this week because Odessa, Dnipropetrovska, Mikolayivska, Donetsk region – without funding. (Maybe another 30 seconds?)
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u137	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u138	There the forest guards are released, and there is no one. forest. There they are released -- and there is no one to fight the fires that will soon take place in the east and south of Ukraine in the woods. So I urge Parliament to accept the changes to the budget that I have registered this week so that we can save our forests in the south and east of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u139	Heroic glory! Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are three minutes left. Very much, Andrew, I can't give you a minute. I will, with your permission, give the floor only to the leader of your political power, Oleg Laszka. Three minutes left, just for one performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u140	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to place the dots above the "and" for our stay or non-occupation in the coalition. Because today I've been asked all day, whether it's a coalition of the Radical Party or not, because our "friends" (in paws) always seem desirable. The Radical Party faction is now in opposition to power, before the socio-economic course of today's government. We left the Parliamentary Coalition on September 1, 2015, after the insistence of power in Parliament was followed by the voting of anti-Ukrainian changes to the Constitution in part of the granting of special status to Donbas. We came out of the coalition because we had no right to be in the coalition, moral or anything else, which, along with the block of thieves, was going through the constitutional changes written in the Kremlin. There was an appropriate meeting of the Radical Party faction on September 2, which we informed us about. Here is a copy of a letter I signed under the name of the Head of the Supreme Council. Here's the registration number for this letter, which tells us that the Radical Party faction is coming out of the coalition. Here I also took a copy of the registration card of the Secretary of the Supreme Council, where it was clearly stated that our letter had been received, that the Head of the Supreme Council had been briefed. Here's an extract from the Radical Party faction protocol, which unanimously decided on our exit from the coalition. Here's a statement by the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska about leaving the parliamentary coalition. No one had until yesterday, until the self-help and Fatherland coalition had been declared free, there was no doubt that they were "radical" in opposition. Today they say we're in a coalition. Here's the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you won't find it here. This is a law governed by the Supreme Council. The great paradox, but in this document you won't find any mention of the word "coalition," because at Yanukovich's request, the entire section of the Rules that regulates the formation of the coalition was removed in 2010. The only mention of a coalition in the Constitution is that factions with a total of 226 votes form a coalition. Unfortunately, yesterday, the European Coalition in Parliament ceased to exist after the announcement of the withdrawal of the Fatherland and Self-Help factions. That's why the faction of the Radical Party, conscious of its responsibility to the country, aware of its responsibility to citizens, we have proposed to reshape, create a new coalition of Europeans in Parliament, a new agenda of action and a new government. The key thing for us in this new coalition is to make decisions that will make it possible to radically increase the standard of living of citizens, wages, pensions, overcoming unemployment, protecting the country. That's the coalition we're going to go for to stop the country from chaos and from planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been through a very difficult plenary week, but at the same time it must have been one of the key weeks in our work. We have neither allowed nor allowed a destabilization scenario in our country. And yesterday we took an extremely important step towards bringing our citizens closer to the European Union, to the visa-free regime. And I'm sure our decisions yesterday were historic, and this is our huge responsibility to the Ukrainian people, to Maidan. Many of those who are here in the hall, we were together in Maidan, we were scattered in different political powers, we were scattered in different political programs. But I'm sure we're all deeply aware of our responsibility to Ukraine, no matter who the faction is. We didn't let Midan be destabilized two years ago, and today we won't let our country be destabilized. I also want to make an important report that the creation and collapse of the coalition are not only political positions but also legal formats. I want to make an important message. Today, more than 226 signatures are under the coalition. Today, the legal coalition exists, I stress once again: the legal coalition exists and continues to function. I'll tell you, last day, I demonstrated that the coalition is capable of working, that the number of deputies responsible in the room is enough to make the right choices for our state, for Ukraine, and for decisions. Therefore, colleagues, there is no basis in Parliament's leadership today to announce that the coalition has disintegrated. Yesterday all the Russian channels showed that everything, the coalition doesn't exist and the 30-day term begins. There can be no 30-day deadline until the Supreme Council's leadership announces that the coalition no longer exists. There was no such ad, and I hope not. The coalition exists, the parliament works, our responsibility is high. And I'm sure we'll still have many important victories and successes. We have next week, our esteemed colleagues, from February 29th to March 4th, a job with voters, then a week's work on committees, factions and groups. It is very important for us to build a legislative base. A lot of the laws we haven't been able to pass -- it's very sad -- by the D.B.I., by the name of cities and villages. By February 20 they had to do it, society. Today the bill was ready, and Vitatrovitch was in the hall. This is our great responsibility, this fundamental change, that we live in a country where there is no Communist Party, where we change the minds of the population, changing the names of streets and cities that have been called the names of the murderers of the Ukrainian people. It is our duty, not to enter into chaos, to complete reforms, to complete steps towards the transformation of our state. Our next meeting will take place on March 15th at 10 a.m. And I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
