ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. Colleagues ready to sign up, did they all take the cards? Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. Please. [[10:02:19]] 325 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to say hello to our colleague today, the national deputy of Ukraine, Igor Andryovich Artyushenko. We welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] The self-defense fighter of Maidan, the great patriot, the Ukrainian. Hello, my friend. Dear colleagues, traditionally on September 21, each year, the United Nations General Assembly Resolution celebrates the Day of Peace. As early as 1982, the Assembly had established that the Day of Peace would be marked as a day of global ceasefire and nonviolence and had invited all nations and nations to abide by the regime of cessation of hostilities during that day. But today, instead of the cease-fire, we see daily shootings by the occupied Russia of Donbashi, killing our Ukrainian soldiers and the peaceful population. In spite of the Minsk Accords, Russian invaders are firing at Ukrainian positions from the weapons of the banned calibre and the City. We Ukrainians want peace, but we do not accept peace in slavery. Our peace is dignity and will. On the Day of Peace, I urge the Ukrainians to mention those who are now in occupation, to mention all of our defenders who are at the expense of their lives preserving peace for Ukraine and to reflect on what each of us has done to win our army and peace in our home. Colleagues, on Wednesday, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to give a speech to the national MPs. I'd like to emphasize, the national MPs, not factions. The record will now be written and the score will be 30 minutes for the performances. And so I ask all the factions, all the deputies who want to speak, to be very careful about the recording and to prepare for the recording. So, colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please. So Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich is invited to the floor. Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich gives the floor to Berezi, Yuri Berezi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! I'd like to address you with such a request. Yesterday, we did a pretty good job and came up with our statement about Ukraine's non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the elections to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. It's a pretty powerful sign, first of all our occupied territories, first of all our brothers, who are staying under Moscow's boot in Crimea, is also a single to our Western partners. Sadly, however, so far the Law on Confiscation has not been passed in this room. Unfortunately, in this room we did not agree or adopt a law that would, in the first place, prevent the export and peaceful existence of funds stolen from the Ukrainian State to the Ukrainian people. So I would like to stress, I would like to ask all fellow members of the people's deputies to vote tomorrow when this law is passed in this room. Vote! Vote again! – vote! Because it's already embarrassing in front of our Western partners. They're arresting the funds, they're allowing them to use our fugitive officials, and we didn't do anything to recover those funds. These costs must be returned to the Ukrainian budget! These funds should be used to improve the Ukrainian army. These costs should be used to raise social standards for a population group that cannot pay for itself. So I ask you, tomorrow in this room, to vote for this impeccable law for Ukraine. And to all the screamers who say that this law is not necessary, you know, I only want to wish for one, God, you understand. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Anointed Andrew Vitaliyovich, passes to Masorini Oleni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u4	Good morning, dear fellows! On behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to draw attention to one very important thing: to raise the issue of organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have, unfortunately, a very shameful and sad story today, and it refers to the fact that more than two dozen deputies, more than two decades, are not today members of any committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, we deprive these people of their voting rights on committees, deprive them of their ability to carry out their direct duties. Thus, the committee I represent, the European Integration Committee on the threshold of Ukraine's receipt of the visa-free regime this spring of this year, has no head and there is no first deputy. In general, what we can talk about, what respect people have for us, what responsibility we, the Parliament of a European country, we are the Parliament of a warring country. And finally, this shameful practice has to be stopped, this absurdity stopped, and the fight stopped, and the ambitions to resolve it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u7	Kodola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u8	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro 209 constituency. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, on the initiative of our National Front political team, we adopted an important decision and statement by the Supreme Council regarding the non-recognition of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. This is Arsenija Yatsenuk's initiative, our political power, we don't recognize the political farce that took place in Crimea, in the occupied Ukrainian territory, and we urge the whole world not to recognize these elections that took place in Russia. At the same time, local problems do not end, and I would like to pay attention to them. its electoral district of Nizhin, because Nizhin is one of the tourist pearls of the Left Bank Ukraine, which is famous for its unique architectural ensemble and interesting historical monuments. Today, our town of Nizhin claims to win the "Seven Wonders of Ukraine" historic cities and towns. Until now, however, Nizhin does not have his own architectural and historical reserve, although the community of Nizhina and scientists have been working for over 20 years to create the State Architectural Reserve of Ancient Nizhin. In particular, a complete package of documents has already been prepared to provide a package of measures for the preservation and restoration of the historic part of the city, the creation of additional museums, the development of historical routes, and so forth. As early as 2013, the Ministry of Culture approved it scientifically. The scientific and design documentation was approved, and in fact, the very need to create such a reserve. But today the question is blocked at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. For the past two years, I have repeatedly addressed this rostrum with parliamentary appeals and inquiries. In this regard, I also pay attention today to the importance of resolving the issue. In its replies, Kabin refers to Decree No. 65 of 2014, which prohibits an increase in the number of government officials. But in the opinion of the community, scientists believe that, given the unique architectural, urban, historical and artistic value of the collection of monuments in the town of Nižin, with a view to their preservation and further rational use, we are still looking to review the changes to this decision, which will still allow the creation of a historical and architectural preserve of state importance in the town of Lower. That is why the inhabitants of the city of Nizhina today are speaking for it. So we're going to do the task of saving the ancient Ninja for the offspring, and let's work together to bring this question to a logical conclusion, and we're going to give Ninja a chance to save her history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Taras Batenka, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! The Ukrainian Union of Patriots of UCROP wants to express its position on the start of the budget process in Ukraine, and we don't know if we're going to have the opportunity to take this opportunity today. We understand that Ukraine’s resources for the next year are trying to present as realistic, honest, and transparent. However, the analysis of the budget project shows that this is not the case. The draft document contains numerous social imbalances, which can lead to increased tensions in society, and the problems of funding individual sectors that may arise if the budget for 2017 is approved in the proposed version, will become a slow-duty bomb imposed on Ukraine's future. In particular, a radical increase in the salaries of judges is envisaged, resulting in 50 times the national average wage for femida’s employees. Clearly, this step is necessary in the context of judicial reform. However, it seems cynical in view of the fact that social standards will increase by 10 percent next year. There will be continued taxation of pensions for retired workers, suspended legislation on benefits for treatment and housing for military personnel. It is unlikely that society will see a positive increase in the funding of the Henprocuratorium, which will receive 41 per cent more and the IMF will receive 11 per cent more. At a time when only 0.6 percent more than last year is available for military personnel who defend Ukraine. We also pay attention, fellow officials, that funding for education and medicine next year is partly based on local budgets, which will pay for utilities and the work of administrative and technical staff. Whether local budgets can cope with this kind of stress is a big question, especially given that they're already with him. Well, that's what he's saying. From these budgets, vocational and technical education is already being financed. We're really losing small villages. If we shut down primary schools on the vending machine, I think we're actually going to lose a lot of population points. It is also proposed to suspend the Act on Scientific and Technological Activities. All of this can undermine the scientific potential of our country and undermine the teaching ability of many communities, especially poor villages and villages. On the issue of financing an energy efficiency fund and a road fund. This may also be due to authority, of course, but we should remember that these are small amounts that we now receive. We are stressing that the draft budget is over tens of millions of dollars in income expectations. Some experts believe that this is the order of one hundred billion expectations. As the government plans to obtain funds from the specific confiscation and drilling of amber in non-existent bills, how can this be taken into account in this draft budget? So as respectable colleagues, we are paying attention to the fact that we are crossing a boundary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u11	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u12	And we stress that, dear colleagues, we need to work seriously on that government budget that came from a big ambitious document that didn't become a big adventure project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vitali Korchik, People's Front faction. People's deputy Gus. Please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear friends. My performance has been dedicated, as it has probably been, to dozens and more of the performances over the past two years, to the problems of Volin miners. What do we have right now? We have, unfortunately, to say from this rostrum, a free politician and a free minister of coal and energy, Mr. Nasalik, who cannot hold a word that he has promised me as a national deputy representing Novovolinsky, to visit this city of Volinian miners by July 15 and to answer the question: which plan is the development of the neo-voluntary mines once; to appoint the management of the state-owned company "Volinwogil" two; to tell frankly how he is going to solve the issue. Unfortunately, Mr. Nasalik did not keep his words. Today we have September 21st. This person is afraid to come to Novovolinsky. The problem is like this! We have about 4,000 miners in Novovolinsk, the first, the ninth mine, the Bužanka mine, is being put on sale, actually for privatization, but there are no businessmen who are willing to take it to work. Above all: 10 mines, the only mine in Ukraine that is being built, received 20 million sums for construction in the 2017 budget. It's just spit! Now a hundred miners have come from Novovolinsk. It's a spit! We made a decision yesterday that we do not recognize the State of the Russian Federation. But at the same time, the entire department is looking for the possibility of buying coal in Russia, in the LNP/DNR zone. The equipment also buys on the occupied area of Donbas and so on. Is that energy independence? I'm addressing Mr. Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, bring in Mr. Nasalika's feelings. Give him an understanding of how he should do it, because there should be a principle position of the Ukrainian government. Are we building 10 mines or not? It's the only mine that's built. Soon we won't be building any other mine. So, please, my request, the request of the members of the Vollinians, the request of all those who join the Group "Protect the Coal Branch," give the money to build the 10th Mine, give the literate leaders to the Volin who will do it, because otherwise we will use the coal of Russia, the LNR/DNR, or the South African Republic for the first time. Please pay attention. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Yuri Pavlovenko, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u16	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Today is the International Day of Peace, the Day of the Global Ceasefire and the Renouncing of Violence, and we urge all parties to do so. The conflict in eastern Ukraine, which has lasted for two and a half years, continues to pose a constant threat to the restoration of large - scale opposition. Sadly, the political process, which is an integral part of the settlement, has come to a dead end — new victims, new destruction. People who find themselves in military territory are now forced to survive and often feel abandoned by Ukraine. In a conflict zone, there is a growing risk of humanitarian disaster, poverty, unemployment, the threat of hunger, and technological accidents that threaten people’s lives. If we consider ourselves a civilized European state, we must respond. The active power has taken a belligerent but consciously inactive position, there is no bilateral contact with Russia at any level, and Ukrainian problems are now being discussed with Moscow Washington, Berlin, Paris, but not Kiev. The opposition bloc supports the efforts and approaches of the countries of the European Union, and they call on the initiatives of our political power. To stimulate dialogue in Parliament, we are ready to present once again our view of the settlement plan, its key ideas. First and foremost, complex political decisions are to be adopted, and they will take effect when the fire is stopped and Russia’s commitments are fulfilled. First of all, a systematic solution to the problems of decentralization must be identified and strengthened in the Constitution for both Donbas and other regions of Ukraine. The other one. We need to organize a broad social dialogue urgently, discuss all the acute problems that divide Ukrainian society today. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should play a key role in this process. Third. To give up politics that raises the question of the reintegration of Donbas just until the return of the territory. As in Kiev, Odessa, or Zitomir, there are Ukrainian citizens, our fellow countrymen. The strategy for the reintegration of Donbas and Crimea must come from the protection and protection of the needs of the people, our fellow countrymen. We insist on the involvement of the Supreme Council in the settlement process. In particular, we propose to create an interfractional working group from the organization of a national dialogue and to prepare a package of relevant reintegration bills. Delegates from the parliamentary working group should also be involved in contact groups in Minsk. This will make it possible to better communicate the position and approach of the Ukrainian Parliament to resolve the situation, and the representation of all factions will provide guarantees of support in the session room for political settlement decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Ruslan Bogdan. National Deputy Yvchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u18	Good afternoon, everyone. Ruslan Bogdan, Fatherland faction. Vadim Ivchenko convinced me that he would better enlighten the problem, so please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u20	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today the authorities are paying more and more attention to the agrarian complex. In fact, it's one of the few sectors that shows growth today. And it's not because someone works well, it's because of the weather and our agrarians. Many politicians struggle for a rural electorate, and they regularly attend rallies, which are often held near the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have also seen many times when the so-called "saints" come out and say that we are the loyal ones and advocates of the village. And they actually sign laws or vote for really anti-Selian things. I want to remind you that in Ukraine, after the adoption of the Land Rental Act in 98, when, on the one hand, the great latifundists who have accumulated large-scale land banks today are engaged in raiding, destroying ecosystems, rural ecosystems, speculating lease rights, and on the other hand, they are one-man country farms that cannot often pay more rent and they are trapped in their development. What's really going on? And in fact, colleagues, those advocates vote for the taxes that agrarians have today. And from the following year, they want to completely eliminate the tax on small ones. I want to remind you that the fair budget is $5.5 billion. But look inside, of these 5.5 billion of the funds invested in maintaining the states of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, in maintaining the states of the State Forest Agency, in maintaining the states of the State Security and the State Food Service, and only 1.5 billion in real direct support. 1.5 billion, but 25 billion dollars are taken from the field. I'll get you the statistics I spoke about yesterday. Of the 51,000 agricultural subjects 44.5 are the small ones that process up to 500 hectares, that's 86 percent, that's the people that go out in the area, that's the people who vote, that's the people we promised to improve. We're taking the last of the money, instead of offering large agricultural holdings. Some of them have already been compensated in advance in the past year. That's how we talk to you about improving the agricultural sector and the peasants. What about the moratorium? Today we offer a fully road map of land reform. We have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u21	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u22	The Fatherland has laws that really show financial decentralization. We will not allow the laws passing the moratorium to pass. And I ask all the deputies to withdraw theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u23	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies, Mr. Alexander Dudenkov. Please, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u24	Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. Today, we will be presented with a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. It was said that the procedure for adopting this bill was transparent. In fact, by announcing this bill last week, it was only possible to get to know it on Monday this week. What real authority offers us. What financial report, what financial plan we're going to go with next year. Unfortunately, the size of social promotions does not correspond to the pace of inflation in our country. When social benefits, pensions, scholarships and other forms of social pay rise by 10 percent at an inflation rate of 20-30 percent. The government in the draft State Budget Act proposes to halt payments for the following year, such as for military officials, academics, culture and to make these payments dependent on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers according to available financial resources, as stated in the State Budget Bill. The level of government budget deficit is also significant, about 77 billion dollars. What is the policy of authority? The policy of power actually leads to the country's default. Why so? The amount of government debt and government debt guaranteed according to Bill 5000 amounts to 2.2 trillion dollars. At the same time, nominal GDP stands at 1.9 trillion dollars by the end of 2015. What does that mean? We're actually in a defult state, nobody's talking about it, it's about defense, it's about the residual financing of social benefits, but it turns out that it's not a state for a human being, it's a human being for a state. Why so? This is based on an increase in government debt through an antiterrorist operation. Both the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian Law, Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2017 has put an end to part two of article 18 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which sets the maximum amount of government debt allowed to GDP at 60 per cent. And now 100 percent, I've already said that. One of the deputies here said that it was embarrassing for Western partners not to adopt the anti-constitutional law on special confiscation. It's a shame that a special confiscation is seen as a bill as a strategic filler of the government budget's income, that's nonsense. Isn't it embarrassing to freeze social benefits? Isn't it embarrassing to keep 15 percent of the pensioners working? The budget bill also provides for this. Is it not embarrassing to reduce the amount of social subsidies, subsidies for extended travel, medical subsidies, educational subsidies? I think that's who's going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u25	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u26	Whoever votes in favour of this version of the State Budget Act should be ashamed, not in front of Western partners, but in front of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Refat Chubarov, "Block of Petra Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u28	Dear Head, dear colleagues! A year ago, the Civil blockade of Crimea was launched. Hundreds, and then thousands of patriots of the country came along with the initiators of this action, the Crimecatarian activists. Thanks to the action, the Ukrainian State has finally joined even though part of the international sanctions against Russia, but most importantly, because of the action, the topic of the depopulation of the Crimea has been restored to the order of the day's international policy. It is also worth mentioning that the shareholders forced Russia, which occupied Crimea, to increase its cost of maintaining Crimea dozens of times. On Saturday, September 24th, Chongari will host a celebration of the "Crime Citizens' Blockage". All participants in the stock market are invited. It is very symbolic that yesterday, on the anniversary of the civil blockade of Crimea by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decree was approved not to recognize the legitimate election of the deputies of the State Duma of Russia because of their holding of illegal elections in the territory of the temporarily occupied Crimea. So yesterday we took a perfectly just and faithful step, now we must do everything we can to motivate our partners to make a similar decision. Russia, an aggressor country, must be thrown out immediately outside the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization. Organizations of security and cooperation in Europe, Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. Dear colleagues! I would like to add that, for today in Crimea, 17 hostages of Crimean Tatars are behind bars. The 17 patriots of Ukraine are persecuted by the invaders for their loyalty to the Ukrainian State, for their allegiance to their religion, for their worthy and worthy conduct in the occupied Crimea. Thus, the subject of the release of political prisoners, the political hostages of Crimea, should also be at the forefront of the activities of both the President of Ukraine and all our national authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Villkull, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u30	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! The people of Ukraine must know the truth of the obligations imposed by the current power, and the Government of our country is borrowing from the IMF. Yesterday, together with colleagues from the Opposition Block, we registered Regulation No. 5152, which requires that all agreements be made, all memoranda with the International Monetary Fund will be published on the Government's website and in the Government Courier. We also demand that the Government of Ukraine come to Parliament and report on those commitments. Today, in its statements, which are not official documents, the Government says that it is not intended to increase the retirement age, nor is it intended, at the same time, in the version of the memorandum that we have all read, written that there will be an adjustment to the retirement age. Does anyone believe that age will be reduced? No one believes it. This can only be an increase, and we want to hear what this adjustment meant in the memorandum. Next question. The Government says that the term used in the memorandum "farm circulation" is not sales. What's a lap if it's not a sale? Then why don't they tell us what it is? And so many other questions. The budget that today seems to us is indeed the result of the culinary arrangements with the International Monetary Fund and we, and the people of Ukraine, have the right to know what these arrangements are. Second question. I would like to draw attention to the eerie fact that yesterday, the Speaker of the Supreme Council registered draft decree 5060 on the order of the day of this session. Thus, by this decree, he would like to exclude the main drafts of the Opposition Block, which we have introduced, first and foremost, a bill on the moratorium on the closure of schools and a bill on the moratorium on the rise of communal tariffs. There is no way to vote on the agenda of the speaker, and that, by the way, will be a lactus paper for all the factions of Parliament, whether they really think of the people of Ukraine or all the results of the culinary treaties. I reiterate that the opposition bloc, as it is today, will not vote for it, is not realistic and income-intensive: there is a mere inflationary element, there are no issues of raising social standards, there is no reference to the reduction of communal tariffs. We will work together to ensure that Ukraine is a normal country and our budget. It was the development budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is over. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Now we're going to the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. We have several important ratifications, and I expect the national MPs to be as responsible as possible for the adoption of ratifications. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I have come to the fore with a request from two factions, which, the Radical Party and the Fatherland, are required to announce a recess, but are being replaced by a pause from the rostrum. The performance will take three minutes, and I ask the MPs to come into the hall at the time. As I understand it, both factions will be making a statement to Halasyuk. Mr. Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! A budgetary process has begun. The budget is one of the key documents of the state, because it is a continuation of the philosophy of economic policy of the government. You can talk a lot about the state budget spending that we finally got, but even with an unarmed eye you can see, and I think we're going to hear today that there's a bunch of systemic structural weaknesses. For example, energy-generating, or energy-addictiveness, is directed at 0.8 billion dollars, and subsidies, i.e. conservation of poverty and energy dependence, go directly to these funds in the pocket of the oligarchs, go to 53 billion dollars. It's not a solution. Substantially reduced support for agrarians. It is absolutely unacceptable to cancel the special regime and instead to give only 5 billion to support agriculture. We have to give the same $20 billion to support Ukrainian animals, farmers, to restore the village. We can't see a single penny to stimulate exports. Why are we going to raise the economy at all, so why keep the bracelet? Against this background, 111 billion dollars is only interest on government debt. Think about it: 111 billion dollars! This year, it's 100 billion dollars, it's just a black hole that we're paying for. Taxpayers. I want to make your point that even more important is the formation of the income part. Because there are two philosophies of budget filling. One philosophy, it's temporary, it's short-lived, it's an inflation-based budget, including IMF loans. Unfortunately, this is the approach we often face. The second fundamental long-term approach proposed by the Radical Party faction is to fill the budget at the expense of investment, production and exports, which is a change in the country's economic model. You can talk as much as you want about the redistribution of expenses between defense, education, science, culture, but if we don't fill the budget with you, we're not going to create mechanisms that will bring in extra budget revenue from the inside of the country to not kill business, but because of the development of the budget, it's not going to change, it's the principle of position. In order to follow this other course, we are obliged to adopt a series of industrial laws with you. These are laws: the export credit agency, the industrial parks, the land freeze for 2 years, not to kill Ukrainian carbuilders, this is the removal of import duties for scrap metal, this is the cost of woodworking equipment -- 2617, 2618, this is the prohibition of privatisation of Turboatoma, and this is the restructuring of South American debt. So the Radical Party faction is calling for the budget to be filled by economic development, which is a pro-Ukrainian economic policy that we're missing for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u33	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to the issues of order of the day. The first question is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of a member of a diplomatic representative or consular institution. Dear colleagues, I hope that we can get through the ratifications quickly and effectively. And I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm really asking everyone to support this proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 0103 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:42:31]] For-126 Colleagues, we can go into full ratification procedure, hourly discussion. But I think it'll be more effective if we're able to accept a few ratifications at the time that really don't cause such a big discussion. I'm asking everyone to focus, focus. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote again. And, colleagues, please support. Fatherland, Radical Party, Self-Help, well, that's it. We didn't get it, we didn't get it into the body of the bill. Guys, I'm gonna put it back up again. And I'm very grateful for your attention and your concentration. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the motion to review the reduced procedure 0103. And I'm asking you to back me up. Colleagues, please support. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[10:43:51]] For a hundred and 150 for. Decision taken. It's a victory. I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u34	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Employment of Members of Families of Diplomatic and Consular Institutions of Ukraine in Israel and Ukraine. This agreement was concluded on December 22, last year, between the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel, this agreement will allow members of Ukrainian citizens' families who are at work in the vacants of Israel to realize their right to work, allowing them to maintain their qualifications, and to some extent to solve social problems. To your knowledge, this is not the first agreement, there are such agreements with other foreign states, and they are ratified by the Supreme Council. I would also like to report that the Israeli side has notified diplomatic channels of the conclusion of the ratification of this agreement on its side. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u35	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Speaker, citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the employment of a family member of diplomatic representation or consular office and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the bill as a whole. Paragraph "b" of part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts stipulates that ratifications are subject to international agreements relating to the rights, freedoms and obligations of people and citizens. Therefore, in order to carry out internal procedures for the acquisition of the agreement, Bill 0103 was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters and accept this bill as a whole. I also want to say that there will be parliamentary hearings in Parliament dedicated to the tragedy of Baba Jar, 75 years old. We invite all experts, historians, the international community to participate actively. We are also awaiting a visit by the President of Israel to Ukraine. And we also very much hope that we will be able to strengthen our cooperation in the preparation of the Free Trade Agreement with Israel. After we signed the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, he also prepares with Turkey and with other countries. As a result, we would like to take a broader view of cooperation with different countries and the strengthening of our diplomatic front. Thank you. And I urge everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Koljev Alona Volodymyrna passes it on to Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We certainly support this ratification. I want to share with you a very important story about Israel. The other day, I met Maale-Adumim Mayor Beni Kashryel and his deputy Boris Groissman. And I was struck by the story of how they created an economic miracle in their city, and how this mayor has been elected for 24 years. And he did it this way: when he came, he looked at what his priorities should be. And he chose industry as his priority and created an industrial park in the city that is now number one in size in Israel. Do you know why this is interesting? And because the population of this town is only 42,000 people, because it's on the west bank of the Jordan River, where the disputed territory is, where there's no peace. This story has been shown because the average wage is $2,200 and the average wage is $200 in neighboring Palestine. And thousands of Palestinians come to work in this Israeli industrial park, and they make money there. 25 percent of the population are the weekends of our countries and neighboring countries. Today, this city directs 42 percent of its education budget. They're practically independent of the central budget. And they started from scratch, they started from nothing! So I want to say that this argument to all those who say, "Show me where a country in conditions of terrorism can develop under human threat." So ask the mayor how he can develop. And remember that Israel since May 19, 48, since the 4th day of its birth, has been living in a state of emergency that continues every six months. So, as Mayor Maale-Adumim Beni-Kashriel says, "It all begins with faith." That's why I urge you to believe in the industrial innovation future of Ukraine and the adoption of relevant bills in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u39	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u40	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear friends, today diplomacy is not in an easy position. We should help members of families of members of diplomatic institutions, allow them not to lose their qualifications when their other half are on a mission in Israel, allowing them to earn a decent salary there while they are away with the mission. I therefore call on everyone today to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the employment of family members of diplomatic representatives or consular services and to vote for it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u41	Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u42	Please give the floor to a very well-known expert diplomat, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexandre Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, with more than 40 years of experience in the Ukrainian diplomatic service, I want to say that unfortunately, sometimes the media in society is creating the wrong image of a diplomat and a diplomatic service. And what I want to say is that this is particularly true of diplomatic workers who are going to work abroad in diplomatic or consular institutions of our state. And very often, a diplomat’s wife or husband, a Ukrainian diplomat, is deprived of the opportunity to continue their professional, scientific activities, break away from the family, family, friends, the normal environment, and, of course, this puts some psychological strain on members of the families of diplomats. So I want to say that we need to support this typical agreement on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic representatives. And the Fatherland faction will definitely support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Now we're going to the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, in the course of the discussion, we have seen the overall mutual support of this ratification. And I think we can go to the vote. And I'd like everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote, please. Ready to make a decision? Colleagues? Deputy Osuhovski, take the job. So, colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of a member of a diplomatic representation or consular institution. A draft law is proposed for adoption in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues, 0103 as a whole. Vote. [[10:54:11]] For 222 We didn't make it. They didn't make it into the hall. We didn't make it, I see. Colleagues, please concentrate. It's a matter of ratification and a question that doesn't generate any discussion. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on the table and then vote again. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? I propose to go back to the draft Law 0103, ratification. Those who support the return to consideration, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:55:07]] For 243 Decision taken. Now I'm voting again on draft Law 0103 as a whole. Who supports 0103 as a whole, please vote, colleagues, please vote. [[10:55:32]] For 239. Decision taken. Welcome to the decision-makers. And we move on to the next question of order of the day, that's ratification. I ask them to take them into account more effectively. 0107 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of information with limited access. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please, colleagues. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:56:16]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your previous positive vote. For now, I want to present you with a draft law that has something to do with strengthening national security, because this is about organising and protecting the exchange of information between NATO countries and the EU, namely the Republic of Poland. The agreement was signed on August 27 last year, on July 4, Poland completed the national ratification process. Now, if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u46	Thank you. I would like to invite a member of the European Integration Committee Msorina Olen Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee of the national parliaments came from the fact that ratification would allow the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the Agreement of validity. The agreement was concluded on 27 August 2015, the signing and ratification of the Agreement, which required the creation of legal rules to protect information with limited access, which would be exchanged between the parties in the course of cooperation. The agreement ensures an equitable partnership in the information exchange process and obliges the parties to take all necessary measures to protect information obtained during cooperation. According to the content of the Agreement, it is consistent with international practice, and it agrees with the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and has passed the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Colleagues, would you please tell me if you would like to discuss it? Can we vote? We can vote, can't we? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues. We have ratifications Wednesday that are consistent with all factions, political parties, we only need to be able to be in the workplace and vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come in, take jobs, prepare for the vote. Guys, let's go in. There is a desire for one speaker to have a discussion, we give one minute. And I'm asking you to come into the hall in one minute. Please, Halasyuk, one minute of the show, and please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u49	Thank you. The Radical Party faction supports this ratification. I want to highlight the Polish experience, we need to study in Poles, the amount of woodworking in the forest and furniture sector in Poland is almost $25 billion, in Ukraine it's a little over $2 billion. And that's the raw material that goes abroad for nothing, and they have ready-made products. You can imagine that the forest sector and the woodworking furniture of Poland, that's half of all Ukrainian exports. So we need to save the moratorium on the exports of roundwood that you and I have chosen here in Parliament, we will not give it up for any European loans, because we are not papayas. We have to build a strong economy with you, as the Poles built it, so that we have per capita GDP as in Poland, and beggars work to make our people raw in other countries. National economic policy is needed, and the first interest should be in foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u50	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask to come in, gather, snorkel, and I put to the vote the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of information with limited access in general. Please vote, please support. 0107 – total. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[11:01:38]] For 208 I see they're not all there. Show by factions: "Prashenka Block" – 84, "The People's Front" – 54, "The Opposition of the Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, "The Father's Party" – 10, "The Radical Party – 12, "Rebirth" – 8, "The Will of the People" – 4. In fact, almost all factions support. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. I'll put it on return one day. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, me. Maybe someone has a warning about this ratification? I'm willing to give my word if anyone has a warning. If you don't, please come in and take the job, there's a few votes missing. So my colleagues are ready, and I'm putting the vote back to ratification. And I want to stress that this is the international authority of our nation. I wouldn't want to reject ratification, colleagues. I ask you to concentrate, and I'm putting the vote back to debate 0107. Colleagues, please support the return to 0107. Please vote. Please vote return to 0107 – ratification of the Agreement. Please be supportive. [[11:03:57]] For 219 Colleagues, five votes failed to vote. Andrew Ivanchuk, take organizational action. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please! People's Front, are we all set? May I vote? Sure. "Peter Sprinkler's Block"? Everybody's ready. Colleagues, please be careful, I propose once again to return to the vote for the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. Please support this proposal. 0107 - Ratification. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Vote. Colleagues, return. [[11:05:29]] For 219 Five votes, colleagues. Five votes, ratification and international authority of Ukraine. I'm asking you to invite those deputies who are in the hall right now. The Secretariat, we lack five votes to ratify the international agreement, please invite deputies to the Hall. I'm going to ask you again, because I'm convinced that this is a question of the authority of our state and it would be a very bad sign if we rejected the ratification. So, 30 seconds, I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. One is Ariev, one is a copy, the other is Musak, it's a victory. Three more, we need an appeal fund for someone who can provide another deputy. Colleagues ready, please? I'm asking you to take up jobs. Mr. Mosiyczuk, please take your seats. I'm sorry about the pun. Colleagues, so we have enough votes. I am voting on the proposal to return to debate 0107: draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland. There are voices. So, colleagues, we vote return 0107. Please, colleagues, please vote. Vote, colleagues, return 0107. [[11:07:54]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Now I'm putting draft Law 0107 as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. 0107 as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:08:20]] For 230 230 for. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for your position, for your discipline. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. We accepted two ratifications. We next have recommendations for parliamentary hearings. I also ask for respect for our colleagues and common ground. And I'm moving on to the draft Decree 5090 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Trans-Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, consider the simplified procedure. Please support me. [[11:09:15]] For 181 180 for. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee of Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna to report. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u51	Good day, dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers. On June 8th, the Committee on European Integration held parliamentary hearings on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Real European Integration Process of Ukraine". In addition to the central regional authorities, scientists, social organizations, who are involved in cross-border cooperation, have also taken part. As a result of the hearings, numerous recommendations were made to improve policy in the field of cross-border activity, the importance of which, by the way, remained undervalued, especially in the context of the integration of our state into Europe. One of the points of the document is the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of the State Programme for Cross-border Cooperation, but while the recommendations were being made, the conclusions, the sessions, the halls, governments and so forth were being adopted by the government. Accordingly, I would like to amend paragraph 2.2 of the recommendation, which reads as follows: "Approval of the State Programme for the Development of Cross-border Cooperation for 2016-2020 and ensure the financing of its actions and projects, as well as appropriate support for the activities of the Ukrainian part of the euro area under the programme." In writing, I would like to draw attention to the transcript: "Ensure funding for actions and projects included in the State Programme for the Development of Cross-border Cooperation for 2016-2020, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's 23rd 08-2016 (number 554), as well as relevant support for the activities of the Ukrainian parts of the euro area under this programme." Please support the draft of Decree 5090 as amended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues. Parliamentary hearings, is there a need, or is there a desire to discuss, or can we vote? There are those who want it, okay. Please record: two for, two for against, please. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u53	Please give the floor to Deputy Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u54	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. And by the way, I represent a region that combines, directly combines, for example, with the country of Romania, and which is primarily interested in cross-border cooperation projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a few examples. In particular, within the European Union, up to 30 per cent of infrastructure projects are funded by cross-border cooperation programmes. The proportion of such projects in Ukraine today is close to zero. Therefore, the issue of cross-border cooperation is extremely important. This is an opportunity to obtain additional financial resources to address the problems of the neighbouring territories that are now in Ukraine. Thus, hearings and hearing recommendations are of a vital importance. But there is one but. Dear colleagues, we are approaching the budgetary process today and we will listen and prepare proposals for the budget. So in order for the hearings and recommendations to be really implemented, we need to provide the necessary financial stimulus in the Ukrainian budget for the following year. I want to say that every 1 bracelet we put in the Ukrainian budget for cross-border cooperation projects means 10 dollars of the European Union's contribution. So, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, I would like to urge you all to take this matter very seriously and in the future, in the budgetary process, to support cross-border cooperation programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Guys, there's gonna be another show. In two minutes, the vote will take place. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. And I give Danchenkov the word of Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u56	Give it to the pods.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u57	It's sublime. Announce. Podlisetic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u58	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. The recommendations for acceptance and approval of public hearings should clearly be supported. But one thing we need to understand is that cross-border cooperation is both tourism and business contacts and cultural exchange. And actually, there's a big problem here with people communicating and crossing the border and also coming from one place to another. Since we know the huge problem that thousands of people face on borders every day, these are the long lines that need to be addressed. What I believe is that the solution must be complex and that there is a minister of European integration, Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze, who should take direct control and his personal responsibility to work out all the mechanisms for his own solution. This is a matter of a small border traffic problem, a problem of crossing the border of cars with foreign registration, which is largely a foreign registration for a five - day so - called temporary entry for 5 days. And there's also a question about cooperation and the improvement of aviation connections, because we don't have the hope of the open sky yet, and that's why the state has to do everything we can to make it smaller, if not in kilometers, in times of human interaction. We need to make sure that the open-air program is adopted to increase aviation, so that the cooperation between Ukraine and Poland is really effective, fast and productive. Thank you. And the ruling has to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u59	Thank you. The faction is still required of the performance. One minute, Ivan Krulko. Colleagues, we go into the hall, we take jobs. Please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Our faction will vote in favour of parliamentary recommendations. But, dear fellows, I would like to raise a problem right now that is not on the part of our Europeans. The problem is not about our European neighbours, but it is about solving the issues that concern our authorities. It's about walking between Ukraine and Slovakia to the Upper Germany near the town of Uzhgrad in Zakarpat. The problem is that the Slovak side did everything on its own to make this walkway open. But bureaucratic barriers to Ukrainian guilt make it impossible to start this transition that is very necessary for Ukrainian citizens living near the border that live in the border area. This is real cross-border cooperation. This is true European integration. Let's open the borders as much as we can and help ourselves to make Ukraine closer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Let us move on to making decisions. For 30 seconds now, Ostrike, turn on the microphone, for technical repair, and we're voting, colleagues. Please, Ostrikak 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we really need a draft of this decision to be supported. However, paragraph 3.12 of the appendix, which, in fact, contains recommendations for parliamentary hearings, states that the interaction with the Ministry, the Mini Infrastructure, Mertot, the DFS, the Sustainable Service and the State Border Service needs to align priority and funding with the relevant EU structures for the reconstruction of existing ones and the creation of new points of legislation. And here's a reference to the State Customs. In fact, there is no such organ now, there is now the State Fiscal Service. This mistake here came about by accident, because in fact, in order to establish quality cross-border cooperation, we need to separate a separate customs warehouse with the State Fiscal Service, a State Customs Service that will actually engage in cross-border cooperation and the economic security of the state at an appropriate level. And paragraph 3.12 does not exist today, and the organ needs to be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u63	Is it accepted? So, colleagues, I'm putting to a vote with a proposal made by Tetjana Ostrikek for the transcript, and with this proposal, I'm putting it to a vote. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process" (5090), as amended by Tetjana Ostrova as a whole, on the basis of and as a whole, colleagues. Please support me, I would like to vote 5090 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[11:19:21]] For 207 Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats. I'll put it again now, but please invite the deputies to the faction hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall, a few votes are not enough, please invite the deputies to the hall now. Fellows, may I put it? I'm going to make a motion for a return to the 5090 draft -- a ruling on parliamentary hearings, it's non-conflict, it's supported by everyone. Colleagues, please vote, please support the offer to return to 5090. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote return to 5090, please vote. [[11:20:59]] For 222 Two votes, colleagues, two votes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Vote? We can vote, right? I just saw two deputies come out. Yes, please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. And I propose once again to the vote to return to the 5090th draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process". Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the hearing, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:22:25]] For 222 We didn't make it. I see they didn't make it. Colleagues! This is respect for our national MPs, tomorrow your determination will stand the same and will be rejected. That's beyond the responsibility of ethics. Please, colleagues. Is everyone who hasn't made it in place? My colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the offer to return to 5090, colleagues. I ask everyone to approach the workplace and please support the proposal to return to the draft regulation 5090. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:23:46]] For 228 228 for. We're back, colleagues, attention, now I'm putting draft Decree 5090 to the vote on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please, on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues, on a general basis. Vote! [[11:24:17]] For 224 Colleagues, we're going to make that maneuver uneasy again. I'm going to put the vote to the vote, and then we're going to vote again. I'm putting the vote back to 5090. I'm voting a motion to return to 5090 and please vote, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:25:27]] For 224 Colleagues, please come into the hall. Well, there's only seven or eight deputies. And colleagues, please, let's focus on this vote. Colleagues, may we vote? I'm putting the vote back to 5090. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. 5090 – back to the hearing, please vote 5090. [[11:26:29]] For 229 We're back. Now, society, I'm re-voting 5090 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:26:56]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. Colleagues, I would like to consult you now: do we have another parliamentary hearing order, we can now vote on it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm telling you, really, if we go into a long system, we don't vote. Colleagues, I'll bet you 5092. First, I ask you to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please support me. Short-term procedure 5092. Please. Please be supportive. [[11:27:41]] For a hundred and I invite you to report to Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u64	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! For your consideration, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." The committee approved. Since parliamentary hearings on education funding have already been approved by the Supreme Council on 16 November, I ask the transcript to schedule another date for our parliamentary hearings on foreign policy and to appoint them on 7 December. Colleagues, this is an extremely important hearing, because foreign policy in times of external aggression is one of the key areas. This is alongside the army and the internal political unity of one of the three whales on which we hold our independence with you and on which we base our resistance to aggression. External policy without an effective internal policy cannot be effectively formed, and therefore it is very important that Parliament, as a representative body, can form in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85, which provides for the definition of the principles of internal and external policy, belongs precisely to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why we would like Parliament not only to determine the principles of foreign policy but also to control the implementation of this policy. And in addition to the complex issues with the appointment of ambassadors that we have repeatedly discussed, through the reform of the diplomatic service, I wanted to thank the parliamentary committees, particularly the human rights committee, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Industrial Policy Development, because we have repeatedly conducted various committee hearings on energy diplomacy, the economics of external politics, cultural diplomacy, we are very important at these hearings to demonstrate our external political priorities, where we are moving, what is our strategy for the return of Donbas, the establishment of peace. The return of Donbas and Crimea, the establishment of peace. And so please support the holding of the 7th of December parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u65	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Can we move on to making a decision? They're desirable, aren't they? Then let's do a two-in-pro, two-again. Please. Please, Yegor Sobolev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u66	The great request of all colleagues is not just to vote in favour of this decree, but to come to these hearings. Let's be honest, there's no foreign policy in Parliament, no foreign policy, no, no, no, and it's up to us whether or not it will. For two years, Ukraine has lived by the script written in the Minsk script. We haven't told you once, not just here, in all the leading capitals of the world, we're like self-help, that it's a trap. Now, thank God, more and more people, including the President of Ukraine, are beginning to support this decision. I think it is very important that these hearings become, indeed, the first attempt for Parliament to produce, to help the President make international policies for Ukraine. Because only then will it be strong when there is a parliament behind it, and more importantly, when there is a society that will see that foreign policy is realistic, that it gives more chance of security, more chance of development. To talk about the anti-putinian coalition, which exists only in the imagination of those who talk about it, not to react to Russia's enormous subversive work in Washington, D.C., London, Brussels, we have to end with this irresponsible attitude. Let's vote for these hearings, let's come to them. I will personally leave my own Anti-Corruption Committee and ask my colleagues to replace me. I think it is very important that all the parliamentarians on this day be together. And let's be honest about why Minsk doesn't work, what we can do instead. And with the President, we will be pursuing a policy that will give our people the same security and the same development.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u67	Thank you. I just want to remind you, Mr. Yegor, that, in fact, the Supreme Council sets the key positions of foreign and domestic politics. The decision of the Supreme Council has led to a decision on the strategic direction of both the EU and NATO. And it will be restored by this Parliament, and all the government officials in their actions are resisting and acting only within the framework set by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is not necessary to minimize, as Oleg Berezuk says, the meaning of the highest legislative body in our country should be underestimated, and it should be strengthened and directed. Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you to speak to Arjev Vladimir Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the orientations of foreign policy must be discussed immediately, because, indeed, we see that some of the world's fatigue is not from Ukraine, but from the sanctions on Russia, there is, especially with regard to Europe. If our American, Canadian colleagues are more so, clearly in this position, we now see some disappointment in the European Union because many want to use their business connections there. We see an effort to bring the Russian Federation back politically to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And, in principle, this desire often does not come out of, let's say, the necessity, as much as the style of "grass diplomacy," unfortunately, is very much present in the walls of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And it's working, and it's still working. We need to create a system of responses to these threats. The system of resistance to Russian emissaries working today in the territory of the European Union and in the countries of Europe. Every possibility is important, and I think we should invite representatives of foreign embassies in Ukraine, especially our friends, to these hearings. Dear colleagues, we also have to understand that the information policy of Ukraine in the Western direction for today is quite weak, and I understand that Russia is spending much more money than Ukraine can, but we have the opportunity to work with our colleagues constantly and to take our position, the position of Ukraine, and we can reconcile this position at these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we have a closing statement by Musiychuk Igor Volodymyrovich, and in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I ask all fellow MPs to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u70	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction supports the holding of parliamentary hearings, it believes more is necessary. But what I want to point out is that this room was full of what Parliament is producing and directing the aspects of foreign policy is absolutely not true. Why? Because on 16 April 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed its ruling on the initiative of the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska, which expressly prohibits the holding of international negotiations that envision changes to the Constitution, which is actually currently taking place in Minsk, expressly prohibits. So in disregard of Parliament's ruling, these negotiations continue, they continue absolutely in an anti-constitutional way, because the Supreme Council has not ratified any Minsk treaties and has not seen them officially. And now, actually, to talk about their execution, there's absolutely no point in keeping them. But listening is really necessary, it is really necessary to define aspects of foreign policy. And to our firm belief, there has to be one aspect: Ukrainian centrism, Kievcentrism. The interests of the Ukrainian State and the nation must be above all else: above Moscow, Brussels, or Washington, exclusively the interests of the Ukrainian nation, the state. On this we stand and stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. We really need a venue to discuss, to define a more detailed strategy. And parliamentary hearings are the ideal format for such a discussion. And so I ask everyone to support this draft decision. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy" (5092) as a basis and as a whole, colleagues. 5092 is based on the whole. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:38:59]] For 208 I see they haven't made it. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall who are in the towers. Please, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? I propose to go back to the draft Decree 5092 on parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." Those who support this decision, the proposal to return, please vote. Hold on, hold on, the MPs are still coming, hold on. Let everyone take up their jobs. Please put the vote back to 5092. Please support 5092. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:40:44]] For 209 There is no room to go back to that decision. There is no desire for national MPs to hold parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." I'll put it again, if there are no votes, the decision will be rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no transfer mechanism. Victor Pinzenik can tell you the whole story in detail. There's a mechanism -- inviting MPs, there's a mechanism -- on all factions to raise serious questions about discipline in factions, there's a mechanism -- to choose who's worst at factions and to have personal conversations with them. Such mechanisms exist, they need to be used. There is no mechanism for decision-making after discussion, no transfer. We want to go the shortest way, and all the other mechanisms don't apply that they don't exist. Let all the heads of factions, all the writers of regulations and drafts and work where there are grounds and where there is a point to work, ask their colleagues, "Why weren't you when this decision was made? Where were you that day?".. Guys, let's do one good thing right now. Let's now publish in the Voice of Ukraine the presence, the absence of MPs. Is that right? Will it be wise? Wise, fellows. I now propose to hold a rating vote on the presence of deputies in the Chamber and to publish it in the Voice of Ukraine. Are we all in, colleagues? Roger that. Please come into the hall. I promised at the outset that when we see that, according to important bills, we cannot make a decision, not from the political debate, but from the absence of deputies, I will give instructions to publish on the Supreme Council website and in the Voice of Ukraine newspaper of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u72	I think it's a day like this, don't you? It's true, colleagues. I'm going to put it back on the table first, and then I'm going to run a rating vote so we can make a decision, and then we're going to vote by rating vote. So I'm proposing to go back to 5092 -- draft decision "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 5092. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:21]] For 217 217. If there's a mechanism to get a few more deputies involved, I'll wait. Let's do the ratings now, publish them, and then invite the MPs that are there. So, colleagues, I am now conducting a rating vote on the presence of deputies in the hall. Not making decisions, I'm stressing the presence of deputies in the hall. And as a result of this vote, I am now giving instructions to publish on the Supreme Council website and in the Voice of Ukraine, and let those who are not at this meeting explain why they were not there when we were discussing key issues for conducting foreign policy. So, colleagues, please take part in the rating vote. Please vote in favour, not for the law, but just for the vote. Please. Let's vote, colleagues. A rating vote for your participation in the session that you are. [[11:44:27]] For 249 I'm asking you to publish this result. And, colleagues, I'm betting on a return vote of 5092, a return to consideration of 5092. Please vote return 5092. Please vote. [[11:44:57]] For 219 No voices. Please, 30 seconds, Hanna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I don't think that's funny, because we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And I think that to discuss foreign policy in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, Parliament has to determine the principles. And that's why those who don't vote now for the WFP or for the People's Front, either it's a deliberate position, or I don't understand what's going on. I ask you: vote because if you want to live in a normal country that determines where we're going. Foreign policy is not just an issue of East, of Crimea security, it's much broader. And so this whole circus that you're having right now, come and vote because there's got to be this discussion in Parliament. I urge you to take this step and let's talk. The question is not just in the coalition, the question is, in foreign policy, both the coalition and the opposition, we need to determine where we are moving, what we are in international negotiations, and what our state, the face we want to see. That's why I'm asking you to vote! And don't try to sabotage this decision in favor, I don't want to tell who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly stressed that this is not a matter of coalition or opposition, it is a question of Parliament's ability or incompetence. We can talk a hundred times about Parliament's failure to implement its vision in foreign policy because it is either capable or unable. I believe and believe that Parliament is a capable and powerful body capable of shaping foreign policy that can work. To that end, we must show political will. Colleagues, I'll put you back in, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you to enter the hall, prepare for the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft ruling on parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[11:47:37]] For 225 Please take up your jobs, colleagues! Please be careful! Colleagues, take your seats. I'm putting a motion to vote back to 5092. Please vote. Please support the return to 5092. Please vote. Please. [[11:48:16]] For 227 We're back. I now put to the vote a draft ruling on parliamentary hearings on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy" (5092) as a whole. Colleagues in general. Please vote, please support, 5092 in general, please support, please vote, please. [[11:48:52]] For 232 232 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I've been asked by a number of factions to finish the job by five to seven minutes, because many people are going to the funeral, to say good-bye to Andrew Taranovi, many delegations are asking me for 12 hours to finish for five minutes. I respect this proposal, so I'm going to finish our job five minutes faster and remind you that at 12:30 we're going to move on to the budget. At 12:30, we will be able to have a professional discussion with the government, and I invite all the national MPs to be active, to participate in this discussion. And at 12:30 in this room will be the presentation of the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine for 2017. I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to come to the hall in a disciplined manner to continue our work. I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules today, we are going to consider presenting the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017. A government led by Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, Prime Minister of Ukraine, came to us in the wall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome our officials, colleagues. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I would like to speak in advance of the rules that are envisaged to address this issue. So first, a brief word to Prime Minister, then the presentation of the State Budget for 2017 by the Minister of Finance, Alexander Alexander Daniluk, takes 15 minutes; then the Head of the Budget Committee, Andri Vasilovich Pavelko – 5 minutes, Mr Andry, 5 minutes; then the question-answer is given in total 15 minutes for both the Minister and the Head of the Committee; then there will be statements by all representatives of factions and groups, and then there will be speeches by the National Deputies – in 10 minutes; the final word will be the Head of the Committee and the closing word will be the Prime Minister. The general discussion of this issue, according to the rules, will take place for an hour of 20 – it is sufficient time for us to be able to go through the whole discussion by the second hour. Dear colleagues, please be careful when recording is a separate time for factions and groups, there is a separate time for national MPs so that we do not have any discussion during the discussion. Is it accepted? Colleagues, I give the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u76	Good afternoon! Thank you very much, fellow national MPs. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Today we will present, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft budget for 2017. On September 15, the government issued this financial master document. We would very much like to have a very high-quality discussion with you in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament about what will be the final revision of this budget. But what's important is that we've made this budget quite honestly, openly, where there's an absolute balance between income and expenditure and where there's very clear priorities, priorities that are based on economic growth, priorities that will not only allow for a certain development of our country, but also begin to restore social justice and raise social standards, and raise wages, particularly for education and doctors. I'd like to say a few words about priorities. The first priority is security and defense. This priority has been shown by the minister of finance to reflect and increase the corresponding expenditure. One priority: we're going to build Ukrainian roads, we're going to develop the economy, and we're going to develop our transport capabilities, and we're going to develop our logistics priorities. One question: I wanted to address the issues of decentralization. The project fully preserves all financial decentralization and increases the responsibility of local authorities. We're predicting an increase in salary for the Ukrainian teacher next year by 30 percent, for the Ukrainian doctor, in order of 20 percent. We're saving the entire scholarship system for our students. We are taking a completely clear step to ensure that Ukrainian citizens' medicines are fully supplied through all available programs, which unfortunately have not been implemented. We're trying this year. In the next year, keep this one as much as possible. It's a need to endure. In particular, I would like to point out that they have found their support and the issue of national culture. We've found a way to support our farmers, farmers, that's 5.5 billion dollars. We're providing an increase in expenditure in general, I'm going to say regional policy, regional development up to 9 billion dollars, this is about the State Regional Development Fund, subsidies for socio-economic development, and support for the united territorial communities. I'd like to count on today's presentation to be just the beginning of our fruitful interaction, of our constructive dialogue with a view to getting to the best possible financial document and doing it together. Because people are probably tired of waiting for actions that will allow us to experience both the development of our country and the increase in wages. But this all has to match the state of our national economy. Thank you. And we will be grateful on behalf of the government, I would like to highlight your constructive proposals and for a constructive, professional dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u77	Thank you. And I invite you to present the 2017 State Budget to Ukraine's Finance Minister Alexander Alexandrovich Daniluk. Come to the rostrum. Please. The report is in 15 minutes, Mr. Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! It is a great honour for me to present to you the budget of Ukraine for 2017 prepared by our government team. Working on the budget for 2017, we have taken into account the shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget this year. So this budget is based on the following principles: realism, perspective, prioritization, and transparency. Reality. The budget is realistic for both income and expenditure. The budget is built on a valid legislative basis, except for the legislative changes that have been made along with the budget. Perspective. Planned mid-term economic development plans and plans for reforming key areas, priority areas. At the same time, the prioritization of the spheres itself is another clear feature of the budget. The clearly defined 10 areas that will receive priority attention and funding are security, diplomacy, social standards, education, health care, the APC, road fund, energy efficiency, culture, decentralization. Transparency. Openness was both during the development of the budget and during its consideration in Parliament, for this purpose the government introduced a budget to Parliament at the right time and ready for a good dialogue with the people's deputies as well as with the expert environment. This constructive dialogue has already begun during meetings with some parliamentary factions, with other factions we will meet soon. Again, I would like to point out that there is an open discussion that was held yesterday. A committee meeting, a budget committee of the Supreme Council on a live basis, where we had an open dialogue, for which I am very grateful to all members of the committee, as well as to all those who took part in the meeting with the government team, with the factions that we met. The 2017 budget is based on realistic income and opportunities. Income is the kind of income that we can really get and the deficit that we can cover. We expect that income from taxes and from congregations will increase, not as a result of increased tax pressure on business. We don't impose tax increases, we don't have a bill except for some excise rates, and we don't have a rent on the frequency and transport of ammonia. We expect revenues to increase from practically all basic taxes and they will increase because of economic growth and because of the steps we are taking in order to manage the tax administration, to combat tax and customs abuses. It is important that the parameters and calculations of the income part of the budget have been discussed and verified with independent experts. The ceiling is clearly defined for budgetary expenditure: it is calculated as income plus a marginal deficit of 3 percent of GDP, or in absolute figures of 77 and a half billion dollars. And a deficit of 3 percent is 0.7 percent less than in 16 years, and that's the government's plan. Reducing our deficit is not only an international commitment, but it is actually a correct pragmatic policy that allows the country to live at its own expense. Such policies will allow for a balanced balance of government finances and give impetus to the country’s economy. Budget expenditures are calculated, as we said, from realistic incomes and deficits. And a ceiling at the level of seven hundred. is defined at 790 billion dollars. To use them, to use them effectively, the budget is clearly structured and focused on the financial provision of priority priorities. Ten of them are defence and security; increased funding for international activities, namely increased funding for our diplomatic representations, including the need for full commercial representation; social support for the population; education, in particular, increased salaries for teachers; health; development of road infrastructure; creation of an energy efficiency fund; support for the agro-industrial complex; support for culture and support for local and regional budgets in the context of decentralization reform. I'll stop at the top of the list. Defense. The first priority in the face of significant external challenges is to ensure the security of the state and the security of our citizens. We're going to increase the defense budget by 14 and a half billion dollars, and we're going to provide 5 percent of GDP for the security and defence sector. Thus, in 2017, the Ministry of Defence will receive 64 billion dollars, the Ministry of Defense will receive 46 billion dollars, and the Ministry of Defense will receive 6 billion dollars. We also increase the salaries of military personnel and align the level of wages between different power structures. In general, money is increasing by 8.4 billion dollars, almost 50. And it's going to be nearly 55 billion dollars, that's more than twice as much as it was in 14. It is also important to strengthen our positions on the diplomatic front. The spending of the state budget to protect state interests abroad or diplomacy has increased by 1 billion dollars, that's plus 33 percent by this year. In addition to strengthening the protection of national interests and citizens' rights abroad, as well as increasing Ukraine's positive image, the promotion of Ukraine's economic interests is an important task. We are counting on effective joint work with business support institutions that we create, investor support offices and Ukrainian export support structures. State support for socially vulnerable citizens has increased by 23 percent. The key aspect of a socioprotector is addressability. In order to assist the most vulnerable population in paying for the services of the HKG in the draft State Budget Act, the total amount of aid and housing subsidies to the population is 51 billion, which is 10.4 billion more than this year. At the same time, we predict that by increasing wages and energy efficiency measures, which we also define as a priority, the number of families that will need subsidies in the heating season will begin to decline from 17 to 18 years. Government priorities are raising social standards. So the subsistence minimum is proposed to increase by 10 percent by the end of the year, next year, in the 17th year. At least 2 percentage points are higher than the inflation rate. In 2017, the subsistence minimum will be an average per person of 1 January – 1 thousand 544 bracelets, 1 May – 1 thousand 624 bracelets and 1 December – 1 thousand 700 bracelets. Education. Increasing the quality of education is vital. The government has prioritized the development of secondary education. To our conviction, a teacher who teaches our children should receive a decent salary. So next year it's going to go up by an average of 33.5 percent. The problem of financing PTUs is solved, particularly for the first time in education subsidies, the cost of obtaining full general secondary education in vocational and technical schools. That's 1.6 billion dollars. For the first time, there are targeted costs of providing state support to participants in combat and their children for vocational and higher education. More details on wages. Now it's more detailed on wages. The average wage of teaching staff will increase. The following year, we are budgeted to increase the salaries of teachers by 2 tariff levels from 12 to 14 levels. So, as I said before, the increase is going to be 33.5 percent and, for example, the teacher's salary increase without a category is going to be plus 1 thousand 29 dollars per month, and the teacher I category is going to be 1.5 thousand dollars, 1 thousand 531 dollars per month. Changes in approaches to the payment of academic and social scholarships have also been taken into account. New approaches are taken into account for 2016. The scholarship fund has been increased by 576 million dollars, or the fund has been increased. More efficient use of funds is achieved through changes and pay-out approaches: academic scholarships are paid for by a success rating and social scholarships by family income. Protection of health. The total health expenditure next year increases by 8.2 billion. The main components are: increasing spending on centralized drug purchases to 5.9 billion dollars, in total, the costs are for the first time covered by an amount sufficient to cover the 100% need for drugs for patients with severe diseases, such as those with HIV/AIDS and those with diabetes. The increase in government budget expenditure will provide an additional $120 billion from the global fund, so together we are consolidating a resource of almost 9 billion dollars to buy drugs -- this is the first time in history. An increase in the salaries of health workers: the doctor's salary at the end of the year will be 7 000 910 bracelets, which is paid in pilot regions, not in everyone, but where reforms are currently taking place, and this is a visual example of the benefits of health reform. When planning health expenses, we used approaches to finance exclusively health care. The next one is the economic block. Of course, we have foreseen incentives for the development of key areas of the economy, which is the main investor in the budget. At the same time, to maximize resources and increase investment efficiency, we also add the costs of international partners. In 2017, 5.5 billion dollars are earmarked for the support of farmers. We plan to channel these funds, first of all, to support small farms. The financing of road infrastructure will be done through the Road Fund, with 14.2 billion dollars -- that's from the budget. And we also plan to raise an additional 27.2 billion dollars from international financial institutions, primarily from the World Bank. The same principle also applies to the creation of the Energy Efficiency Fund, where 800 million dollars are made from the budget, and from international partners we plan to include up to 3 billion dollars in the following year. So we're channeling government funds into areas where not only can we improve the quality of services for the population, but we can also ensure the creation of additional jobs. Culture. The following year, culture will not be financed by a residual principle, cultural spending increased by 1 billion dollars, particularly for the preparation and conduct of a song competition in Ukraine entitled "Europe" – 455 million dollars. Some of these funds will be recovered by Kiev because you know that they made a commitment to finance part of the funds. The production and distribution of national films is 500 million dollars. Construction of the second line of the National Museum of Holocaust Victims is 14 million dollars. Renovation works on objects of cultural heritage, including on the sites of the National Historical and Memorial Reserve of Babin Jar and the National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 million dollars. Reforms of international relations. Inter-budget relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u79	How many more, Mr. Alexander? Look. Three minutes, right? Shall we add three minutes? Please add three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u80	The decentralization process in 2017 will continue, the financial security of local communities will continue to increase, yes, the income of local budgets in 2017 will increase by 25 billion dollars or 16 percent and will be 175 billion dollars. The projected financial volume of local budgets for 2017 will be 395 billion, 59 billion more than this year or 17 percent. In order to avoid this year’s lack of financial resources for district and district budgets, an additional grant of $14.9 billion is provided for education and health facilities in the state budget. The State continues to support local budgets for investment programmes and regional development projects, as well as projects for cooperation and voluntary integration of the territorial communities, at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund and subsidies for the building of the infrastructure of the united territorial communities. The transfer policy of 2017 will remain unchanged and for local budgets there will be transfers of $219.1 billion in the national budget. Conclusion. I would like to point out that the government has moved on to medium-term public budget planning. The basic budgetary parameters are calculated for the next three years, forecasting for economic recovery and growth, balanced and equitable budgets. On the basis of economic growth and the continuation of structural reforms, we plan to ensure at the same time an increase in income and quality of services for citizens. This is in line with the goal set by the government because of the steady economic growth to raise the standard of living and the quality of life of citizens. The government is fully open and ready to cooperate with the Supreme Council. The implementation of the 2017 budget requires concerted action by legislative and executive branches of government. Thank you for your attention. Please accept the budget for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Aleksandrovitch is invited to the co-report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, Andry Vasilovich Pavelko. Please, Mr. Andrew. Mr. Alexander, please, in the cabinet. I'll remind you, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u82	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Prime Minister and members of the government! The Government had just submitted a bill on the State Budget for 2017. This is the first time in recent years that a bill has been tabled in Parliament. At the same time, passing a bill to the government allows for time limits. Namely, there is enough time in Parliament for its further consideration and constructive work. In my view, the task of the Supreme Council is to make a budget with the government with realistic indicators a budget that will become one of the main tools for the development of Ukraine's economy next year. Yesterday, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, Mr. Stepan Ivanovich, and the Minister of Finance presented the main priority projects of the State Budget for 2017 and a professional discussion took place. In the process of discussion, questions were raised about the proposed inter-budgetary ratios, first of all, the lack of resources and the transfer of new expenditure to the local level, including the use of other approaches to financing and providing education and health care; secondly, the baseless transfer to finance from local budgets of individual, defined by the legislation of citizens' benefits and compensation for extended travel. Questions were also raised about the adequacy of the provision of direct budget support to the APC in 2017 in connection with the completion of the special VAT regime for agrarians. The importance of State support for industry, as well as the creation of a road fund, was actively discussed, while strengthening control over the efficiency of the use of appropriate budget funds. In particular, it is appropriate to note that the income part of the government budget project is designed to take into account government initiatives under tax legislation. It should be noted, therefore, that the reality of budget revenues depends to a large extent on the laws adopted under the headings 5044 and 5032. In addition, at the same time as the draft budget, the government has submitted other system-related bills, namely, 5131, concerning changes to the Budget Code, and 5,130 concerning changes to other legislation. Thus, such bills should be considered in a mutually agreed manner with a view to achieving a balanced budget. The committee has already begun to actively draft the bill and is expected to draw conclusions and suggestions for the first reading by considering proposals made by legislators. Therefore, we pay attention to committee members who make their proposals in accordance with the requirements of article 156 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Basically, all proposals should be submitted to the Budget Committee no later than October 1. In doing so, proposals to increase the cost or decrease the revenue of the State budget should identify the sources of their coverage, i.e. to be balanced. In general, everyone wants to increase the budget, but it is important to remember that real, not invented, sources of income are needed. Of course, for each of us, the priority is to increase wages and social pay, but we need to rely on the real state of affairs in the economy. So I encourage my colleagues to objectively approach the evaluation of the draft budget, not to speculate on the subject, not to provide. a provide for the technical processing of the State Budget project. Thank you for your attention and invite everyone to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. But I'm asking you to stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, we have 15 minutes to answer the questions and questions to both reporters. Come on, Mr. Andrew, we're from you first. Or from the minister? From the minister. Okay. Look, let's do it this way, it's 15 minutes, let's not tell who the question is, and to whom the question will be asked, he will answer. Is that accepted? Then we don't divide 15 minutes, we give them one block, but whoever the speaker asks the question is going to answer it. It's a deal, colleagues. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording, colleagues. And I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter and the co-rapporteur. Please record. Please, Drauk Sergei. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Burbaku Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Thank you for the meaningful presentation of the Budget Act 2017. All the positions that the People's Front stood for, I heard they were confirmed. The first is that at least 5 percent of gross domestic product goes to defence and national security. The second is that the supported initiative of Minister of Science and Education, Lilia Grinevich, to raise the salaries of teachers by 33.5 percent. And the question is, please tell me if you will be able to increase funding for national security this year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the DDSN, so that the reform of the National Police will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u86	Let me answer that. Dear Maxime Yuriovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, thank you for supporting this draft budget. And we're counting on a further professional discussion. I'd like to talk about the steps the government is taking this year. We have recently considered the issue of ensuring the rhythmic financing of national security and defence, namely: the Ministry of Defence and the material security of our military, the National Police, the Foreign Service, the National Guard. And in this regard, the government has devised the possibility of targeting 6 billion dollars to ensure that by the end of the year, due to the changes to the state budget that we are going to send to the Ukrainian Parliament, the rhythmic financing of this area is ensured. I'd like to get your attention. The government has identified itself as a very important priority: effective fight against banditry, robbery, racketeering, theft, theft. Today, we have huge problems with this for all of us: conflict has made it possible for us to know about ourselves inside the country. So together with the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the National Police, we've developed a set of measures that will allow us to reinforce Ukraine's criminal search so that we can give these guys, the regular operas, a normal salary -- and they've started to work objectively to fight crime. Another question we need from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to increase our responsibility for robbery, theft, robbery, and other serious crimes. We will count on the Ukrainian Parliament to support these initiatives, and we will be able to change this legislation in the near future. Because the one who kills is the one who rapes, the one who robs should be in prison, not walking on the loose. Obviously, legislation will also need changes that have recently been adopted by Parliament. I think this is a mistake that we all need to make together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u88	I ask you to pass the word to Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u89	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, of the budget you have submitted today, you are spending excessively on local self-governance, such as energy bills, utility fees, pay for administrators and medical institutions. By our calculations and by the tariffs you've raised, it's about 16 and a half billion dollars, two thirds of the revenue you've received from local communities. It seems to me that they should develop rather than eat up these costs. That's the first one. The second is the agrarian complex. Most of the money, Vladimir Borisovich, from the special funds, is the confiscation or sale of property. I ask you to change the source of the coming directly from this article to support small farmers. So if you don't give these money to farmers, they'll be lying. Please change that separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u90	Thank you so much for your question. The first is decentralization. I am the kind of person who stands in the mainstream of decentralization in the country and, including the model of financial decentralization, was developed by the first government I have embraced, the first government after the Dignity Revolution led by Arsenij Petrovich Yatsenuk, I have assumed the position of VP. And you know, you're here, fighting and fighting for financial decentralization to take place, although not all political forces, have to tell the truth, support it, and it's a huge brake for further decentralization. I'd like to draw your attention to the following. That no prices and tariffs have changed for the country’s budget, neither for education nor for health care this year, you have just said false information because the budget area has always been priced according to the market. As far as I'm concerned. So that's not going to affect the amount of the payments. As far as funding is concerned. As you've seen from the finance minister's presentation, the growth of local budgets this year will be at a level of plus 25 billion dollars. That's another increase in budgets, that's important enough. And I can tell you that we don't just have to put money in places, we have to increase responsibility. This responsibility is that owners of schools, hospitals, and schools should make these hospitals and schools energy efficient. And they have completely full financial capacity for this. I can share every measure with you, and I can show you where this money is, how I think it would be used not to keep it on deposit, but to make it work for the national economy, for energy efficiency and for our energy dependency. So I want to assure you that in the budget, the state budget for the next year is fully decentralized with the real responsibility of local authorities. I want to emphasize that if there is a problem at the level of, for example, an area or an area next year that needs to be balanced and supported, we have put 14.9 billion dollars of resources that can be allocated to this kind of support. No threats, no disruptions in funding, no excessive loss of local budgets in this system is and will not be. On the contrary, it's a resource, it's a responsibility, it's an efficiency, it's the effectiveness of the local government, which has to be accountable and accountable to local communities, so that every citizen knows where and how the money is spent. Because if we're giving you energy subsidies, there's no energy efficiency stimulus. A million, a million, have spent, 10 to 10 have spent, and now each will count his own copy. And I'm convinced that this will make Ukraine stronger, and that it will become more local self-government. Thank you for asking. Now for the agrarian. agrarian support. I want you to just get this straight and get it. Five and a half billion dollars will be equal to one percent of the gross production of the agribusiness complex. This means that five and a half billion dollars, regardless of any source, will be filled with real resources and will be funded. I'm asking you to just take a look at it and then I've been asked every neighborhood, and I'm responsible for what I'm saying. So every penny in the agrarian sector will be fully funded. I would like to say that we're counting, dear friends, we're counting on, honourable friends, that the Ukrainian Parliament will help our law enforcement system, the justice system in an entirely civilized way to return to the state budget the funds that have been stolen by criminal regimes or criminal regimes, because there are a lot of authors of these funds that have been stolen from the state, which means to Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, our obligation to pay back these expenses is with you. Blocking this process will result in these costs being spent outside Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u91	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u92	I'm sorry, a little bit. I would like everyone to realize that one and a half billion dollars they stole from the Ukrainians should be put back in the budget, and the budget should be used in a very transparent way. This means that government purchases are transparent. You know, there's a data site today that has a total of all of the public budget expenditures per penny. We're open, we're public, and the main thing is that we're going to be effective. Thank you for supporting the initiatives and thank you for supporting the future budget for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u94	I personally want to thank the entire government for their quality work. Thank you very much, Mrs. Lilia Greenevich. And please hand over the microphone to Deputy Amazanov, People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u95	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable officials, I have a rather simple question for you, which, at the same time, sparked a heated debate in Parliament during this year and to which you have already, in principle, begun to answer. We all know that a new, last draft of the law on special confiscation has now been introduced to Parliament. We have all heard that the President, in his annual letter, stressed the need to adopt this bill in any form. We all understand that there is now a need to support our army, the security of our state. I'd like to hear from the government, does the government support the People's Front faction's initiative on the need to adopt this bill? Is the government planning the funds?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u96	Please finish, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u97	And whether the government is planning to adopt this bill, and I am convinced that it should be approved in this Parliament, to distribute this money, as proposed by the People's Front: 50 percent to secure the security, to increase the salaries of the new police officers, to increase the salaries of the military, to secure their salaries, and another 50 percent to raise social standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. In fact, the government introduced the latest version of the Special Confiscation Act to the Ukrainian Parliament yesterday. We support the fact that the funds that were stolen should be returned, and this is our responsibility. I just can't imagine who's going to take responsibility if, God forbid, these funds disappear. I think that anyone who doesn't vote for us in a civilized way -- that's in no way blackmail -- to restore justice, there will be huge questions. We put $10.5 billion in the budget for the next year. Colleagues, the total amount of seizures is 40 billion dollars. And if someone says that we took the incredible revenue and put it in the budget revenue, that's not true, because I gave you the figure. And of course, we support that these 40 billion dollars should be spent on the development of the national economy, to support our resilience and, as a result, to raise social standards for Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Kudlainko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear government officials! I would like to ask you a question about how we had a problem this year with the maintenance of health facilities, vocational schools, and others. The local budgets, unfortunately, are no longer able to cope with this strain. And I would like to ask you, does the government have any reason to expect that next year we will not have such scandals about the PTU and health institutions? And how are we going to solve this problem together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. In fact, these issues needed to be settled in the budget. The next year’s draft budget provides 1.6 billion dollars to support the work of CTU. What's more, we think that vocational education should be completely modernized, because those children, those young people that we teach today, are being cut off from most of their modern technological processes in the real economy. So our task, on the one hand, we're transferring them to the area level, we're providing support for the resource, but on the other hand, we have to ensure the modernization of education programmes and the integration of vocational education into the real economy. And here are some great international models that we're going to work on to make sure that the different-level frame-up orders are completely appropriate to the demand that's in the labor market. There is a need, accordingly, for real forecasting that we will have, what growth, in which sectors three, five or more years later. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u102	Thank you, fellows of honor! The final question of the Good House is to move on to the factions of the factions, a colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u103	Good afternoon! I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u104	Good afternoon! Oleg Musei. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to thank you for finally having the opportunity to discuss the budget with the National Deputies as opposed to the "poperedniks" and the previous governments. And to agree with your estimate of the previous budgets, by calling your budget honest, you probably also think, as most people in Ukraine think, that the previous budgets were dishonest, which corresponded to the opinion of the people of Ukraine. Regarding health care, I would like to ask you. The budget provides only 400 million dollars for the Academy of Sciences, and another billion dollars for last year's 1 billion 400. How will these health institutions of the Academy of Sciences be financed? And the question was from Yvchenk about the transfer to local budgets. This was the right question, because there is a bill that is accompanied by the government, a government budget -- 5131 -- changes to the budget code. And that's where it's broadcast to the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u105	I'll start with the second question. And I said, in fact, whoever owns the property has to keep it and make it energy efficient. Because if we're giving a subsidy to pay for energy, they're just taking and spending, they don't have a motivation for modernizing, and we really need modernisation. So today there are funds in the local budgets, and I can show you the leftovers, and you'll see that these costs are not enough, but they are enough to do quality work. And it's very good that we've passed a fair count on the local budgets. There are troubled communities that are very weak, that are incompetent, and we help them through other mechanisms, but at the same time, the issue is completely objective. I think our task with you is to provide enough subsidies for the educational process, and here we're betting, for example, an increase in salary from 1,000 300 dollars to the teacher, we now have to increase the prestige of the Ukrainian teacher's work. Because whatever other professions we have, all the other representatives depend on the state of our national education. And it's important that this priority be defined as being separate and moving very quickly. As far as I'm concerned. And the teachers' salary, it's very important here. As far as the Academy of Sciences is concerned, I want you to understand my personal position, I'm ready for discussion here, I want to support the initiative not to fund the Academy of Sciences, I want to support the Ukrainian Science Financing Initiative. And I think there's a huge difference in these two approaches, and we want to support science, and that's what we have to invest with you and ensure the development of our tap. And if we're going to finance the Academy, it's going to mean that we're going to finance buildings, repairs, reconstructions, nice cabinets, and that's not acceptable, this method has shown itself in the past period. And what you said in the past government, I would like to respond to it and consider it my duty. In fact, if you remember last year, in September and October, and in November, there was a discussion: Will the tax system be new or not? There will be changes to the Tax Code, will there not? And in principle, the budget options were different: both of them and those, but it was only necessary when there was consensus on a new tax base. Since this was not accepted, the past government did not make this offer. So they were forced to register and withdraw. On our part today, we're not changing the tax system, and for me it's a priority, as for our government, it's a question of an honest budget through an honest dialogue, because of a completely professional approach, not the approach that we hear from some politicians who are trying to convert an honest budget, an honest approach, the opportunity to discuss on the Pokémon show. That won't happen. We will do everything we can to complete the budget process with a national budget that will ensure: (a) an increase in the national economy and macroeconomic stability and (b) an increase in social standards. We have to ensure social justice with each year and month, and this is our job with you. We'll be grateful for every political force, and I met or met with Peter Prashenko's Block yesterday with the People's Front faction, the Self-Help faction, and I'll meet with other groups and factions. I really want to ask you for a constructive dialogue. Or for the first time, we can demonstrate that we are real statesmen, not cheap, depressed, evil, rematched politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. And I'm now announcing a statement from the MP factions and groups, colleagues, and then there'll be statements from the deputies in a separate block, and I'm going to fix it in advance, but every group and faction that wants to make a statement will be able to make a statement in that block. Please hold the recording. Please sign up. The first is the Radical Party, and the word is given to Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u107	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister and Government! The Radical Party faction analyzes this budget project, we're going to make our systemic proposals to it, but from the very beginning, there are obvious very serious issues that arise at this stage of the previous review. You're saying that this budget is fair, that the incomes it provides are absolutely reliable. We have serious doubts about this. So if you and I look at the tax, at the profit of the enterprises, it's projected to grow by 19 percent. If we see you with, for example, internal taxes on goods and services -- an increase of 24 percent. And I want to point out that you're predicting an increase in GDP by 3 percent and inflation by 8.1 percent. Three percent and eight percent add up to 12, but it's not 19 and it's not 24. So the question is, isn't there a hidden inflation budget that's actually going to be 8 percent? Is that not a prerequisite? Moreover, the minister of finance says there will be no rise in tax pressure. So I have a question: where does a 3-percent increase in the economy and 8 per cent of inflation take such a significant advance in tax revenue, including income tax, which has been falling for over three years? It's a very serious question. Other articles, for example, take such an article as large and serious, such as the confiscated funds derived from the realisation of property for the commission of corruption offences, you predict 10.5 billion -- right? This year there are 7.8 billion. You know how much you actually got into the budget? I'll remind you, 80,000 dollars. Are these incomes completely inflated and impossible to implement? As far as the spending is concerned, there are serious questions. Look at the power grid. Energy investment, energy savings, is 0.8 billion dollars, and subsidies are 53 billion. So this is about the conservation of poverty, the conservation of energy dependence, the fact that we're not going to fix the situation this coming year. Not a penny to stimulate exports, no matter what the second reading, is the exit of the Export Credit Agency bill. This is one of the four most important factors that shape GDP. If we don't encourage exports of Ukrainian industry today, what are we going to live with you for? At the expense of IMF loans and hidden inflation? This is not the way the Radical Party faction agrees with. So we're going to make our proposals for animal support, energy-efficient technologies, export incentives, and we're going to propose to the government that they be taken into account, because without them, it's not possible to adopt the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u108	Thank you. From the "Opposition Block," Voropayev Yuri Mikolaiovich passes the word Yuri Boyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, the government of Ukraine! First: I want to say that the position of our faction: the budget review should be public and open, unlike that of the past two years. This was a disgrace to our country. And we believe that the budget should meet two criteria and answer two basic questions for society. The first is the social welfare of people in the country and the welfare of citizens. The second is economic growth and, as a result, the country's GDP growth and other positive macro-indicators. When we analyze the first cluster of issues, we see that when we adopt and implement this draft budget, people in the country will live worse because wage and pension indexes will be lagging behind real inflation and price increases. Accordingly, over the course of a year, the population will be poor, especially as a result of the rise in public services tariffs, as has already happened this year. It is clear that government-announced subsidies are not enough to fully compensate for the increase in municipal tariffs. The other one. Does this budget allow GDP to increase at the expense of the real economy? From our point of view, no. The projected growth in the budget is 17 per cent at the government's official 8 per cent inflation rate, but all international experts expect inflation to rise by 11 per cent and further devaluation by 15 per cent. So real measures, namely: tax cuts, affordable lending, sectoral support for economics -- there is no budget in the project. As appropriate, there are doubts about the 3% increase in GDP and the fullness of the government's budget. In addition, there is another very dangerous factor in the implementation of the budget, which is not directly related to the indicators, is the massive corruption of customs and the total flow of smuggling that goes into the country, on the one hand, and on the other, it encounters a thorough export of natural resources, starting with amber and finishing with woodwood. Our faction is ready to discuss with the government. We will prepare our proposals for the 2017 budget, but we will not vote for the budget if it makes people's lives worse. We need to see measures to support the real economy and achieve positive economic indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Welcome to Victoria Vojcitsky's word, the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u111	Good afternoon, colleagues. Good afternoon, Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister and the people of Ukraine! The 2017 budget should not only be honest, realistic, but also fair to people. As far as his reality is concerned. If we look at the income section with you, there's a lot of doubt. First. The National Bank's budget is over 40 billion. This year alone, 2016, we haven't gotten 38 billion from the National Bank yet, because we haven't formed a Supervisory Board. Whether we get 41 next year is a big question mark. A corresponding amount of more than 40 billion is invested in the coming of rent payments. Crohnafta, a semi-state company, owed more than ten and a half billion to the state, and the State Fiscal Service is doing nothing to get that money. Will we receive the corresponding income in the following year? The question of confiscation is this is a very strange situation at all. The government budget is set up in project 10 and a half billion, and we hear the sum of one and a half billion dollars. What difference does it make? There is no doubt that we need to maintain a specific confiscation, but let's work out where the rest of the damage is. Well, let's get to honesty. Is it fair to say that the stimulus of the economy is to be achieved through infrastructure projects and, directly, the 14 billion that are offered to direct road construction? But at the same time, if we compare them with the amount that's going for energy efficiency, only 800 million. Is that fair? Today we are actually pushing people into shock therapy by setting market prices for energy resources. Does the state give people the opportunity to do what they need to do to save energy, or 800 million plus 100 million euros that we might get in international aid, or is that enough? Let's sit down, do the math and watch, but we have to help people today. And the last. When we talk about taking money from local budgets and they have to pay their own energy bills, let's ask the question again. On the one hand, we say, "They have enough money to pay for it," and on the other hand, we say, "This should stimulate energy efficiency." So maybe then let's redirect the money that was going to be directed at energy resources to stimulate energy conservation. Apart from the millions of cities, there are small towns that have huge problems filling local budgets, so let's be fair to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u112	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Anton Kisse, "The Rebirth Party." Vitaly Hometic, please. "The Rebirth Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media! We just got an update on what the budget is going to be in next year. Of course, the positive thing is that for the first time, as the government said, we got a budget at the right time. And the government did not take the steps that had been taken in previous years: it did not withdraw the document, it went to work with the committees, it went to work with the factions. And you can actually say that this was done for the first time. The last time we presented the budget, we always heard the same word: for the first time, for the first time, for the first time, for the first time. So this time we've heard a lot about what's going to happen, but we haven't heard the answers that we're being asked about in our districts. We didn't hear what was actually going to happen to the Ukrainian village. After 1 January of the following year, the tax system will be completely altered and a special tax regime will be seized for the peasant, the money that is set at five and a half billion is highly doubtful that they will reach those who really need it. Our position will be to leave a special regime for small businesses, to set certain criteria for these enterprises. Also, we have not heard a word about what will happen to pensions and how much more pensions and social benefits will increase. Not a word from the Minister of Finance, not a word from the Prime Minister. Our position is that social pay should be increased to inflation and consumer price increases over the last two years. It's not 5 percent, it's not 10 percent, it's what's proposed. Social benefits should be raised by at least 50 percent. And the minimum subsistence minimum, which is now even to be calculated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, should be 2 000 709 dollars, not 1 thousand 600 dollars, as proposed at the end of next year. Also with regard to local budgets. Decentralization, which started last year, we see that step by step the results of this decentralization are completely overturned by the fact that each year more and more expenditures are being translated into local budgets. And now we can say that next year we're finally going to put the cross on decentralization, because those expenses are going to be disproportionate. There is also great doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u114	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u115	There is great doubt in those optimistic projections of rising income from the growth of macroeconomic indicators. 3 percent of GDP growth, given that no one in the government is doing economics, I think that's a fairly optimistic forecast and our concern is that these 130 billion that have been added to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u116	Please, the last 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u117	They won't be here. And we're going to have to review this budget in the next, mid-year or end-of-year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Bandurov, the "Will of the People" Group. Vladimir Litwin, "The Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u119	Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, honourable colleagues! The philosopher Vladimir Solovov has a beautiful phrase: "The state exists, not to transform earthly life into a paradise, but to prevent it from finally becoming a hell." I think we need to find that the government has to, the new government to work under absolutely difficult conditions. Well, first of all, Ukraine is the poorest country in Europe. Its economy is the economy of a colonial country. Ukraine’s GDP stands at 57 percent since 1990 when all post-Radians countries exceeded 15-30 percent. And I can see that the government came out of those real possibilities, and that gives me reason to say that the budget is really open and honest. But at the same time, we also have to consider the fact that people have absolute hope and do not want to hear about the real situation in the country. In fact, there's only one hope left for people, saying to the forest of Ukraine, "I have neither fate nor will, but only one hope left." And at the same time, if you look at the budget, unfortunately, we can't solve the problem of the poorest of the population, given the minimum cost of living, the minimum wage. But at the same time, I think we're losing and supporting those we can take to the middle class. If we don't have a stable, powerful middle class, stability and predictability in the country. And I think this could be considered the first positive step of the government towards raising the wages of teachers and doctors who are supposed to make up the middle class's bone. I think the positive thing is that the government doesn't offer us the laws of happiness: stopping, distinguishing social laws. But, at the same time, we need to determine, but what about the twelve laws that are proposed in the Final Positions to suspend or finance, coming out of the real possibilities of government. And in this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, the Law on Science and Technology. I fully agree with you that we need to finance science, not scientific institutions. At the same time, however, the Academy of Medical Sciences cannot be removed from funding institutions that are supposed to provide highly specialized medical care. That's ridiculous. They're going to make money from these institutions, but people won't be able to have absolutely access to medicine. I'd like to take that into account just like the point where we take it to the Academy, the National Academy of Polyclinic Sciences." Well, we don't have to rob them until the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva, the "Fatherland" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, representatives of the government! I think today's discussion should end with a sufficiently clear decision. What is it? I'm not going to repeat those that sounded about the unrealization of the income part of the budget in part of the so-called specific confiscation, no one is saying about the unrealisation of the income of the budget in the privatization part, where an amount that is about three hundred times higher than what we got in the previous year. But I don't think that's even scary. Let's start with the amount of the confiscation. Everyone knows that 85 percent of the 1.5 billion arrested securities and funds are just securities. And here's the question. The fact that the government has taken into account the order of consideration in the civil process is a plus. And what about these securities, they're still, as in the previous versions of the laws, going to sell the discount? And that's not going to be paid off by the internal debt of a state that's already up to 2.3 trillion dollars. If that's the case, I'm sorry, then what's the confiscation? The second question is that you don't change or increase the tax burden. So let's look at this in the village and in the farm. Yes, really, you don't make any changes, and you don't have to make them, because the special tax regime for farmers has been prolonged for a year. And since we don't prolong it in this budget, it automatically goes into the only tax regime, like for large agroholdings, and farmers will lose almost 25 to 27 billion dollars, instead of promising them 5 billion dollars, and from funds that we understand are not guaranteed to finance. The third question is strategy. Well, if it's planned: to increase the number of people receiving subsidies from 4.5 million families to 9 million families by the end of next year is from 13 million total families, sorry, and then where is the increase in wages? If the teacher's salary goes up by 30 percent, how do you plan to double the number of families to receive subsidies? Another point that's very principled. What enabled Janukovich and the company to raise funds? Vladimir Borisovich, look at the project that was taken out of consideration today, thanks to God, is further changes to the Cyprus Agreement. These are actually additional changes that continue to legitimize the country's offshore regime. Instead, the introduction law, which we have repeatedly referred to as indicative pricing, does not go into Parliament in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u123	These are actually derived from a special regime that was so difficult to approve, including through the support of the International Monetary Fund back in 2013. I think all of this makes it really important to review not only the macro-indicators of the budget, because it's still going on, but it's also going on with the budgeting strategy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Anointed Andriy Vitaliyovich of the People's Front conveys the word to the leader of the People's Front faction Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! Thank you for presenting the Ukrainian Budget Act for the following year, and thank you very much -- this is a thank you from the whole faction -- that all the basic positions of the People's Front were taken into account in its development. Let's start by saying that I think this budget should be a budget for economic growth. And three percent of GDP growth is also a positive signal and a result of the work of the previous government, which has been implementing reforms for 2.5 years that no one has done in 23 years. And the credit given to the IMF and the credit guarantees issued yesterday by the U.S. government also confirm that the stability of the Ukrainian economy has taken place despite the screams and the cries that have all gone and that we will have the default, this has not happened. But now it is necessary to anticipate in the budget and expenses of the necessary articles, expenses. First. This is the position of the People's Front in terms of supporting expenditure in the budget at least 5 percent to increase the security and national security of our country. That's 129 billion dollars. Second position. This is a supported initiative by the minister of education and science to raise teachers ’ salaries by 30 percent. This is also considered. Third. This is a continuation of the repair of roads across Ukraine and the allocation of 14 billion dollars per branch. There's an initiative by the People's Front to continue the experiment on the distribution of 50 percent of customs budgets to keep this money in areas and go to road repairs. Next. We also have to support our students' scholarships and eventually introduce an experiment on the distribution of scholarships to social and academic schools, which will stimulate our children to learn better. The main thing is that you've increased the funding of our diplomatic institutions abroad. It's very necessary. In view of yesterday’s historic decision by our parliament, in which we condemned the elections and the political farce that took place in Russia. It was an initiative of the People's Front and our leader, Arsenius Yatsenuk. And now our diplomatic missions should protect our interests more effectively in the external markets. And the main thing is the position of the People's Front, so that you can predict in this budget increased funding for the European Wall building, because for the first time, the border demarcation work with Russia was started, with the aggressor country, we have to defend ourselves and build defense buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u126	Thank you. And a closing statement from Peter Dustenk's Block, Soloy Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear members of the government! Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, it is a pleasure to observe today that Ukraine's budget for the following year is implemented in accordance with current legislation, and this gives confidence that national MPs are doing a good job on the draft law and giving confidence that Ukraine is starting to move towards sustainable development. In terms of the draft budget itself, I would call it absolutely real and that budget project, which corresponds primarily to macroeconomic indicators that are not only formed by the Ministry of Economics, but also supported by international institutions such as the World Bank and the International Bank. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development So the budget is calculated from GDP growth of 3 percent, with inflation of 9 percent at an exchange rate of 27 dollars per U.S. dollar. The point is that this draft budget is absolutely real, this draft budget is not populist, and this draft budget is a factor that allows us to talk about the possibility of growing the Ukrainian economy in 2017. One particular factor that I would like to point out is that the draft budget has clear priorities, and I thank the government that issues such as security, issues such as our education, issues such as road construction and issues such as the decentralization of Ukrainian power are a priority for the work of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament in 2017. In addition, I wanted to point out that this budget allows us to talk in 2017 about solutions to those issues that haven't been resolved in a long time, but that need to be resolved today. And I would like, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, to draw your attention to the issue of subsidies. It's a perfectly correct system to support socially vulnerable populations, but the existing mechanism for receiving subsidies in shadow economy is, for me, imperfect. And I think one of the closest priorities should be the monetaryization of subsidies and the transfer of these subsidies into monetary form. In addition, I think we've seen 50 billion medical expenses equally important. I think it's time to talk in 2017 about the progressive introduction of insurance medicine, and I think that this reform should be one of the key in 2017. We understand clearly that the only social contribution we have had to reduce is a very serious increase in the pension deficit. I think it's 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u128	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u129	I believe that in 2017 we should also, together with the government, complete the reform. pension reform in Ukraine. And to conclude, I want to point out one thing that Ukraine is on a progressive path today, today's budget is absolutely real, and there's enough time in the national deputies to process it and get to know it. Let's make the 2017 budget together the way Ukrainian society and Ukrainian citizens want to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u130	Thank you, dear fellows. It's now 10 minutes for speeches by national MPs, by national MPs. Whoever wants to take part in the discussion, please record the speeches by the National Deputies, then the Prime Minister's closing word, and we will conclude the discussion. Please record. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u131	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, this draft budget, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers into the Parliamentary Hall this year, is indeed real and is able to be implemented by 100 percent in the following year. But let's not forget that so much depends on us, in particular, and coming to the budget depending on what laws we're going to adopt, how we're going to work with you here. And it is absolutely unacceptable that today, as Wednesday shows, very few of our colleagues in the hall. We're looking at Ukrainian society, people are demanding our increase in pensions, wages, social expenditures, but we can't do that, because we're working very poorly with you as the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, let's improve our discipline, and that will depend on the quality of our work, the quality of the documents we prepare and accept in this room. And then we're going to demand more than the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I wish you success in the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we're going to accept, we're going to support, and there's going to be a budget for 2017 for really Ukrainian, really for the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u132	Zubkoj Lubomir Lvović. He's giving the word to Deputy Ostrecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u133	Please, Aunty Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, I'm going to have a speech on two issues, and both of these issues concern, in fact, the revenue of the State Budget. The first question concerns taxes on added value and agrarians. Minfin predicted VAT revenues in 2017 at 280 billion dollars, taking into account the elimination of agricultural subsidies. If you count it, that's 11 percent of GDP. If we look at how much VAT is collected for the added value in European countries, given that they have the practice of using reduced VAT rates in 112 EU Directives and they have the premiums, this will be the average EU rate – 7 percent of VAT is collected. Mr. Prime Minister, the question arises accordingly, on the basis of what in Ukraine will such innovative instruments in Ukraine raise 4% of GDP per tax on added value more than average in EU countries? So that we don't collect here on business as well as on overpayments and so on and so forth. Now for the support of the agrarians. There's 5 and a half billion dollars in direct support of the agrarians in your budget. At the same time, we know that Minfin estimates that the resource from the special VAT regime for the agricultural sector is 28 billion. Under the DFS accounts, that's a lower amount. This is the resource that will be released if the special one is cancelled. I want to ask you what the difference between 28 and 5 billion is. This actually means, in my opinion, a tax hike. increasing the tax burden on the economy. The next thing you want to hear from you, we had the opportunity to ask you yesterday when we met the faction, but we didn't hear the answer. What is the effect of verifying recipients of social benefits? You said the working group is working, but this group has been working for a long time now, and what's the effect of verification from throwing away all the dead souls registers, put into this budget. And what's the effect of ProZorro? Sadly, this information is not available to us today. I ask you, what is the resource of cancelling the security, and why is there so little support, and what is the effect of verifying the benefits, the beneficiaries, and the use of ProZorro? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u135	Thank you. The speech is given to Kishkara Paul Mikolaiovich. He passes the word to Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u136	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, there are a few questions. The first is defense. It's a good thing that 5 percent, for the first time in our lives, we're doing this. But who said that 5 percent should be during the war? You and I don't follow a standard where 3 percent is actually going to the Ministry of Defense, because 5, that's all the power in the department. We're going to have about two and a half percent, and that's going to have to be adjusted. Next question, Mr. Prime Minister. We realize that when the budget is realistic, we need to set ambitious goals. Everyone says: both internal experts, and you've stressed, and foreign experts, that we have at least 100 billion at the customs office, so the things that we need extra expenses, and that's primarily development costs, are the costs of creating jobs, that's for an Expert Credit Agency, they need to be found funding sources. I offer you to take an ambitious goal and put into plans to collect excise and import VAT, to make increased commitments and not to praise our taxpayers, that they are constantly doing something, and that they are doing it to carry out real plans. Next question. Costs from the gaming business. Once again, Mr. Prime Minister, we need to legalize the gaming business, because today it is the business of prosecutors, esbians and militias. Those laws that are now in the Supreme Council, we know how and to whom money is given so that they do not vote. Because the casino is now operating in every city, except it's not going to the state's pocket. It's 5 to 7 billion dollars if you take on the right legalization of this area. The next question is narrow: the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. The SP is 340 million dollars, that's thousands of acres. But there is no farmer in Ukraine who is the worst in terms of mismanagement. It has to be at least 10 times larger. When this crazy land bank brings in just 340 million dollars of revenue, we understand that there are constant linings on each hectare. [[Applause]] The next question is, first of all, development costs. You and I have no chance of adopting this budget if it doesn't give people a sense of where jobs will be. We need to carry out the Coalition Agreement with you, and this is one of the conditions under which we have committed ourselves to supporting you as Prime Minister. And you also said about industrial parks that you're going to be doing engineering and transport infrastructure, and the Export Credit Agency, and other development tools. I very much ask you, Volodymyr Borisovich, find 2-3 days in your busy schedule, go to Poland, Lithuania, Hungary, Turkey, copy their tools and give the first money in the next year to get us back to work. Include foreign partners as supervisory boards to make these tools transparent, and energy conservation, and everyone else, and then we'll support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u137	Thank you. And the closing statement is Musei Oleg Stepanovich. Then the closing word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to give you an answer as well. The Academy of Medical Sciences you were talking about is about funding science. In fact, the Academy of Medical Sciences is a unique establishment where there are 35 research institutes, but in those scientific institutes they provide highly specialized medical care. And it's not about funding science, it's about financing people's health care. In the IHO system, other institutions that provide highly specialized assistance do not exist. So if you cut that billion dollars right now, it's just impossible to give the population of Ukraine high-specialized aid. Therefore, these costs need not only to be left behind but also to be increased in order to develop them. Next. As far as the medical subsidy you mentioned is concerned, it's for energy carriers. Today, medical subsidies amount to 46 billion dollars. You leave 46 billion dollars again next year. But it is generally known that there are no wages for November and December in more than half of health care facilities. This is exactly the situation I have in the district: there is not enough for the salary of this medical subsidy that exists now. And if we don't increase the medical subsidy, and we put extra pressure on that medical subsidy in the form of energy carriers still paying, like local utilities, it's going to look just like the collapse and disaster of local health facilities. Please pay attention to this too. I think you can take that into account when you work on the budget. In addition, I would suggest that you consider not only an increase of 10 percent of the wage to the budgeters, but also a unique phenomenon that can be introduced in Ukraine, such as the sector's pay for the work of the export workers. In fact, we have European prices on energy, European prices on gas, European prices on many things. We're exporting a metal industry and an agrarian industry. The oligarchs who hold this branch are receiving income. So why don't we introduce industry pay standards, for example, at least twice as much as the average wage on the metal industry, energy or agriculture. And they're getting that money from selling it in the world markets, so it would be absolutely logical to get at least 5 billion dollars just because of the introduction of the industry's pay. So please, when I work on the budget, I have great hope that you will take into account the wishes of the national MPs, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. And the debate between factions and deputies is over. And I'm going to conclude, three minutes, and finally, we're not going to stop the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We invite you to the words of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Please. And I'm going to continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much to the Ukrainian National Deputies for their constructive consideration of the presentation of the budget. I think there are a lot of good thoughts in this room today that we need to use for our further work together. And I want to emphasize that all the professional proposals that are not populist, that will not push our country into the economic gap, but will ensure economic growth, we will support them, and here the government is completely open. Obviously, the growth that we're putting in about 17 percent of the revenue in the next budget is obviously a completely real indicator. And there's no excess figures that say that they can't be implemented in the budget. So he's realistic, he's honest, and he's a budget that we can discuss with you. Undoubtedly, I would very much like it to be better in the walls of Parliament. And we'll do anything for it. A few things I'd like to say. Oleg Stepanovich said something about treatment. In fact, there is a high-tech medical aid that is provided by highly specialized institutes of the Academy of Medical Sciences even there are certain regional programs and distributions of these services when a person needs to do a high-tech operation and can only be done in Kiev, only in the institute. So this question needs to be settled, and, I think you and I are settling it for second reading, and this is an entirely objective situation. As far as I'm concerned. You know, I hear about subsidies, about prices, about tariffs, and don't you think we should just stop speculating on these things with you? Does it not seem to us that we should simply stop people from being afraid of what is not there? We've determined that we have an import parity for the price of gas. The import parity is so that, there, not all the appliances, the diagrams and the gas kings and the queens on this resource that belongs to the whole state. We made a decision: Since May 1, we have eliminated this hole. This hole cost billions of dollars a year, and they were paid huge sums even by those sitting in this room. In addition, these funds were spent in support of certain small factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm just saying that we have to finally establish justice. We have to say that a rich person has to pay as much as it costs, and a person with low, temporary low incomes will be fully protected by the state, so there's a subsidy mechanism. You started playing this record last year: "caraul," "all gone," "armageddon." But it didn't happen to Armageddon, it was just you talking about it. And this year everything will be perfectly normal: every family will be protected, every family will be supported, every family will be compensated on an income-dependent basis, and this is fundamentally important. And the oligarchs will pay the full price. Those who drive expensive Mercedes here, I think you can see cars in front of the Supreme Council, they'll pay the full price. We're not going to compensate for the waste in the Heatcommunergo, we're not going to fund different water ducts or anything else, where there's a difference in tariffs, energy and so on. We don't have to do this with you, we have to know everything to people, a particular Ukrainian who needs help today. Why don't you say that we've increased the payments for solid fuel from three to four thousand, why you don't talk about it, for the countryside. So what I want to say is this hysteria is going to go away when we do the first housing-communal calculations. This is going to happen on November 15th. On November 15, the situation would simply disappear from the order of the day, for every Ukrainian would look at it and realize that it was the State that protected it. That's why I understand someone's intolerable, and they need to get the situation underway by November 15th, which is, " everything's gone." The next position I'd like to say is about the seizure. So you said that 10 billion dollars is not included in the budget. Right, we didn't want to take the urge to come up with a special confiscation. Ten and a half percent. Ten and a half billion will be allocated to the planned budget and the rest will be sent to the country's budget. And you will be, as the Ukrainian Parliament, prioritizing the use of this resource, so we have left it to you to do so. What discount are you talking about? If it's about real, living money that's going to go into the government budget, there's no securities, there's going to be all the money in the government budget. So no discount, well, it's just nonsense, I'd like to ask you not to say it, but more probably to get into the subject. With regard to infrastructure and roads and energy efficiency. I want to emphasize that we have a very clear view of how to build roads, how to use these capabilities and resources, but combined with our partners in international financial organizations. This was ensured both transparency and quality control, and the efficiency of using this resource. The same thing we're talking about energy efficiency: 800 million and 3 billion dollars -- 3.8 billion dollars we're going to spend on energy efficiency. Energy efficiency is what's going to make us energy independent. This only means that 3.8 billion plus the State Regional Development Fund in all of its manifestations, I mean socioeconomics and so on, will also invest in energy efficiency. Plus the local budgets that will go under the co-financing conditions to finance this direction. Plus, the international financial organizations that have a lot of energy efficiency projects today are going to be the tens of billions that we're going to target for energy efficiency next year. I'd like to say something about agrarians, we'll provide funding for agrarians. Where do you get the 28 billion? You have to understand that those who grow the agricultural product, they export it, so they don't pay the VAT, and then they get it. Is that not understandable? That's enough. We have to stop the money-laundering scheme from the government budget, including VAT, and this is our job with you. To stop washing, on the one hand, and on the other hand to give those who need and determine the figure of 5.5 billion dollars that we're going to send to small farming, to those that we need to support and develop. This is a perfectly honest position with regard to those crops that work with their own hands on their own well-being and on the development of our country. Now I want to tell you what our priorities are. That's right, fellows, we need to encourage investment in the national economy, and to do that, we're going to set up investment co-ordinating offices this month. The point of entry from which we will interact with each major investor at the beginning. And you're going to see, we're going to drive away from them all the dirt that prevents you from working on investments, all the force that runs, those who give permission, those who start making random checks, we're going to automatically drive them away. But we're going to need support from the Ukrainian Parliament because we need to make deregulation at the level of law so that the services that are designed to protect the country's security, the country's economy, don't push it away because of pressure, excessive pressure on the real sector of the economy. This is the first position. Second position. We're going to make the National Committee for the Restoration of the Ukrainian Industry. I've been seeing metallurgy recently, and there are a lot of problems that we can solve both in government and in Parliament, and these problems. And solving these problems will bring about this economic growth that we're talking about today. Yeah, we can talk to other sectors of the national economy, and we'll see that we're professional. Our professional approach will make them competitive in the internal and external markets. And the next position is that we have to represent our products more qualitatively abroad. I believe that the issue of an expert, expert insurance agency is a matter of today. And I am pleased to support this initiative as Prime Minister of the country. And you and I will create an agency that will allow us to be effective in international markets and to ensure competitiveness. [[Congrats]] That's why I think economic growth is the top priority of our country's development next year. But you realize that economic growth, the right laws, the stimulation of the national producer, the development of the internal market, the creation of jobs has nothing to do with total populism. That's why I'm saying it's the time of responsible politics -- politics that will finally allow our country to break free from those bonds that have held them for decades and are less effective. You're going to tell everyone who's not effective. So I would like to urge you once again to work together, to work together in the glory of our Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! And thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the submission of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2017 (registration No. 5000) has been completed. In accordance with article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, Ukraine’s state budget for 2017 is considered to be accepted by the Supreme Council for further work. Thank you for an important frank and honest discussion. Thank you, Prime Minister, and the officials for participating in our meeting. It's nice that we got the budget in the time stipulated by the law, and I urge everyone to have a professional discussion of the budget. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we meet in the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work. Thank you. Good-bye!
