ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please come into the hall. Please prepare for registration. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies into the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Denisenko. Is there a denisenko in the hall? Is Danisenko in the hall? Yes, Andrew. Find him. Colleagues, distinguished colleagues, please register. [[10:05:31]] 319 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today, May 19 is the day of embroidery in Ukraine. This tradition was established in 2006 on the initiative of students at the National University of Chernobyl named Yuri Fedeković. The embroidery is our national pride, our testimony to our national identity. Wearing an embroidery under our military unit were Ukrainian retinal archers, soldiers of the Ukrainian People’s Army, the Ukrainian rebel army. They wore an embroidery, wearing a national Ukrainian symbol, a symbol of hope for victory and independence. Today, Ukraine’s modern-day independence fighters are widowing an embroidery under camouflage, under a vest on the eastern front, as are their predecessors centuries ago. The embroidery is a symbol of the indestructibleness of the Ukrainian people, the embroidery is a symbol that shows that the Ukrainian people are unique in diversity, practically illustrating the slogan of European co-operation. The fact that Ukrainian national deputies came to the Ukrainian Parliament today in embroidery is a tribute to the Ukrainian national symbol and our national tradition. Therefore, fellow MPs, the entire Ukrainian community, on behalf of the Supreme Council, welcome everyone to Embroidery Day, congratulations, colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have a very busy agenda today. I would ask all the national MPs to concentrate as much as possible and ask for fruitful work today, the more active we will be able to work effectively the more bills we will be able to adopt. My colleagues, yesterday we didn't, we have questions about two important drafts of regulations that are very simple, but which are essential for the population, these are the draft decrees for renaming the village. And I'd like to ask you for those two bills so that we can make a decision very quickly and efficiently. And I'm announcing a draft decree on the renaming of the village of Bihalzokhovka in the region of Czernigiv district (3708). And I'd like to ask you to support the proposal and consider it as a reduced procedure. Fedor Mikola Trohimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u2	Ripnetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u3	Ripkin district, I'm being corrected. Mr. Fedoruk, are you ready to report? Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. It's a technical question, but it needs a quick solution. And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please vote, summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:09:27]] For 135 Colleagues, I can see it's hard to get into the working atmosphere, all with cameras. I'm very much asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. And please find Denisenko, let him come to me. Andrew Denisenko. Are you guys ready? I'm asking you to support all factions. Self-help, technical question, support! That's a completely technical question. Once again, I'm asking you to vote on the proposal to consider Project 3708 under a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[10:10:26]] For 165 Decision taken. Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich is invited to the report. The request is as concise and understandable as possible. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u4	Honourable National Deputies, the Montenegrin District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an indication of the change of the village of Bihalzochovka to the village of Bihalzochovka of the Malolist Village Council of the Ripkin district of Chernigiv district to the village of Biholzochovka. The renaming of the village of Bihalzokhovka is initiated by its inhabitants because of the fact that in the drafting of official documents for the inhabitants of this inhabited area, birth certificates, passports of Ukrainian citizens. technical passports on buildings, state acts on earth, and so forth were used by the name Biholzochovka. In view of the situation that has arisen, residents of this populated area have been deprived of the possibility of entering civil and legal agreements, since the name of the population item in the documents does not correspond to the official accounting of the administrative units of the Chernigian region. According to the Minority Village Council, the name of the village was formed by merging the names of two villages: Bukhovci and Olgakuk. The question of the renaming of the village of Bihalzochovka was supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation, reviewed and approved by the Malolystska Rural District and Chernigiv District Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government supports the submission of the Montenegrin District Council to the village of Bihalchokhovka of the Malolystovska Rural Council of the Ripkinsk region to the village of Biholzochovka. We ask the national deputies to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, with all due respect to the need for procedure, is there a need to discuss, colleagues? There's no need, is there? Well, it's a name change. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. This question concerns the renaming of the village: at the request of the community, only one letter will change at the request of the district. And the village community awaits the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please maximize your mobility. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm betting on the vote. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. I think it's supposed to be a joint decision. I am voting on a draft decree to rename the village of Bihalchokhovka in the region of Czernigiv (Decision No. 3708) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote 3,708 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:14:02]] For 213 Colleagues, please come into the hall. We didn't make it, I see we didn't make it. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. I see. Please, everyone ready? Ivan! Are you ready, colleagues? Ivan Krulko! I'm proposing to go back to Procedural 3708. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Anyone who supports the return to the village name resolution, please vote. Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[10:15:16]] For 224 Turn on the factions. Dear colleagues, I'll put it again. And I'm asking you to adjust to active work. So I'm going to go back to the 3708 Project. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[10:15:58]] For 235 Decision taken. And now I'm betting. We're back. Once again, I'm putting regulation 3708 on the ground and, in general, on the committee's proposal. Please vote, colleagues, 3708 as a whole. Vote. [[10:16:27]] For 234 It's been decided. I think the community would like to thank our deputies. The next question is in fact technical, and this is the draft of the Order on the Placing of the City of Kalinovka in the Vinnitsk district to the category of cities of regional importance. And there's also a proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this motion for a reduced procedure, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:17:12]] For-183 182 is "for," and I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovic to report. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! The Winnitsk district council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the placement of the city of Kalinivka in the district of Vinnitsky district into the category of cities of regional importance. The city of Kalinivka is a city of regional importance, the administrative center of the Kalinov region, located on the north side of the Vinnitsk district, 26 km away from Vinnitska. Today, more than 19,000 people live in the city. Pursuant to the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities, the Kalinovska Mišska and the Drujeljovska Rural Councils have merged into the Kalinovska District Joint Territorial Society with the administrative centre in Kalinovka. The Committee believes that bringing the city of Kalinjka to the category of cities of regional importance will contribute to an increase in the local budget, significantly improve the investment climate, which in turn will contribute to the expansion of existing and new capacities in the food and processing industries. The question of the assignment of the city of Kalinovka in the district of Winnitsk to the category of cities of regional importance is accepted in accordance with legislation, discussed and approved by the Kalinov City and the Winnitsk District Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government supports the submission by the Winnick district council of the city of Kalinovka of the Vinnitsk district to the category of cities of regional importance. Please ask the National Deputies to support the relevant draft decree (registration number 4354) and to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u7	Thank you, Mikola Trochymovich. Colleagues — Is There a Need to Be Discussed? It doesn't, does it? No, no, no, no, no, no. I just want to say, colleagues, you see, I'm giving a discussion on any issue, but that means that we have less time to tax pensions, social standards, if we start on a technical issue to enter into a 20-minute discussion. So be. On this issue, I think there's general support. There's a need, isn't there? Anatoly Matvienko, there's a need, isn't there? Please sign two for, two for against, please. Dayday, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Elena Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the People's Front will support this decision and ask for its support. The point is that Kalinjka is a city of regional importance if we give such consent, and this is a united voluntary community. We need to support decentralization; we need to support communities that are voluntarily united. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Aleksei River, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u11	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Please give the word to your colleague Yvchenk, and I will say hello to all Winniech.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u12	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have to work more systematically. We clearly understand that when we give the city district status, that's how we increase the revenue for their budgets. Because financial decentralization is now talking about the following: District cities are zero PFCs, and cities with regional status are 60 percent of PDF plus part of income tax. So we're stripping the whole area. I'd like that. We've already granted permits to almost 20 cities of district importance. It would be systematic when we either give it to everyone or we ban and make systemic reform. Today, the Fatherland faction supports the decision to give Kalinović the status of the city of regional importance, but let's work systematically. Because we have questions about when communities unite, and the district government governs three rural councils. You see, that's not a systemic approach. We can keep asking lobbyist questions, but it's not systematic. Let's work more systematically. The Fatherland faction supports and requests that we constantly ask questions that will systematically introduce reform of the administrative system and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Papiev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, this bill, which is under consideration, needs a balanced and systematic approach. The thing is, we need to learn to work in a complex way. First, when we make a decision to give the city its status as a city of district importance, the city that is now part of a district should also be considered in the Codex Budget. Because then, under the protected articles of the budget, there is a need to add a grant of compensation to the area that has been exposed because there is a deficit in the local budget of district value. In addition, we have adopted laws that are now valid, which give some restrictions on cities that may claim to be of district importance that are not. And as I recall, there were 50,000 people there. There are no 50,000 inhabitants in this city. And there are other areas of Ukraine. I realize that the Vinnitsk region is now the center of making such serious decisions, but let's focus on other areas of Ukraine, and let's go and make a complex decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u15	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I think that when we make a decision, we should be aware of what we're making it for. I'd like to ask Mr. Mikola Fedoruk to explain what this status gives to Kalinović today, other than fashion? Unfortunately, we don't have the Administrative and Territorial Act to regulate clearly the administration. But by the old norm there really should be 50,000, today this city is 19. Well, I might want to be a city of district importance, but what this city will get when we now know that Kalinovka is a united community, and it has all the authority of the city of district importance. I'm more than just playing populism, I don't see any meaning or meaning. Support, non-support -- nothing changes. But I'm going to the profile committee that needs to keep the strategy and understanding of what we're doing with the administrator. If there's no such strategy, and the more the committee goes on, well, I don't know the necessary, non-necessary offer of local authorities, then we'll never have our state. So I think we should look at everything that's going on and have a clear strategy. Without this strategy, any decisions are incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u17	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. All the political factions actually support the proposal. And I'm voting on the draft Decision on the assignment of the city of Kalinovka in the district of Vinnitsky to the category of cities of regional importance (No. 4354). The committee's proposal: to accept as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Mrs. Olya, Mr. Oleg. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4,354 as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:26:51]] For-191 Dear colleagues, I'll put you back once, if you don't, yes, there won't be. Guys, I'm gonna put the prop again. One minute, one minute Fedoruk, one minute Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u18	Yeah. Replica, Anatholia’s answer. You're absolutely right, and we need to pass the Administration Act. With regard to Kalinjka and giving cities meaning. The district value is Kalinovka gets, you're right, all those preferences that have a regional significance because they're united. The position of the committee is that if a united territorial community is created with a city center of district importance, it is a bonus that when we consider Law 3638 on so-called "oil stain" to encourage further unification of communities around this centre, the city of regional importance. It is a bonus to support the moral support of this community that has taken such an initiative. But the Administration Act must be adopted, and this, I think, is something that the committee and the Minregonbud need to work more intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put you back once again. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to consideration 4354, please vote. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the vote of 4354, please vote. Please vote. [[10:28:48]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Then let's support the committee for the first time again. Will you support me? So I now make a proposal, according to the Rules, to refer to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Decree 4354. Let's support this proposal: 4354 to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[10:29:27]] For 206 Another suggestion I make is to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Do you support or not? Who supports the proposal to direct the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Decree 4354, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:30:06]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we have a good tradition on Thursday to ask questions about decommunization so that every Thursday we can take a step in that direction. I want to remind you that under our law, we had to complete the decommunization process by February 18th. We have taken that time forever, and it is vital that we make up for our right and our right to do so. And that's why I'm putting one of the documents that's important today, after decommunization, is a draft decision to rename the city of Dnipropetrovska Dnipropetrovska District. And there's a suggestion that we look at it in a simplified way. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:31:19]] For 190 Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denisenko Andrija Sergiyovich. Please turn on the microphone, Andri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u20	Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, the name of the city of Dnipropetrovsk, as required by the current legislation on decommunization, awaits the hundreds of thousands of inhabitants of this city, a million deiprians waiting for you today. I'm very pleased to see this room in embroidery today, and although my embroidery remains in Dnipropetrovsk today, I ask your support, I ask your support, dear friends. These red and black colors that are at the heart of each of us today should motivate us to press the pros button. In fact, the national referendum in Dniper has already taken place, and the name of this city is actually Dnipro, as it is called throughout the country. And today we just have to legalize what actually happened by direct national will, and finally close, put a dot in the history of naming our cities by the names of the organizers of the famine. I would like to remind you that Mr. Petrovsky, whose name in the shame of our Ukrainian people, is still in the name of this million city condemned by the court, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, as the organizer of the famine of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. And today we are making a historic step towards the establishment of justice, and the decommunization of our Ukrainian land. Please support everyone, including their friends from the Radical Party, please insert ballot cards and vote for Dnipro, in the name of this million-dollar Ukrainian city.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u21	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the State Building Subcommittee, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee discussed at its meeting on February 15, the Order to Rename the City of Dnipropetrovska in the Dnipropetrovsk Region (3864). At a meeting of the Committee of Experts on Ukrainian National Memory The National Memory Institute reported that the name of the city of Dnipropetrovsk used the name Gregory Petrovsky — the person involved in the October 1917 coup, the establishment of Soviet power, the persecution of participants in the struggle for Ukraine’s independence in the 20th century, the organization Holodomor 1932-1933 in Ukraine, and the management of the higher authorities and the administration of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union. In view of the above, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory recommended that the committee rename the city of Dnipropetrovsk to Dnipro. In addition, the draft Order on the Conservation of the Designation of the City of Dnipropetrovsk of Dnipropetrovsk of the Dnipropetrovsk Region on the Change of Etymology of the Designation of the City of Dnipropetrovsk on the Name of the River Dnipro in honor of the Holy Apostle Peter (Registration No. 4001), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Wilkull. After discussing the issue, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council that the city of Dnipropetrovsk of the Dnipropetrovsk Region be renamed Dnipro to the city of Dnipro, on the basis and as a whole of the draft decree, registration number 3864, introduced by the national deputy of Ukraine, Denisenk. Accordingly, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft decision No. 4001, introduced by the People’s Deputy Villuck, after the first reading of the draft decision, to be rejected. In the event of the adoption of the project under registration number 3864 as a basis, and in general, I propose that the committee prepare it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the big question is, there's so much noise in the room that the reporter just can't hear. This is a question of our national dignity, of the rebirth of Ukraine, and it has to be respect for both the issue under consideration and the subject that we are talking about today. I'm asking my colleagues to record a discussion of this question: two for, two against, please. The word is "self-help" for Zubak Ljubomir Lvivitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, this is one of the largest cities in Ukraine that is renamed as part of decommunization. So the Self-Help faction will definitely support this issue. I urge everyone to send a catastrophe to the history dumpster of the Ukrainian people of Petrovsky, and together to give a really popular name for "Dnipro," and to support the inhabitants of this respected city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Mikhailo Humil, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, today we must make the right, the right, the right decision for my hometown. And I'm asking for your support. I want to draw your attention now to who's against it. Look at the right side of me, the Supreme Council. It's embroidery day. The occupying block is here. No person from the occupying block came in the embroidery! Finally, we have to decide on the first thing that happens to the city of Dnipropetrovska. Help this, the people of this city deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Martovic from the Opposition Block, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u29	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u30	Respectable people of Ukraine and respected colleagues! The author of the bill, Mr. Denisenko, from Ucropa, is suddenly lying. This is no national loathsomeness, it is a national injustice and it is a national disgrace. 90 per cent of the inhabitants of Dnepropetrovska against the name of the city. This is confirmed by all sociological surveys. We've collected over 300,000 signatures. We have proposed a normal option that does not conflict with the Decommunization Act. It is to rename the city of Dnepropetrovsk to the city of Dnepropetrovsk, but it is already in honour of the river Dnieper and of Saint Peter. The ideal option would certainly be to hold a local referendum. I passed this bill a year ago. But the ruling power, the ruling majority, is blocking the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's change the tomology and rename Dnepropetrovsk to Dnepropetrovsk. And let's not make fun of people. The highest public authority, the Supreme Council, cannot fully discredit itself in front of millions of Dnepropetrovska Dnepropetrovsk. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are entering an absolute abyss. Dear colleagues, this cannot be done. Those who want a real real unification of Ukraine, and who do not want to speculate on language issues, on names, on issues of nationality there, should not do so in any way. Indeed, today we have a very large party of war in Parliament, a party of radicals. But let's, in the end, stop destroying Ukraine, let's unite our country. And do not mock the millionth city of Dnepropetrovsk and its million inhabitants. Thank you. I hope you make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u31	Paul Kishkar of Peter Dustenka Block is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Krivenko Victor, National Movement of Ukraine. There is no sound argument to preserve the name Petrovsky, the catath of the Ukrainian people, for our city. At the age of 16, I came to this city, which is now called Dnipropetrovsk, and will be Dniprom. He lives in a dorm. Working. And I know it's a patriotic city. People are being manipulated, people are being manipulated in the context that they're going to be passports to change, that there's some scary budget spending. It's all a lie. The next manipulation, which I think is a call for anti-State action, is proposals for a referendum. People are being manipulated again. There's no legislation on local referendums, there's no position on what this is standardized, and we understand that there is war and opposition on the streets. War on memories, on ambitions, on disappointments. That's the same question. and I call on the Head of the Supreme Council and the House in the next vote to make an amendment to the name of Dniprojrzinski in Kamyansk. The two categories of the Ukrainian people, Djrjinsky and Petrovsky, have no right to be mentioned anywhere. They're in hell to burn, not to mention in our passports and in our documents, in our cities. I thank all colleagues who have voted in favour of this, without exaggeration, for a historic decision. Also, thanks separately to the Radical Party for agreeing to vote for it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u34	Ivan Krulko, Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u35	Ivan Krulko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I have great respect for all the inhabitants of the famous city of Dniper. And I think Dnipropetrovsk today should get the Ukrainian name Dnipro. Who is Petrovsky? This is a person who was one of the organizers of the Holodomor, the genocide of the Ukrainian people in the 32nd to 33rd years, who, according to the Kyiv Court of Appeal, was dealing with a case involving the Holodomor, confessed to the 8 criminals who organized the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Tell us how the Ukrainian State can tolerate that the name of this man is a million - year - old city, a beautiful, beautiful city in the center of Ukraine. So I think we need to make this decision. The "Fatherland" faction will vote and so they always called Dnipro and Dniprom it will be called forever. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, there will be a final speech, and then there will be a vote. I very much ask all my colleagues to come into the hall, because I think this vote will be very significant and will be appreciated by your voters and those citizens who have delegated us to Parliament. So I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Now we have a play from the Radical Party: Andrew Lozový. And I also want to go to the Radical Party and say that they're ready to vote on this issue. And I beg you, Andrew Lozov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u37	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "Don't laugh, foreign people! The Church of Homeland It's gonna fall apart. And under it. Ukraine will rise. And he will spread out the darkness of captivity, The world of truth will shine, And they'll pray on their own Slavery Children!... Unfortunately, 300 years of imperial occupation, 70 years of Soviet occupation, they're unfortunately many people. Many people are still sitting in their heads. And when I hear that the public opinion is divided, that maybe not in time, but let us name Dnipropetrovsk, not in honor of Petrovsky, the cat of the Ukrainian people, but in honor of the apostle Peter or Peter Dorosenk, or Peter Mogila, this is all bullshit. Because I'll give you an example: the city's head, Kharkiv Gennady Kernes, names Felix Jerzynsky's street as the street of Polish actor Vladislav Jerzynski. It's a substitution of concepts. We finally have to put a dot. Dnipropetrovsk – our symbol, our Siceslav – is a symbol of the victory of the compatriot Ukraine over "Russian peace", must wear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u38	Ten seconds, ten seconds, turn it on, Andrew's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u39	The Ukrainian city of Dnipropetrovsk, Dniprolenski, Dniprostalinski can never be called in Ukraine. Ukrainian cities must bear Ukrainian names. I personally like the name Siceslav very much, but it was the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u40	I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, prepare for a decision. Dear colleagues, Dnipro has become one of the centers of our opposition to the Russian occupation of the Russian Empire. And our task is to honor both the community and the history of this Ukrainian city. Dear colleagues, there will be no city on the map of Ukraine called the former executioners and those who killed our grandparents. And our duty is to complete the decommunization. We make one of the most important decisions in principle. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Order to rename the city of Dnipropetrovsk, Dnipropetrovsk district, number 3864, on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[10:46:09]] For 247 It's been decided. Welcome to Dniper. Congratulations to all of us on an important step. Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, there is another short bill on decommunization. It's too much. Yes, please turn on the factions while we're preparing. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 65, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 19, "Radical Party" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 17, "Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 9. Dear colleagues, there is decree 4691. Here, too, are the villages and towns in which there is full harmony with the community. I would like to stress: full agreement with the local communities. And I'm going to ask you to consider this regulation, this is 4691, with a reduced procedure. And I ask you to support this proposal by reviewing the reduced procedure. Please vote for decommunization. [[10:47:28]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! To carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reconcile issues concerning the renaming of individual population items, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting yesterday, May 18, 16th, further considered the proposals of individual bodies of local self-government and the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory on the renaming of certain localities in relation to the need to bring their names into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Conviction of the Communist and National Social, Nazi and Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine, and to prohibit the promotion of their activities, their symbolism, excuse me. In general, the committee considered 12 proposals for the renaming of villages and villages, such as Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovogradsk, Lugansk, Odessk, Poltavsk, Kharkivsk, Herson and Chernigiv. The authorities of local self - government and the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory have reached an agreed, stressed, agreed position on the renaming of these locations and their names in line with the requirements of the law. Having fully considered the proposals made by the local government authorities and the recommendation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the committee agreed to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a basis and as a whole the draft Order on the Renaming of Some Populations to Registration No. 4691. In the event of a decision on the basis of the proposed draft, and in general, the stated settlements should be excluded from the decision (registration number 4085).
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u42	My dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is a population of points that are completely compatible with the local communities. Full of local communities. Can we support this or should we discuss it? Can we support this one? We can't support decommunization, can we? We can't. We can't support this decision, can we? Colleagues, I'll bet. Talk to you. Please, okay! Turn two on for, two on against. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u43	The People's Front faction will support this bill. And again, I'm paying attention to our national MPs. It is a great request, Mr. Chairman, that the national MPs do not leave the hall, but vote on some very important bills. And I would like to refer once again to the discipline of our national deputies. Nevertheless, honourable Members, we are working for two days productively, Tuesday and Thursday, so let's work to the end today and adopt some important bills for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Dove, Petra Dustenka's Block. Yvchenko is from Fatherland. Barna. The pigeon gives Barney the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u45	Dear friends, we must finally remove ourselves from our memory, forget this disgrace that has been associated with the totalitarian Soviet regime and root out of our national roots all things related to Stalinism, Leninism, Sovietism, Communism. And to colleagues from the Opposition Block who were collecting signatures for the preservation of the city of Dnipropetrovska, I would like to advise them to put those signatures where their leader had the entire Ukrainian people when they were in power, and as the last jackal was fleeing from Ukraine, stealing money. Therefore, I would like to urge everyone to promote laws related to decommunization and to restore our consciousness to our national dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko. He's handing it over to Krulkov. I told you, it's not that hard to get a microphone and pass it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u47	Please pass the word to your colleague, Ivan Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u48	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, may I have your attention for a moment? Today is embroidery day, today really that day of patriotism, when we have to clear Ukraine of Communist, Soviet symbols that destroy Ukrainian reality. So I would like to make an offer: to this decree, which we are now considering, to bring the city of Dniprojrjinsk, to be renamed the city of Kamyansk. Let's do what Ukraine needs today -- let's get rid of all the cataclysms of the Ukrainian people. And I ask you, Mr. Head, after the speeches, give the floor for one minute to further explain to Vladimir Vittarovich, director of the Institute of National Memory, who will explain why it is important that the city of Dniprodjnski should be renamed Kamyansk today, on this day. And I ask the hall to focus and mobilize on making these important historical decisions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I have been addressed. I'll give you an answer. After this determination, there will be a determination where the Dniprodj yinsky is. We're the only ones with voices. You mobilize as much as you can, mobilize. After that will be the Decision with Dniprodijnski. Now I'm giving the word "self-help" to the dentist. Please turn on the microphone. A tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, this decision was considered yesterday by our committee and unanimously supported it. And I'll draw your attention to the fact that all the naming of these population points has been agreed upon by the communities, and that's very important because maybe we're not moving that fast, but we're moving that fast, and we're moving that fast, and we're going to have fewer questions when we make those decisions. Similarly, he wanted to inform everyone that the matter of the Institute of National Memory had been resolved in the same way on the committee yesterday, so that as soon as possible it would be possible to generalize all the population points on which there were still questions and to bring them to the committee meeting in order to complete the process of decommunization as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress that the next decision will be with Dniprostinsky. Now we have a discussion. And I, my dear colleagues, ask you one thing: Mobilization. Because you're supposed to be talking not to me, but to make sure that the maximum MPs are in the room. And all we can do is vote. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Nameing Some Human Settlements, 4691, on the basis of and in general. Who supports the proposal. A radical party! I've shown support, colleagues. Oleg, I've shown support for decommunization. Please, it'll be right, it'll be stately. Thank you, thank you, boys, thank you, brothers. Decommunization. I'm voting on a draft Order to rename some of the population points (4691) as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. They're not ready yet. Are you ready, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote! On the ground in general, colleagues, we vote. [[10:56:28]] For 253 Decision taken. Colleagues, as promised, taking into account the demands of the national MPs, the next draft of Decree 4085, where the first item is the Dniprodijnskik. Colleagues, I ask you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:57:04]] For the 220. Thank you. Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! To carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council to reconcile issues relating to the renaming of individual population items, the Committee considered 299 proposals from the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance on the renaming of locations, such as Winnicki, Volinski, Dnipropetrovski, Donecki, Žitomirski, Zaporziski, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Luganski, Lvivski, Mikolayivski, Odesk, Poltawski, Ravenski, Sumski, Kharkivski, Hersonski, Hmelnicki, Cherkaske and Chernigivski. Among the above suggestions for the recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory are proposed to rename 9 districts, 6 cities, 284 villages, and villages. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issues, taking into account the recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the committee adopted the conclusion — recommending the Supreme Council to rename them. adopt, as a whole and a draft Order on the Rename of Individual Populations and Areas (Registration No. 4085, completed). In the event of the adoption of draft Decree No. 4085 as a basis, and in general, we propose that the committee prepare them for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, their technical and legal work, excluding those populated items that have been renamed by the draft Decree-Law No. 4691.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few deputies have just left the hall. I'm asking you to return to the hall. This is the vote that will be followed by the whole of Ukraine. I ask you to return to the hall, prepare for the vote and ask the factions to call to the hall. We've actually discussed this issue all of our previous discussions. We can vote. I very much ask, once, friends, brothers, to prepare for the vote, Oleg Valeriyovich. I ask you very much to invite the deputies who have just left the hall to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Everyone, please step into the hall and prepare for the vote. Draft Decree 4085, on the basis of the committee's proposal, and in general, there is Dniprožinsk, the first point of replacement for Kamyansk, I report, to Kamyansk. I'm asking all the patriots what they are. Which is in the room to vote 4,085 as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, we vote! Patriots, we vote! Vote! [[11:00:14]] For 249 Decision taken. Welcome to all the cities! Welcome to the community of the city of Kam’nsk! We have an MP from Dniprodjyńska – Krivenko. Let's give him a word. Dear colleagues, these are important decisions, these are overwhelming decisions. Comrade Vladimir, next Thursday we will continue and complete the decommunization in Ukraine. Hello again. Glory to Ukraine! One minute, Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, Krivenko Victor, People's Movement. A great holiday for me. I was born in Dniprodijnsk. Born in Kamyansk, he always called it, and in all his posts on Facebook he wrote: “Camyan and Dniprodijnski. ” Thank you very much. We put away a huge topic for manipulations, for speculation, which was constantly played by anti-Ukrainian forces and manipulative forces, who were trying to make cheap capital in this regard: they were cheating people, telling people that there was going to be costs, telling them that somehow it was very difficult for the budget, that it would be people standing in line -- all lies. I welcome the restoration of our hometown, its name, the industrial center. Thank you, Veteran Volodymyr, thank you to the Institute of National Memory, thank you to all the deputies who have united. Glory to Ukraine! Glory be to Kamyanski!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u55	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Colleagues, we now have an important chapter on "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." But I have, traditionally, an application for a break from two factions -- the Radical Party and Self-Help -- but today they're willing to just replace it with statements from the rostrum. And I'm asking you to turn on Oleg Lachak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm addressing the people's deputies, I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. The Radical Party faction continues to block the parliamentary rostrum, requiring the establishment in Parliament of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate offshore corruption crimes committed by the highest officials of the state. Yesterday Ukrainian journalists Dmitry Gnap, Alona Babinchuk, published a series of materials to investigate offshore corruption at the hands of the President of Ukraine. As you remember, when it was first published about offshore companies, he said, "nothing terrible, because they registered a blind trust just to sell its company and there was no money or bills in that blind trust." It turns out that the President of Ukraine lied to the Ukrainian society because the material published by journalists shows that on March 25, 2016, I ask you to pay attention to the date, in March of this year, the President of Ukraine counted 4 million euros to buy another offshore washbasin abroad. Millions of euros The President did not list to create places for Ukrainians, not to open his own factory in Mariupola, Montenegro, Poltava, or Kharkiv. 4 million euros for offshore laundering to hide taxes there, so as not to pay to the state budget. I'm being corrected by Sergey Lechchenko, who's a journalist named Anna Babinec. Anna Babinec, investigator along with Dmitr Gnap, who investigated the corruption of the President and his environment, the highest officials. We demand because the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, because the Attorney General's Office, to which we spend billions of dollars in the budget, refuses to investigate the corruption of senior officials of the state, the President of Ukraine, the heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the business environment of the President of Ukraine, we demand that the Ukrainian Parliament investigate this corruption, create an investigative commission to answer questions about how to stop the corruption of senior government officials of Ukraine, how to stop the flow of capital from Ukraine abroad, how to force them to pay taxes? One of the well - known people said that it is necessary to have no conscience to rob people. This is about our officials, who are the country that's fighting, who's defending themselves, they're robbing it godlessly, like glue, and Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we now have a package of laws to include in the agenda of the day session. Among them are the excessive laws necessary for filtering the IMF, they didn't pass on Tuesday, they didn't get most. Come on, who's got a warning? Let's exchange thoughts on factions so that we can accept them. Please, Peter Dustock's Block, Igor Green. Who is warned about these bills? Please, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u58	Good afternoon! I welcome once again all the Ukrainians with the festival and I would like to call on those MPs who have apparently been badly educated in school or who have not fully understood the Asian economy. I have come to the conclusion today that when white people speak black and when they don't even deal with the investigation of journalists and the verdicts are passed, in fact, the purpose of the so-called interim commission of inquiry is not to understand the situation. I don't think you're going to need more than five minutes to figure out that there wasn't a single item abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u59	Thank you. "Front," Victoria Sumar, please, on those bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I'd like to respond to a statement by the Environment, which was about the renaming of Dniper now. You know, this is where you were called "disgusting" completely fair and very few people heard what you were saying. You were talking about a party of war, we could call it, this party of war. You were talking about who brought death to the Ukrainian land and who continued to do so. If you defend the interests of the country that brought it. brought death here, in Ukraine, and which kills our people, if you stand up for these interests, not for the interests of your own state, then, unfortunately, it will be very difficult to fight war and build an independent Ukraine. And with regard to the laws of the International Monetary Fund, I urge all national deputies today to remember that there is a political position, there is a political struggle, but there is Ukraine. And today we must live up to our obligations and put the interests of our State and of our land first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u61	Thank you very much. Guys, I just want to remind you. I asked that we exchange the bills that we are about to have. Many of them are essential to the IMF, and this is also our commitment. By the way, I'm asking the MPs to concentrate as much as possible in the hall, and the factions to tell them about the warnings they have on those bills. Please, Tetjana Ostrikak, as I understand correctly, Self-help, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For bills that are included in the agenda or that are not included in the memorandum to the International Monetary Fund. The Self-Help faction has some warnings, particularly with regard to Bill 4510, which provides for amendments to the Law on Central Executive Authorities. What does this bill foresee? That the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to increase by its decision the number of deputy directors of the central executive branch. The question is, What is the purpose of this? Why is it that the head of the fiscal service has five deputies if he and his two deputies are unable to carry out their tasks effectively and administer their taxes as needed? The next bill (4515) to amend the Customs Code on Optimization of Territorial Authorities of the State Fiscal Service. It's a very nice name, and it really fits the purposes of what the IMF has declared in the memorandum. We're reading the bill, and what do we see? There's no optimisation there. There is a violation of the rights of payers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u63	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u64	violations of the rights of external economic operators, there is elimination of customs posts, there are delays in payment and administration of import VAT, there is a breach of Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement. So from that point on, the Self-Help faction cannot and will not support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u65	Thank you. I'm just reminding you, it's just getting into the agenda. Only. Even at that. Okay! Alona Shkrum, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u66	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Unfortunately, colleagues, we cannot strongly support the inclusion in the agenda as a minimum of those laws that already conflict with our international obligations and that contradict those reforms that we have instituted. Law 4510, which Mrs. Ostrov rightly stated, had nothing to do with the institutional capacity and capacity of the state fiscal service. It contradicts our international commitment under a treaty to build a state where we cannot change and increase the number of substitutes without functional analysis, without a strategy for reform of government and without other things. USAID, for example, noted. USAID recommendations provide for a reduction in the state of the DFS, not an increase in the number of substitutes. In addition, it's not just about the DFS, it's about the fact that increasing the number of substitutes to the Cabinet's decision can be in any central executive body. Colleagues, this is, as a minimum, contrary to the Constitution, because such decisions cannot be determined by the Cabinet but must be determined by the laws of Ukraine. It's written in the Constitution, Also, colleagues, I ask you not to include in the agenda in connection with what we have even spoken to the head of the committee on this subject, Law 4419, is a change to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u67	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u68	This is important, colleagues, these are changes to the Faction Secretariat Rules. Indeed, changes to the Rules will not solve this problem. We've already prepared changes to the State Service Act, where the Secretariat and factions are not government officials, but the patron service, that's normal, and that'll be okay, I hope, us. Let us not make unnecessary laws that complicate procedures, but do joint agreed projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u69	Who else is it from the factions? Please, Victor Bondar, Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's Rebirth Party will not now vote in favour of these bills for their inclusion in the agenda. We, with regard to IMF bills, require a clear understanding of where IMF funds will go this year, for which targeted programmes. We're demanding a comprehensive budget change for this year in order to fully finance the population subsidy for the LHC and so on. We require a clearer economic agenda. It is not clear to us why we have to put and vote on the demands of the IMF to privatize more than 300 businesses in Ukraine today. What are the privatization mechanisms? What's the privatisation procedure? Why is it burning to privatize especially the agri-industrial complex that is the most profitable today? For us, it is not clear what the IMF has put before Ukraine in order to give us another tranche. As drug addicts, we are pursuing this money, no matter what the consequences for the population are: raising tariffs and so on. We won't vote until we understand the IMF requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. Respectable citizens, respected colleagues. I would like to describe this agenda, which is under consideration today, with the exception of legislation on the abolition of taxation of pensions, such as those that are not related to anything or to any reforms. I do not know what instructions the International Monetary Fund gives, but these instructions are clearly not for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. It should be noted that the faction of the Opposition Block will not support the bills relating to the expansion of deputy ministers. The opposition bloc will not support the Ukrainian people's plundering bill on privatization. Many businesses, which are profitable, will now be redeemed by the current authorities from the mallet at a cost. And I would like to ask you not to end the issue of pension taxation, but let us consider it now, because it concerns 300-400 thousand pensioners who receive a poverty pension still have a duty to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u73	Thank you, colleagues. Exchanged thoughts. Your faction has already been made, and all the factions of a colleague have already come out. We're moving to a day-to-day vote. Colleagues, we finally have to put this to a vote. Your decision will be how to vote. And I'm betting, I'm asking for maximum mobilization, especially government mobilization. (That's quite different. ) I'll put it to a vote. It's a radical. Who? The Radical Party gives Leschenko the word. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u74	Thank you. I was actually mentioned by my colleague, Oleg Lazko, and that's why it's like a lineup. What's going on in us? I'm going to say that two months ago, these Panama papers were published. And yesterday there were parliamentary hearings in this room to fight corruption. They were sitting here, full room of activists, investigative journalists, real stars, tracking program, diagrams, money program. And none of the deputies were there, just our anti-corruption committee. There was Sitnik, talking. Why has our Parliament not yet responded to this challenge, which is now around the world? Why in France, in Britain, ministers, prime ministers, the presidents react, they say, "Thank you for exposing these offshore schemes." Why hasn't this interim commission of inquiry been set up in the Supreme Council to give a political assessment of corruption that has flourished in Ukraine since the 1990s, since Lazarenko, when the first offshore accounts went into Ukrainian politics. And then this spiral of corruption has explained our entire policy for 20 years. Why did we, when there was a referendum, say that we would set up a commission in Holland, promise, say, "Don't make conclusions?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u75	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u76	When there was a referendum in Holland, we promised: "Don't vote against Ukraine. We'll create a TSC, we'll work it out in Parliament." Two months, nothing's been done, the TSC isn't created. We can't answer the questions at all, but there's not only Prashenko or Connonenko, there's Truhanov, there's searches that applied to EESU corporations, there's schemes that applied to other businesses, there's dozens, there's hundreds of names. Why does the Ukrainian Parliament ignore this issue? Mr. Head, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u77	Thank you. I'm waiting for the paperwork. I'll answer you. Under the law, each faction must present its own representative, and I have a fixed term. And, Mr. Sergey, I'm only going to put it in the room right now and pass it on to the registration. Thank you. So let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities. 4510. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. 4510. Please vote. [[11:17:16]] For-143 The decision is not made. Next. I am proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Optimization of Territorial Authorities of the State Fiscal Service (4515). Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please vote. [[11:17:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized on Certain Objects of SG and Transport. 4536 and 4536-1. Who supports the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:18:31]] For-147 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 4419). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:18:59]] For-164 Next. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of the Change Procedure (No. 4256). Who supports the proposal. Please vote. Please, 4256. [[11:19:30]] For-164 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (4262). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please. [[11:20:02]] For 185 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition on Improving Control Procedures for Concentration of Hosts (4287). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:20:31]] For 190 The decision is not made. Colleagues, we're just putting the day session in order. I don't want to push you into the hall, just remind you of that. Next. 4660. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (4660). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please vote 4660. [[11:21:10]] For 177 Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening road safety control and liability for road traffic violations (4661). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:21:43]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the financing of expenditure on local self-government of villages, villages, cities of regional importance) (4208). Those who support the inclusion of the day session, please vote 4208. [[11:22:14]] For 196 And the last of this package is a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Dear colleagues, here I'm going to address you in particular: I'm asking for this bill to support, it's in the language, as you know, of the quotas of songs in the state language in music radio programmes and radio broadcasts. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, yesterday the committee supported the proposal, and this proposal is being made today to bring about the order of the day’s session only. 3822 is about quotas for Ukrainian songs and protection of national language in Ukraine. 3822. Who supports the inclusion of the day session, I ask you to vote. Colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:23:22]] For 203 My colleagues, I see they're not here yet, and I'll put them back, put them back. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. I would like to stress once again that I propose the inclusion of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Broadcasting Act (for parts of the songs in the national language in the radio and radio programmes). It is the initiative of Viacheslav Kirilenka, who was supported by the committee yesterday, for the support of a large number of the public and. our songs of authority performers, and this is a sign of vote for our Parliament. I'm asking you to take your jobs. And, colleagues, I'm once again putting up a motion for a vote. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the 3822 session, please vote, 3822 votes. [[11:25:00]] For 231 Dear colleagues, we have included it in the agenda, if there are no objections to yours, we have the right to consider it after lunch. Let’s consult on a break, colleagues, and determine how much we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u78	[[From the Hall]] On Embroidery Day, it is a symbolic adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u79	On Embroidery Day, we accept important bills. Dear colleagues, we have now passed this chapter of our Rules and we are moving on to the next chapter, this is a matter of European integration. There are a number of bills that need our discussion and need our decision. Today, except that Embroidery Day, yet Eurointegration Day, Europe Day in Ukraine would be right and symbolic if we could make the decisions that we need at this stage. We have both a minister and a Deputy Prime Minister, Ivanna Klimpush, and a Minister of Ecology, Ostap Semerak. And the first question in this chapter is question 2009a: the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act. It's a bill that's been co-operated with the committee. This is actually a rereading of the first reading. And I'm asking you, I'm asking you to consider a reduced procedure. 2009a is necessary for European integration, by a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, summary procedure. [[11:26:55]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostak Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on Environmental Impact Assessment (2009a) is being submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration by our Committee, the Committee on Environmental Policy. The purpose of the bill is to establish legal and organizational principles for environmental impact assessment and to ensure that Ukraine fulfils its obligations under international agreements. Ukraine's failure to comply with a series of obligations under the conventions, namely the Aarhus Convention and the Espoo Convention, has already become the subject of consideration and adoption by the councils of the parties to decisions on the recognition of Ukraine as one whose legislation is not in conformity with the provisions of the Aarhus Convention. One reason for such decisions is the lack of a proper environmental impact assessment procedure, which would, inter alia, enable the public to participate in environmentally meaningful decisions. The adoption of the law is also provided for by the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which would ensure that the provisions of European directives are implemented in national legislation. The bill is complementary to the comments and proposals of the National Deputies, the central executive authorities, such as the National Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of the NAC "Energot", as well as those made during its consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 26 November. And there were so many constructive suggestions and criticisms. In the drafting of the bill, terminology, a well - defined list of activities and objects included in the bill’s spheres was improved, public information and public discussion, content, environmental impact assessment. At its meeting on February 17, the Committee considered the draft bill that had been finalized for the first time and recommended that the Supreme Council take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the committee has done a very big job of making this bill perfectly prepared for consideration today in the agenda. And now we're giving a word for the co-report to the environmental minister of Ostap Semierak, and then to the professional vice-premier of European, Euro-Atlantic integration of Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u82	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues. In fact, this law is worked out, and the ministry represents the government's position that we ask it to adopt it in the first reading. And this bill is not only important because today is Europe's Day, and it is aimed at fulfilling our obligations under the Association Agreement and, accordingly, under the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. Our international partners agree with this law. I know that the Committee on European Integration has been very successful in working with the Committee on Profiles, and over 60 amendments have been made. I appeal to you when voting on this bill to consider that it is necessary not only to fulfill our international obligations but, above all, that it is necessary for a satisfactory environment. And yesterday, when we met with the environmental public of Ukraine, we talked a lot about this bill, and the environmental public asked me to hand over to the MPs, to the members of parliament to support this law in the first reading, it would be the right signal from the parliament to the environmentalists who put their lives into saving the environment in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u84	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! We will be extremely grateful if we share this opportunity with you today to start such a systemic problem, perhaps where there is a gruesome effort to implement our obligations in accordance with the European Union directives we have adopted in the Association Agreement, to introduce them into our legislation. And I would like to ask you, with the support of these bills, in particular this particular environmental assessment bill, to take into account that all these changes are primarily what we need. It's this bill that we have to make sure that we can understand that when we start some new infrastructure projects, new economic projects, how this will change the lives of people around us, how this will affect the community. And we're going to have a full active community involved in making it work with business, in conjunction with private partners, the decision is reasoned and clear for each member of the community. I hope you understand, I hope for your support. And I hope that the other few laws that we are, the bills that we have identified as important to European integration for today, you will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the 2009 Bill. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, people's MP Urbansky, Peter Prashenko's Block. Turn on the microphone, please. Comrade Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u86	I give the word to Mary Ion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u87	Maria Ionova, please. Mrs. Maria, your microphone's not on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u88	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I would like to take this opportunity to say that our Committee on European Integration has considered this bill. We really are. It was such a systematic and collaborative work with the government, and together with public organizations and we recognized it as one that does not conflict with European Union law and Ukraine’s obligations. And, of course, we have to fulfil our obligation with respect to the Association Agreement, and this is Appendix 30 to the Association Agreement. But first of all, I want to say and support the previous speakers from the respectable government, which is really what this is. This bill is a "splitting". And this provides preventive measures for the damage that has already been done to our environment, the damage has been done, and so we need to correct and, in fact, we will also be provided with financial, macro-financial assistance under these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u89	Thank you. Please give the floor to your colleague Markevich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u90	Self-help supports the environmental impact assessment bill, and it's not just an environmental issue, it's a business aid, because it introduces clear and transparent procedures for investors to make impact assessments. And that's a very good sign for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, John Krulko of "The Fatherland" gives the word to Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Rybczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u93	Excuse me, Alexia Rybchina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u94	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction will support this bill and all the laws related to environmental protection. This is another principle of the functioning of the state, when the state cares not only about economic development but also about environmental development, about the development of a better standard of living. The general function of the state is to raise people's living standards, raise their age center. So that's what the state should care about, I hope the government will also take care of it. This bill is very important because it's a European principle of the attitude of the economy, energy and the environment, and that's what we should go to. We need to prioritize the decapling of economic growth, that is, the decoupling of economic growth by using fossil fuels and environmental pollution. We need to develop low-carbon energy, we need to develop our alternative sources of energy, which unfortunately is not happening right now. And a very important direction is energy conservation, not just raising tariffs, not allowing people to consume less. And in this bill, basic things: public consultation, public information, which should be, but I know there's a very strong lobby that doesn't want certain kinds of industry not to be subject to the taxation of this bill. The Fatherland faction insists on voting for the first reading, and we will be very careful to keep an eye on the committee. As co-author of the first bill, which was then worked on by the committee, I will also file my papers and we will support the development of our Green Parenthood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u95	Thank you. I understand that everyone who wants to discuss this bill has made a statement. Dear colleagues, in just a minute we're going to vote. Mr. Ribak, representative of the Committee on Ecology, also asks for the floor. Before I give him my word, I want to make another announcement for all those deputies who are not currently in the session room, asking to come into the session room. We are voting on an extremely important bill, which is part of our commitment to implement the Association Agreement. Because it concerns implementation into national legislation of the provisions of Directive 2003/4/EC and 2011/92/EC. I want to remind you that we had a very serious discussion here about the debate on this bill. And personally, as one of the co-authors to thank the environmental committee, the people who are currently managing this committee, the previous chairman, Mikola Tomenka, Oksani Prodan, who has essentially led the working group and has been able to find this compromise in finalizing the bill between environmental issues and the requirements of the national producer in order for this bill to respond comprehensively to all the questions and needs of business and ecology. I'm asking all my colleagues to take their jobs now so that we can mobilize and vote. And please, Mr. Rybak, your closing statement, and we will proceed to the vote. No one's coming out of the room. You can only go out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. As one of the co-authors, I want to address members of the Radical Party who are not going to vote for this bill. And I want to talk to a famous economist named Guy McPherson, who said, "If you really think the environment is less important than the economy, try to hold your breath while you're counting your money." Dear colleagues, please vote in favour of this important bill and maintain a clean environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, for the first time in many years, we are now putting to the vote a bill on ecology. This is very important! So we ask the honourable chairman, to whom I pass the word, maximum mobilization. Especially do we address those factions that are pro-European. This is now a bill concerning the implementation of the Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs, prepare for the decision. We have concluded our discussion, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Self-help! "self-help" is for, right? Fatherland, Sobolev, are you in favour? You're in favour, yes, we're in. BPP is "for", People's Front is "for". Democratic coalition, we vote, we take our seats, we prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, there is a coalition, in our souls it is, my friend John. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009a) as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Colleagues, yes. My colleagues, I have a question for the factions. Are you ready to vote? Colleagues, the vote is now taking place, all consultations can be held. Who supports the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009)a as a basis, please vote. Colleagues, voting, voting, colleagues. [[11:42:37]] For 216 I'll be right back. I'm asking the deputies to come to the hall. Please include the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 86, National Front – 61, Opposition Block – 12, Self-help – 19, Radical Party Lachka – 1, Fatherland – 16, Rebirth Party – 0, Will of the People – 7. We're short eight votes, colleagues. Please invite a faction colleague into the hall and please mobilize. During the vote, I ask you very much not to consult, but to vote. There is plenty of time to discuss. Are you guys ready? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2009a. I'm asking those people who support Euro-integration to concentrate and vote on the basis. Back to the vote, 2009a. Colleagues, please vote. I call for a vote, colleagues. We vote, please. [[11:44:37]] For 231 We're back. Colleagues, I'm putting the Environmental Impact Assessment Bill (2009)a back on the ground. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. On the ground, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:45:09]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, comrades, listen to me carefully. Mr. Victor, I see your hand, and I know your position. Today it's not a question, it's not a question of European integration, it's not a question of coalition, it's a question of the Ukrainian people and of all Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, and I very much ask you not to put political, political emphasis on this important issue. All right, guys, let's do it again. Pinzenik, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u99	Dear Head, dear colleagues! This is the case when very unpleasant things lie behind a beautiful shell. What are we talking about? Everyone in this room is calling for deregulation, to create great investment conditions, to cancel licenses, permits, and this law introduces rules by which a huge list of activities requires prior environmental expertise. Not enough that it creates conditions for corruption. And this control doesn't give you anything, because the next environmental control is needed. I'm talking to all my colleagues, and this is the law that the government should be preparing, not the MPs. Let the government prepare a normal law on environmental control, and we will support it, and not create new conditions that block investment and the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u100	Please, Minister, Ostap Semerak, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in fact, can be heard to correct criticism and to correct the second reading. But I have a question, would any of the Chinese want to build an oil refinery in the center of the city? The obvious answer is no. This law allows for such a relationship to be settled. I would like to support a fellow MP in the first reading of the MP's bill, a ministry that has just begun to work, will join this work, and we will together have a new text or a revised text for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u102	One minute, Irina Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u103	You know, dear colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich is absolutely right when he says that the key bills are to be prepared by the government. And I hope so. But I want to bring all of you back to the history of this bill, which went into the session hall, and it was prepared by the government, in fact, by the imperfect government, so it was introduced through the MPs, and there was a very proper discussion about the fulfillment of this bill. Next. The Titanic work of the profile committee and Oksana’s Prodan group took place, which brought together business, both small and medium, and so forth, that made their proposals. A committee and a group have been working on the drafting of this bill before re-reading it for several months to get out. And this is just an example of when corruption risks got out of there and left everything important to the protection of the environment. And we now accept it for our first reading. And I want to say that it's just a shame to see the MPs from the democratic factions that embroidered for Euro-integration, but when we vote on the law, which is our obligation, they go around the clock somewhere. Therefore, it is important in the first reading, as our ministers, who have been delegated to our new government, to support it in continuing to clean up the second reading together. But what the government has to do is make such bills solid, it's absolutely right, and we're going to expect it from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u104	Fish, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u105	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I'd like to point out to the distinguished representative from Peter Dustenk's Block that regulation and ecology are two related things. Ecology can't be deregulated. Ecology has to fight corruption, but ecology is always the role of the state. Business will never want to give anything for ecology on its own, it's always the state that has to take care of it. Energy conservation is always regulation, ecology is always regulation, and we have bred a lot of anti-corruption bodies to do so. So ecology is always regulation, not deregulation, it's in all countries, it's in Europe. So I'm asking the coalition's honourable colleagues, who only voted 141 for this bill, please vote in favour of ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to return to the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. We have both the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister to support this bill, although it is a deputy. I very much ask the factions to maximize the mobilization of their deputies. Maxim, can we vote? Colleagues, I'll put the bill back on the table, if there's no vote, the law will be rejected. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ready, colleagues? I propose to go back to voting for the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act, 2009a. Who supports the offer to come back. If the Eurooptimists support it, please return to your seats and vote during the vote. Okay? Who supports the offer to return, 2009a, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:51:37]] For 205 The decision is not made. Next suggestion: Return to the committee for re-reading. Is this an offer accepted: the Committee for Rereading? Is everyone supported? I'm proposing: the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act, 2009a, to the Committee on Re-reading. Yeah? Whoever supports this proposal, for the first time again, please vote. Please. [[11:52:21]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the next chapter, which is "to make decisions on the issues under discussion." These are the questions that were discussed in the full - time discussion room, but on which no decision had been taken. And I ask you not to leave the hall, but to stay in the hall. There will be a vote. So the first one is 3159. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the legal protection of foreigners and stateless persons and to resolve individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration. The responsible is Georgi Volodymyrovich of Logwinsky. And if he's in the hall, I'll give him a minute to remind him of the essence of the bill. Mr. Logwinsky, remind me of the substance of the bill. Turn on the Logwinsky microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u107	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize that we've already considered this bill, it's very important to our nation, it's addressing the issue of illegal migration in our country. Of course, although this bill is from the IMF draft bill, it is decisively protecting our borders. What is the point? It's about that if, according to the court's decision, a person is to be released outside Ukraine, but there was no mechanism, how do we do this, we applied these mechanisms, we gave guarantees for the protection of human rights, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we guaranteed the right to have borders intact and the statehood of our country. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. A large group was working on it. I'm with the Self-Help representatives, along with the Human Rights Council Commissioner, the human rights attorneys, the judicial branch of power. And we certainly found consensus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u108	I'm asking you, 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u109	We found some consensus in this bill. All representatives of the parliamentary factions supported it. I thank the self-help representatives who worked on this project. I thank the representatives of Peter Dustenk's Block. And the group I led has really found the decisions that are really necessary for our nation right now. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Logwinsky reminded us of the course of discussion, only to make decisions. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. Prepare to make a decision. Dear colleagues! Is there anyone in the hall? Is there any general support, Self-help? Fatherland, will you build a bill? Yes. Everybody backs up. Colleagues, all you have to do is discipline in the hall. So please prepare for the vote, colleagues. We discussed it in full procedure. We discussed all the amendments. We've been through it all along, this bill, and so I'm asking you to maximize our mobility so that we can make a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the legal protection of foreigners and stateless persons and to resolve individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration (3159). In the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:56:56]] For 228 Decision taken. The law is passed. The next thing we have in this chapter is, "to make decisions on the issues under discussion," this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated water resources management in accordance with the pool principle (3603). And I ask the head of the Committee of the Fishman, John Petrovich, to remind the deputies of the course of discussion. Please turn on the microphone of Rybaku Ivan Petrovich. And I'd like the deputies to be in the hall. There will be a decision to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed Bill 3603 in the first reading on amending some Ukrainian legislation on integrated approaches to water management based on the pool principle. I want to thank all the parliamentary factions and groups that were unanimous in support of this bill yesterday and voted in favour. The ones yesterday. The bill was not technically passed, but today because there are so many more deputies in the room, this law, I think, will pass. So I ask you to support him as unanimously as you supported him yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u112	May I have the opportunity to finish, Mr. John? You're done. Dear colleagues, in order for us to have understanding in the hall, we went through it in full procedure, there was full political support in the hall, there were no votes. I'm going to question the factions. Does "self-help" support you? Yes. "Paternity"? Supports. Colleagues other than our factions, is there support? "The will of the people," "Rebirth," there's support, right? So, colleagues, let's concentrate. There is no discussion, the discussion is over, we have such a thing that the discussion has already taken place. So I ask my colleagues to come into the hall, not to go out, but to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, have you all entered the Chamber of Deputies? Are all ready to make decisions? Colleagues, please prepare, I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of integrated approaches to water resources management on the basis of the pool principle (No. 3603). Based on the base. Dear colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we're voting, please. [[12:00:03]] For 227 Decision taken. I welcome Ribak Ivan Petrovich, and welcome the authors of this bill for their fruitful work. Now, according to the Supreme Council Rules, 12 hours and I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We will meet at the Supreme Council Hall at 12.30 to continue our difficult but necessary work. Thank you, colleagues. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 12.30.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Dwarves! What's the right thing to say now? Dniper, yeah. Please take up jobs, get ready for work. Dear colleagues! I don't see any deputies for the required quorum for the vote. I strongly urge the deputies to enter the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. Look, I'll just explain the logic to you when the MPs come in. We have, literally, two questions about raising social standards, the issue of withdrawing pension taxes. It's very simple. Now I'm going to set up a shorter procedure. If it's supported, we'll go faster. If the procedure is complete, it's going to be very simple: we're going to be talking about one thing an hour before the break. And I'm reminding you of the causal link. Each vote matters how quickly we approach the issue of social standards and how quickly we approach the issue of the abolition of pension taxes. This depends only on the common will of the hall, but for the hall to be able to make decisions, it needs to be filled. And that's why I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies into the Hall. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? And I'm going to go to the next chapter of the agenda. The next chapter in the agenda is "first reading." And they are the first issues that we need to consider. I remind you, after them, they're social standards, after them, they're taking away pension taxes. And that's why I'm now looking at a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated cost arrest system in civil and commercial jurisdiction. This bill is 3768. I think there's a general interest in looking at it in a simplified way. Is the Deputy Justice Minister in the Hall? Yes! In the embroidery. That's good. This gives us a chance to pass. It's a victory. Colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to review draft Law 3768 under a reduced procedure. And I ask you all to maintain that position. Please vote. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Colleagues, we're voting, please. [[12:42:03]] For-119 My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. This, of course, is the will of the hall. But I remind you, we have a chance by noon to get to the point of social standards and pension taxation. But if we go into full procedure now, it'll actually take us an hour to break. And by voting, I ask everyone to consider this position. We have limited hours, limited time. Then you ask me why there is no bill. But because we just can't reach them. And for us to reach them, it has to be an organized and coordinated work of the hall. Because walking around the clock and then demanding your bills are things that are mutually objectionable, incompatible. Please be disciplined and I beg your pardon. I'm going to put it again, and if there are no votes, we're going to go over the whole question. So once again, I am voting on the proposal to review the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated arrest system in civil and commercial jurisdiction (3768) with a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, summary procedure, please vote. [[12:43:37]] For 132 There is no political one. The room requires that there be consideration of the full procedure. There's no problem; we'll consider the full procedure. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. And I'm asking Sergey Igorevich to turn on the microphone for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u114	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by Bill 3768, which introduces new positions into the Civil Process and the Economic Procedural Code aimed at the introduction of an automatic system of arresting bank accounts. The point of the bill is that the normal procedure for executing court decisions in the case of bank accounts is not effective because money can be transferred quickly enough, in a few minutes or hours. Accordingly, it is proposed that an automated system allowing the court or the executioner, depending on the stage at which the arrest is decided, that the funds be automatically arrested in all Ukrainian banks and, accordingly, that the main obligation of the court be enforced. This law provides for safeguards against abuse, such as a limited maximum amount to be blocked at the expense of 100 minimum wages in relation to natural persons and 1000 minimum wages in relation to legal persons, and it also provides that the electronic system can automatically arrest only the costs, the principal amount of the debt, and not include fines and pennies. Accordingly, this law is one of the beacons required by the Memorandum of Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Similarly, this bill will strengthen the protection of investors' rights in Ukraine and will contribute to the increase in the Doing Business rating in the performance of contracts. Please support this bill as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u115	Thank you very much. The chairman of the committee on questions is invited to the report. Question, three minutes of questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Victor. Please sign up for a question to the reporter, three minutes, please. Little girl Ruslan, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u116	I would like to say that on the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking we are considering Bill 3498 on Capital Market and Derivatives Market, and we are also amending the Banking and Banking Act, which allows for the introduction of a new type of account. It's a limitation on escrow accounts and accounts that solves this problem in the same way, just the other way. So I would like to clarify how this system is going to work, that it can, as they will integrate, two systems, this is a banking system and a system of arrests? Will it simply be submitted to the National Bank and the National Bank will be implemented? How will this be implemented physically?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Yuri Solovay, please. And the answer? Excuse me, Mr. Deputy Minister, the answer, and then Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. This bill was drafted with the National Bank of Ukraine, the Independent Association of Banks of Ukraine. It has to be an automatic system, there will be no participation of the National Bank of Ukraine in deciding whether to arrest the funds that the court is accepting, or the State's executioner. They automatically introduce this system, and literally immediately, within a minute, the moment they've introduced it, these costs are arrested. Accordingly, this is a complex enough system that has to be created, where they have to be connected as courts. More specifically, the court puts this responsibility on one court and on all banks. It has to be technically well worked so that everything works automatically, so that there is no further influence of anyone, third parties or control bodies, on the input of data into this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Yuri Solovay, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u120	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, we today have very many relevant laws in the daytime order, including those relating to both pensions and social character. Instead, we are now considering a bill that, to me, does not bear any serious weight in Ukraine's legislative field. What is more, I have a specific question to answer: Please tell me why the issue in this law could not have been resolved by the order of the State Judicial Administration, for what purpose was it necessary to draft an entire bill and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Sergey Igorovich, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, these are really important two bills -- this one and the next -- because this bill is a structural beacon in a memorandum of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which is essential and important for continuing cooperation with the IMF in Ukraine. What is the need for a bill? Because the procedural codes currently do not provide for such a simplified system without judicial hearings, without a report of the respondent or the person whose funds are to be arrested. Such a procedure is not foreseen. Accordingly, it must be provided for at the legislative level in order to ensure that there are no allegations of infringements of the rights of debtors or persons whose money will be blocked on the basis of a secondary act. So we think that this should be well worked out, publicly discussed and adopted at the level of the legislative act itself. And this also changes procedural codes because it provides for a new type of conduct – orderly conduct on a particular procedure of the case, according to those decisions that cannot be decided on a sub-legal level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, this bill has been passed by the government as one of the IMF's requirements, and therefore it stands in order of the day. It is simple, but that is the reason. I would like to give you the floor to report to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u124	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I also want to correct the thesis that I just told the faction that it's a minor bill, a bill introduced by the President as urgent in the context of the reform of the executive service in Ukraine. Regrettably, Parliament has not yet been able to pass complex two laws on executive conduct. You know we have it in order today. And we must resolve that fundamental reform, for, including the problem of these bills, they are amending the current law on executive conduct, since we have not adopted other laws in general. And I hope that, as long as this bill and the next one are under consideration, we will adopt two basic laws and be able to introduce and correct appropriate references to the rules of the new law for the second reading of technical law. And now, briefly, the point is that Ukraine lost a whole series of human rights cases in the European Court of Justice regarding the improper execution of court decisions. There's a terrible statistic that's been voiced repeatedly here by the Minister of Justice and representatives of the government that we have different years, but on average, 6-10 percent are only implemented. Imagine: Of the millions of decisions made each year, a small percentage is made. In order to meet one of the requirements of the European Union, including in part the practice that is required. That's the one I picked up on. Ukraine has taken on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Justice and a series of pilot decisions: this and Ivanov v. Ukraine, this and North vs. Ukraine, this and Vojtenko v. Ukraine, a series of other known decisions without which we simply cannot move forward, because our European partners cannot understand why human rights regarding justice are so improperly protected. In view of this situation, we certainly need to make this decision today, at least in the first reading. The thing is, there are certain things that need to be taken into account. We had a conversation with the Minister of Justice, he was present yesterday, and he also agreed, on the grounds that we probably shouldn't make it clear in the bill itself that we are going to be dealing with this practice directly. It may be necessary to define the criteria and entrust the State Administration with the task of determining the court itself as one that is most technically prepared to perform such an extremely important technical function. On the other hand, we also agreed, since there is a requirement of the European Union for natural persons, it is necessary to duplicate, except by electronic means, also to inform people in writing about the implementation of the decision. We're going to have to look for a second reading of the model that will be acceptable to Ukraine, because it's also the state budget funds, and the corresponding work of the State Court Administration, and the specific courts, how we're going to implement this requirement. At the same time, given the urgency of a kind of bill that has been tabled by the President, and considering what we must do, indeed, as a beacon to the IMF. I want to tell you, yesterday I met with the IMF mission as chairman of the committee, for a few hours, these discussions were about enforcement laws and law enforcement laws. You know, yesterday the Mission finished its work just under our obligation that we will make our commitment to these things today, because it is no longer even a beacon of this tranche, it is the late lighthouses of the last tranche of the IMF, which are not just red anymore, but the ultra-red line is going through in any of Ukraine's talks with the International Monetary Fund. So, my friends, I'd like to ask you to support the committee's position that this bill should be adopted as a basis and in parallel to the adoption of two law enforcement laws as a whole. And then the committee will be ready for second reading, taking into account the new edition of the Law on Executive Conduct, to prepare and make appropriate changes to this law, so that we can complete the reform of the executive service in Ukraine at this session. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u125	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes to ask the co-rapporteur. I'm asking you to do the recording. Please. Please, Captain Olena. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u126	I have a question about conceptual principles. Please tell the bill as well as the next one that we will consider, about the command -- they don't fit into the general concept of reform of the executive service. How do we now see the possibility, if we adopt in the first reading, to work on the second reading of the bills that go against the adopted concept of executive reform, especially that we are to vote in Parliament today, as far as I know, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u127	Thank you so much for asking. I was trying to explain in my speech, and I'm going to try to play it again. Perhaps they misunderstood because I was misinterpreting. The point is that it's actually a series of changes that, including those two bills that we're considering today, are supposed to be adopted after the whole legislation on enforcement is adopted. Indeed, including in this series of blank rules contained in this bill, they refer to the current drafting of the Law on Enforcement and if the so-called implementation reform is adopted in general, we will have to reform this law in a different way. But this gives us the possibility of the Rules, since we will not pay new standards, and this will not conflict with article 116 of the Rules. The point is that we're just going to adjust according to what's changed the basic law, the links and the technical stuff in this bill. So this can be done in a second-reading technical way. The committee is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u128	Give us a chance to finish, Mr. Ruslan? You don't have to, do you? Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Give me your word, please, Aloni's Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u130	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you very much. I actually have a question either to Mr. Petuhov's deputy minister or to the committee head. Please explain to me honestly where the IMF section on the reform of the judicial system of the IMF Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy points out exactly the things mentioned in this bill. Because, for example, I've looked at the adjustments you make to the Banking and Banking Act, and I think they don't correspond to some of our commitments under the IMF memorandum. The memorandum is about enhancing the effectiveness of bank accounts detection, maintaining reasonable deadlines, and the responsibility of banks. That's exactly what I didn't see in this bill. I saw other things. Let's talk about that without actually reforming the executive branch and enforcing the court decisions we won't be able to take this bill properly because they are so dependent on each other that if we take it on the first reading right now, we might have to work on it very seriously. So let's make this logical, let's actually adopt the laws in the second reading first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u131	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u132	Let's start with a real reform of the execution of court decisions and then we'll be on the basis of what we're going to take. There's a huge number of rights, now maybe we'll send these laws out for a second read, we'll go through the law again. Then on the basis of this, we're going to work on these laws in the first reading, I think it would make sense. And tell me where in the memorandum with the IMF are the exact positions that are listed here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u133	With your permission, I will be able to answer Sergey Igorovich. And please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. In the memorandum, paragraph 29 in the section on judicial reform, paragraph "a", the procedure for the enforcement of the order for payment and the arrest of funds in the account, by the end of December 2015, a law will be adopted to strengthen the provisions of the Civil Procedural Code on the order for payment of debts for internal transactions and the imposition of arrests on bank accounts, a modified "structural beacon". And so on in the text, "reading out bottlenecks that inhibit the effectiveness of procedures in such areas as the detection of debtor's bank accounts, the servicing of the process, compliance with strict time limits and the responsibility of banks to meet the requirements." Accordingly, this bill will allow you to create an effective system of arresting money in bank accounts; it is bank accounts that can be transferred in minutes, an hour, two. So today's system doesn't work, you need an electronic system that can block money in an account in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Last question, Oles Long, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, I have two trailers. First on the substance of the bill. I want to say that we're going to support it because it's one of the IMF's beacons, and given the essence of the bill itself. At the same time, I would like to point out that there is already a bill that you and I passed on the first reading, on the implementation of which, when we adopt the bill that we are considering right now, is simply not relevant. That's the first one. The other one. What's going on in the discipline room and why we didn't adopt all the previous drafts. It seems to me that you, Mr. Chairman, might want to cancel the break from 12 to 12.30, because we have a break from 2 to 4, that's enough. Because every time you let the deputies on break at 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u137	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u138	When you let the deputies on break at 12, at 12:30 there's only you, Mrs. Heratchenko and a few other deputies, and everyone else comes in at least 15-20 minutes. So it seems to me, as a wish, that if you propose a rule in the Rules, we will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u139	I'll answer, there was a call for me, then I'll give it to Ruslan. Dear colleague Olese and all fellow members of the national MPs, today, according to the signatures of the five heads of the factions of Parliament, there have been recorded changes to the Ukrainian Rules as a joint effort of our team with the Europarliament team. And they will now be offered in the hall and in the committee discussion. Between the first and the second readings, we can totally accept your removal of the break. I've always been a fan of that. Now I don't let MPs go of my own free will. I'm letting the deputies go because that's what the Rules require. Let's change, reform the Rules, make the Supreme Council more efficient and more transparent. And I'm sure our work will be more effective. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Let me go to Alona Shkrum first. Alona Ivanovna, the point is, is now in the midst of a mission. It's not written directly because it wasn't, I say again, a late lighthouse yet December of last mission. It's about what we've taken, think about our commitment by the end of December 15th of the year to enact the law as a whole. And I'm reminding you that we are now living in May 16th and we're thinking that we can take it as a base. Yesterday, at a meeting with the mission, I heard requests from them even if I were to begin the process. If we take it as a basis, we'll have an argument in our discussions with him that we've really started to consider this issue and we're actively working on it. If we can't even cause ourselves to accept it as a basis, then these arguments that we're there, you know, somehow we're going to approach it, it doesn't suit them, because Ukraine took this commitment on itself, and there was a corresponding document signed back, I think, a year ago. On the other hand, once again, Oles Stanislavovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee assumes responsibility if this bill is approved in the first reading and it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u141	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u142	In general, two laws are adopted today on executive conduct in preparation for the second reading to harmonize their texts so that we do not have any controversy. It's possible from a technical point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next chapter in the discussion is "show by factions." Which of the factions would like to address this issue please record. Then it'll be from the deputies. It's from the factions. Please. Sergey Eutusek of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u145	Sobolje, Fatherland. This is undoubtedly a very important bill. But I would like to point out right away that unfortunately, the drafting of this bill does not meet any of the rules of law. Starting with mistakes that have been made and references to laws or attempts to make changes to laws that have already been amended or individual laws are generally defined as non-existent. I point out that the preparation of such an important bill should begin with a clear definition of terminology. That's why the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority is paying attention to us people's deputies, that without a clear definition of what a system of automated asset arrest means, for the first time, it introduces such a concept in the legal practice of Ukraine, the further rule of law does not actually have any legal effect. The first thing to start with is to figure out the essence of these. The other one. According to our concept of judicial reform, the court does not rely on the execution of court decisions. This is how this information should come to the judge. But in fact, in this bill, you rely on a judge to ensure that decisions are implemented that do not belong to our practice or to world practice. Third, which is very important. This is not actually a source of information. Yes, good information is provided, and how does this information come from those who will follow through on this decision? This is far more important. And the fourth. The standards of this law need to be in line with the standards of other laws to which changes are made. Well, for example, the Law of Executive Conduct. We've already made some changes in how this law, as you refer to it, ceases to work. What's next? So I fully support the findings of the Supreme Council Scientific and Scientific Administration. We need to reintroduce this bill once again by carefully studying these key points and working on it, perhaps better on a profile committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u146	Thank you. The word is "self-help" for Ljubomir Zuba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u148	Colleagues! The Self-Help faction at this stage will not support this bill in relation to the following problems. First. Mr. Knazevitch noted that technical remedies could be applied to the second reading and correction of the general concept of executive reform. I'm sorry, but this reform of the executive service is a conceptually large bill that significantly changes the entire legislative framework of the executive service. The corresponding numbering of the articles, and the names of them, and the conceptual approaches, they're the opposite, they're completely different. So legal engineering is not going to be enough here, and we're definitely going beyond the rules. So working on the second reading is, first of all, a wrong, non-systemic approach. Secondly, it is simply impossible to comply with the Rules. Now, about the concept of the bill. We always have "devil," it's in small detail. Yes, it is very necessary, on the one hand, to quickly secure the arrest of funds if there is an appropriate court decision. But on the other hand, you and I understand that we have to provide and guarantee a fair instrument, and not to be used against business is the first. And the second. We were not explained by the deputy minister of justice, and how, today, the banking system is ready to make these changes, what they have done to enable the banking system to function and implement this legislation at all. What is our willingness to change the business that we are willing to change all of the functional things, and there are a lot of these details to make this bill really active and implemented. So we're dealing with the problem again when we're trying "increasing," very quickly to meet the demands of the IMF, or some other external partner of ours, and yet we're not ready for this reform from a technical point of view and we don't agree with what's going on in Parliament today. Our presidency: first, to bring these bills back to the committee, to agree with the general concept of reforming the executive service, and to put these bills into Parliament in a normal way to vote them, not to correct them for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u149	Thank you. The word is given to Ruslan Knazević, "Peter Prashenko's Block", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Friends, look, it looks like there's some bad IMF coming to our house, doing some homework for us, coming to Ukraine, and saying, look, we've written your assignments here, and, well, you know, just do them in these terms. All of these requirements that we are seeing right now are being made by the IMF mission to Ukraine, this part, in this part, of the executive implementation, of the Treaty of Association with the European Union. It was from this agreement, in line with Ukraine’s plan and cooperation with IMF, that the IMF mission proposed Ukraine to work together on a number of legislative decisions. And the fact that we now accuse the President of being the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, obviously that in some way the laws conflict with each other, is not the problem of the President. Because he introduced these bills six months ago, which unfortunately were being watched in Parliament for six months, although we were promptly considered by the committee, we were still here deciding with you the prime ministers and the spikeriads, and we were busy with other things, and we didn't want to think about the IMF coming in May to show you the execution of these shirts, there's no one to translate to. Guys, we've led ourselves to this situation and now no one but us can solve this situation in order to reconcile the bills. As a committee, we are ready to do so. Of course, there will be some things, let's say, on a regulatory level, but in order to carry out this mission, it seems to me that a joint parliamentary decision can get us out of this situation of technical law. For our part, the Peter Prashenko bloc will support the President's initiative, and we ask colleagues, both in coalition and in the former coalition, to support those commitments that we have made together before the European Union and before the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u151	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Igor Mosiychuku, and let's move on to the next chapter from the deputies. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. Turn on Igor's microphone. We need a card. [[B in m in s a l in]] On it, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u152	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Without even blocking the parliamentary rostrum, our faction would never have supported this bill in such a way. He needs careful work, not a break between first and second reading, right now. But actually, I was going to say no to that right now. It was at this very hour in the Ugly Court of the so-called "jury" that two Ukrainians – Nicholas Karpuk and Stas Klich, whom I know for over 25 years – were guilty of killing Russian soldiers. I well know that neither one nor the other during the war was the first or second Chechnya in the territory of Icéria. This is the political condemnation that the authorities of the Russian Federation are currently making over Ukrainians. This is the revenge of Ramzan Kadirov personally to the Ukrainians, who really fought on the side of Icceria, but among them were neither Carpuk nor Cliché. So the charges against them aren't just absurd, they're inconvenient. And today’s judgment in Grozny, a jury, proves this. That there is no jury in the Russian Federation, like any court. All the sentences in the Rasca were handed down personally by Putin or his Kadirov girlfriend. There is no court in the Russian Federation. And we in Ukraine have to do, to demonstrate what we are different from the aggressor country, we have to illustrate the Ukrainian courts and restore justice so that there will never, ever be any similar decisions in Ukrainian history, such as those made in the Russian Federation. And also, on May 24th, at Mikaly Karpuk's birthday. I'm talking to all my colleagues, I'm talking to all of the Ukrainian people: write a letter to Nicholas, support Nicholas. They were tortured, severely tortured, only for being a Ukrainian nationalist because of his beliefs. So I appeal to the entire nation on May 24 to make the day of support for Mikaly Karpuk. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u153	Thank you. We finished the factions. I'm now asking you to record a three-minute performance of the National MPs. Please record who is willing to participate in the discussion, please. Bereza Borislav. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address all of you with one question. Do you understand that very little is being told in Ukraine about all those who are now behind bars in Russia, about Cliche, Carpuk, Sintsa? Yes, we often remember Nadia Savchenko, but very many other Ukrainians who are there now, Artem Chigos and many others. Crimea is currently being tortured over Tatars that support Ukraine and say Crimea is Ukraine. So I can tell you that my colleague was just talking about Santa Claus. In fact, he was kidnapped from Ukraine. Indeed, it is a direct vendetta for being a Ukrainian nationalist. And I want to say that we have to do everything we can to make sure that nothing like this could ever happen in the Ukrainian courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u156	Good afternoon. Comrades, MPs! When the Anti-Corruption Committee addressed the issue of the return of deposits by the Banking Guarantee Fund, a number of corrupt schemes were considered and a number of corrupt schemes were set up that resulted in the withdrawal of funds from bankrupt banks abroad. And so the following was to be noted, to prevent these actions from being allowed from a bankrupt bank that was subject to certain restrictions on financial transactions, including government funds that were provided by the National Bank for Refinancing. The bill was needed more than two years ago. And really, when we were looking at the issue of the withdrawal of these funds, of assets, we were faced with a situation where, through the court, there were arrests, when prosecutors and militias were in any way impeding access to the bank's assets to persons from the Deposit Guarantee Fund in order to properly preserve the assets and assets that had to be returned to the debtors. Thus, the bill will make it impossible for others, outsiders, to influence the property that has been arrested, and will ensure that the property is returned in an appropriate manner to ensure that the claim is made to the people who have suffered the damage. And this is particularly true of the assets of the people of the Yanukovic regime, who are now awaiting their return to the people of Ukraine and the state, especially during this difficult time, to provide the army. I ask the MPs to support this bill and properly vote in order to eliminate any possibility of accessing corruption schemes to property that the Ukrainian people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's Yuri Lewchenko. And I ask the MPs to come into the hall, and in a few minutes, there will be a vote to make a decision. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u158	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I would ask coalition, government and general authority not to manipulate concepts like: laws require IMF, the law. requires visa-free mode. Someone else is asking, someone else is asking, someone else is asking. I would like to ask you, however, to use an exclusive concept when considering laws: What is required by Ukrainian society and what is needed for the Ukrainian people. And by the way, when you talk about IMF, you know, enough to manipulate. The IMF actually requires one thing -- to balance the budget so that the income is equal to the expenditure so there's no deficit. And once we do, that's our business. Of course, if a coalition for a year and a half refuses, for example, to cancel the Cyprus Agreement, which brings out hundreds of millions of dollars a month, well, of course, then the cost reduction requirements for finding other arrivals begin. Obviously. But would you still do such things? Such a bill cannot be adopted in this way. And you don't have to tell me what the IMF requires, because the IMF doesn't require such bills. I'm sure that IMF officials actually didn't even read the text you're proposing today. Because despite the normal idea of starting an automatic system. automated cost arrest -- and that's the right idea, yes -- but you're putting this idea in the hands of judges who have a decision to make, not to make decisions. The judge has to do justice. The judge has to make the right decisions, not then sit down and kill them with pens in an automated system, and then influence them. Because, in fact, a corrupt mechanism is being created where the judge has, let's say, additional powers, and accordingly, the moments of encouraging judges are not enough to stimulate them today, and you're also allowing corruption once again to affect the judiciary. It is obvious that the proposal to place a public executioner’s duties on a judge, as you now suggest, and to establish that information about the arrests of funds on the basis of the court’s execution of a lawsuit should be brought to the automatic detention system by a judge is completely incorrect. The Constitution of Ukraine says that professional judges exercise justice in accordance with part two of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law "On Enforcement of Enforcement" according to the task of the State Executive Service is a timely, full and impartial enforcement of the decisions provided for in the laws. Thus, it would be more appropriate for you to strengthen the functioning of the State Enforcement Service in the automated cost arrest system and at the same time ensure the immediate transfer of court decisions to the State Enforcement Service. And it should also be noted that the functioning of the State Executive Service of an automated cost arrest system would contribute to the speedy and more effective execution of all court decisions. (10 seconds, please.) So instead of assigning judges completely uninhabited functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u159	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u160	Rather than assigning the judges completely uninhabited functions, you would better give appropriate powers to the State Executive Service and provide one more thing to ensure that these decisions are promptly transferred to the executive service. That's it. It's automated.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. We have concluded a discussion, not a simple discussion that shows that the discussions are very thorough, after that bill. According to the regulations, we still have the final word for the reporter and the coreporter. Is there a need? Sergey Igorovich, is there a need for a closing word? Please give me one minute's closing, Sergey Igorovich. And invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u162	Thank you for giving me your word. First of all, I would like to correct the thesis that these bills contradict the concepts of reform of the executive service, in fact in the present form they are amending only the two articles of the Law on the Enforcement Service, which are caused by the fact that these bills have been introduced long enough into the Supreme Council, and the new bills have not been adopted, they do not change, they do not affect the concept of a new executive service, which the Ministry of Justice has also developed, and obviously we have agreed accordingly on the provisions of these two bills and bills of execution. There are no contradictions there. And second of all, about the inequity functions of the courts. This is a new mechanism for technical enforcement of the court's decision to secure a lawsuit. Instead of carrying papers or handing them over to the State Executive Service, the court can immediately bring them into an electronic automated system. And that's an effective way: there's no time for this money to be spent. The judge made a legal decision and immediately carried out the arrest. That's what these bills are all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u163	Thank you. One minute, Ruslan Knazevich, closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u164	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, since a number of speakers have expressed some warnings, fear that the committee will not be able to properly introduce appropriate technical legal remedies and prepare it for second reading, I propose the following algorithm on behalf of the committee. Let's step up. Let us accept it today in the first reading, then accept the reform of the entire executive service, and then the committee will do its job. If you feel that it is not properly executed and is contradictory, you will be right to make the right decision in the second reading. But now we don't start this process and deliberately show the IMF missions what we are. I think it's a crime against the state. This is my personal conviction. Guys, let's at least make a small step forward in this reform. And believe me, we're going to have a very long, detailed discussion with you in second-reading mode, where without your participation, we can't come up with a compromising, cohesive solution. It's in our hands, but nothing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I hope all my colleagues have heard Ruslan's offer. You know, we're not going to take a second reading without the will of the room. But in order to give a sign to show just that we're willing to cooperate, I think it would make sense for us to support it in the first reading. Colleagues, if this proposal is not supported, I'll put the following. But I think it would be a good sign to support you in the first reading today. Is that possible? Impossible. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'll put the next one on again first. Will you support that? Yes. Consider this. I'm going to put in the sequence that's stipulated by the Rules. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? So I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated arrest system in civil and commercial jurisdiction (No. 3768). The committee's proposal on the basis. And I think that's going to be the basis for voting. Whoever supports this proposal please vote on the basis of 3768. Please vote. [[13:28:53]] For a hundred and Next offer. Colleagues, back her up. To the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Can you hold it? "Paternality," will you? Colleagues, I'll make the next offer. Please remain seated. These are important laws that determine to a large extent our cooperation so that we can demonstrate ourselves responsible for making decisions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the next proposal. Draft law, 3768, to be sent to the committee for re-reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on this proposal. Colleagues, let's concentrate. And I would like to vote for the re-reading. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[13:29:51]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have the next law that is actually compatible with that law and let's go through it quickly, and we'll make the same decision. Or we could just do it. No, we can't break it, colleagues, I'm sorry. Let's get through it real quick. The next one is 3769. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of orderly conduct in civil and commercial jurisdiction (3769). There is a proposal from the Committee on Short-Term Review. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, summary procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:30:54]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u166	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Law 3760 was similarly developed in a package with the previous one and introduced an electronic order procedure in civil and commercial jurisdiction. Commanding is a simplified procedure that is used in cases where even if there is a dispute there is an obvious possibility of solving a case in certain categories. The bill expands the grounds for the application of the order and the introduction of it in electronic form, creating preconditions in which cases it can be applied. Similarly, it introduces fuses, namely: the maximum amount limit that can be applied under this procedure, and so that only the principal amount of the debt can be collected, not the fines and the penny, respectively. Accordingly, it is suggested that an electronic order be made to one of the courts, according to the household system. The system of commercial courts, as well as the system of courts of general jurisdiction, will contribute to the faster and more efficient handling of such cases. According to the State Judicial Administration, such a system can be developed within one year and implemented. Similarly, the delegation of the Ministry of Justice has studied Poland's experience, where such a system is long and successful, we have adopted the basic positions and looked at how it works there, and accordingly we ask the National Deputies to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u167	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u168	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in principle, the deputy minister told us everything, I think it's absolutely justified. In the absence of time, I will not be able to repeat again all the things we discussed during the discussion of the first question. I'm just going to say that since a number of deputies, including the committee, are now making warnings in the room about the fact that the bill clearly defines the courts, I'm going to remind you that it's about the jurisdiction of the household and the court of Montenegro, and the bourgeois court of civil jurisdiction. And I don't think it's a problem, you can rediscover clear criteria in the second reading mode, for example, by assigning the State Attorney's Office to determine such courts, taking into account technical equipment. If that's the only warning, then believe me, it's no problem, I know the previous position of the Minister of Justice, I don't think the Ministry will deny the Cabinet of Ministers that these are the technical things they're willing to go to. Moreover, I know that the Ministry of Justice has sent this bill for expertise to the European Union, and now the European Union has drawn up an appropriate conclusion, which is to come to Ukraine, where it fully supports the proposed bill. And in principle, what he's saying is, really, he's reflecting the practices of the electronic court that exist in Europe as a basic model was the Polish model, but the Poles also took from the German model, part of the Dutch model, from the Austrian model. That is, the adoption of these legislative acts brings us closer not only to meeting the demands of the European Union but also to simplifying the admission of Ukrainians to justice and, above all, to seeking justice in Ukrainian courts. The less the human factor gets involved, the more there will be electronic things that can be traced in real-time mode, and every computer in Ukraine will see the move, as it were, the less the abuse in this extremely, let's say, sensitive queen. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis. And because he is one who needs a certain correction, considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u169	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u170	We're also going to take into account in the second-reading mode all the necessary technical and legal regulations to adapt them to the new drafting of laws on enforcement. Please also accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yes. I'm asking you to do a recording, two for, two for against. Please. Please, Anna Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u172	I give the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u173	Colleagues, as far as the bill is concerned, here in fact, from the regulatory point of view that the previous bill had, a little bit easier to correct, but we're going to do the work again, when, in fact, by adopting the basic reform, we're going to change it, on the move, the bill is touching. Now, as for the observation of the Czernigian Court, which is in the civil justice system and accordingly. On the contrary, Chernigovsky in the system of agriculture and Brovarski in the civil justice system. I think one of the key conceptual principles in the reform of the judicial system is to facilitate citizens' access to the judicial system and to protect their cases in the judicial system. So right now, before the first reading, I suggest that we exclude the rule that only these two jurisdictions are clearly defined because we create barriers to access and why these criteria are why these courts were chosen. And I suggest, on the contrary, this rule that Mr. Knazevitch spoke about that the judicial administration would determine and the number of these courts should not be alone. Because I'm asking you not to take over Polish practice, it's quite different, there's a completely different court system, there's only general courts, there's general jurisdiction, and there's administrative courts and everything, we're different. And we actually don't have the kind of pressure in the household courts like this, for example, in Poland -- much more cases. So it would be appropriate to come out here just to ask citizens to access this tool and to increase the number of these courts because technically it is possible for them to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u174	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u175	From a technical point of view, this is possible, so I suggest, we can support it in the first reading, but we can rule out the rule and still allow the number of these courts to determine and determine precisely by technical characteristics, not by coming up with some incomprehensible principles that were proposed by the initiators of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u177	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In general, the issue of orderly conduct and introduction to Ukraine is an extremely important initiative. But at the same time, this bill, I think, needs a very serious revision. The main problem of this bill is that it is determined by two courts: the Czernigowski – in the business process and the Brovar Regional Court – in the civil process. It is completely incomprehensible that these two courts are chosen solely in principle. Obviously, it is necessary to change the principle of allowing all judges, where appropriate, to register. And so that, electronically, by appropriate rotation to these judges, cases will automatically fall into place. Because no matter where the judge is physically, the main thing is that both the prosecutor and the defendant are registered at the appropriate base, they are ready to deal with the matter in order of orderly implementation. The judge will look into the matter and make an electronic decision. So I think that this bill needs to be redrafted in this context and then voted in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I want to remind you that the next bill is a bill on social standards. And it's probably also important for all the people's deputies here to raise social standards for their communities. So I'm asking you to stay in the hall, get ready for the vote, get into the hall, get the factions to mobilize the deputies in the hall, and I'm giving the floor to Paul Kishkara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u180	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, look, here's this bill that he's proposing to make a radical change in our situation today. Today there is an order, but today there is no, as the bill says, automated electronic command system. So it's interesting that this project, which is proposed to be implemented, is missing from the scope of the concept of "automated electronic command system." And this does not allow a clear definition of the form in which this system is to be objectified, in fact. So this is the main content of the project, but it has no definition. Well, that's a first. Secondly, the definition of part seven in article 22 of the Master's Procedural Code of Ukraine in part four of article 112, which complements Ukraine's CDC, that access to an automated electronic command system is granted only to judges and officers of the relevant court according to their functional duties makes it difficult to register those involved in such conduct. This, in turn, can have a negative impact on the effectiveness of this system, especially because the retractor does not have reliable information about whether or not the borrower is registered in this system. So it's proposed to create a system, but it's limited access to this system. So once again, completely self-dispute is proposed in this law. Well, there's a lot of other negatives in there. But still, what my colleagues have noticed, I would like to point out. Well, people good, so clearly you're proposing that good things be wrapped in a corrupt shell, that it's just laughter through tears. You wouldn't have chosen these two courts at all: the Brovar Court and the Czernigow Court. Why didn't you make the Cave Court? This is the only court in the cave that can work on the new system, and then everything would be great, everyone would understand. And yes, you see, you want something corrupt, but it's somehow clouded. Well, listen, that's funny! If you're starting a new system, it's only supposed to be right at two. There must be a clear choice of judges, not as you suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. During the discussion, thoughts and suggestions were made. Helen Sotnik made an offer, which, in the case of self-help, will support in the first reading. Ms. Helen, I understand that if your amendment is taken into account, do you support it in the first reading? So we have a chance to go to a successful vote. Let us ask the committee in its head whether we can accept this amendment. In the meantime, I ask all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I give my word to Ruslan Knazevitch. I ask the heads of factions to call the deputies into the hall. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u182	Well, first of all, I want to tell Yuri Lewchenk that this wasn't the position of Peter Prashenko's Block, he was from Peter Prashenko's Block. Peter Prashenko's Block will support President Prashenko and vote in favour of this bill. The point, my friends, is that it was the State Administration that recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers determine these two courts, taking into account their technical equipment and ability to carry out this very, very important mission. But once again, if there's a warning, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, we're ready to write that this kind of court should be determined by the State Court. If this amendment is accepted and the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers does not deny it (please give him the floor), I would like to support it. It's a normal way out of the situation, because that's exactly what the SAA recommended. They're just going to do it in a different way, not directly in the law. Please allow the Deputy Minister to express his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u183	Please take part in the discussion, Mrs. Helena, we are discussing your proposal. Please, Sergey Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, it is not the principle of defining specific courts in law. This was a proposal from the State Judicial Administration, we can make arrangements for the determination of these courts, or we can hand over this authority to the State Judicial Administration. But I would like to stop at why there should be one court in every system and why it is justified. There won't be a problem with access to justice, because by definition, this electronic command will be done in an electronic system, i.e. any person or representative of a legal person wherever he is, he can electronically apply to the system for the start of such conduct, and this is directly provided for in the law. Accordingly, they are not attached to the location. And second of all, why is that supposed to be in the same court? Again, Poland's experience, where this is put on the Court's electronic court in Ljubljana, where a third of the employees are court referees of this court, is about 70 people who process all cases of electronic conduct. And that's what it's chosen to focus on in one place to better control and best practices in one place to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u185	Do you support the amendment of Olenia Sotnik?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u187	Yes. Dear colleagues, please. Helen, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u188	Colleagues, look. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u189	For a stenographer, please tell your amendment to be marked for the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u190	Look, we're not just talking about throwing these courts away and leaving them to their discretion. The point is, yes, anyone can make an application, and the question of how he will control the passage of this application is very large. And given what Mr. Deputy Minister of Justice has just said, it turns out that we have a problem in general conceptually with how we're going to implement this order. So maybe let's say, colleagues, let's still send it to the committee, agree on all of these principles and concepts, and together with the previous 3768, let's re-read it so that we don't have any questions about how people can access and protect people's rights to participate in this, let's do it electronically, but still the tools of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u191	Mrs. Olena, I didn't quite get it. Your amendment is supported. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I want to emphasize. I'll put it to a vote, although it's just a basis, a society. This is not in general. But I'm going to put it to a vote with a proposal from Elena Stotnik. Although we understand that it can be fully introduced between the first and the second readings. But I'll make an offer. Mr. Ivan, 30 seconds, 30 seconds, make an amendment. And please, in 30 seconds, there will be a vote. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u192	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I completely agree with my colleague, Lélena Stotnik, and I propose the following amendment. What we accept in the first reading, if we are to take into account when preparing for the second reading a change in the order of jurisdiction in electronic order of command, is not to make the household court of Chernigiv district, in the civil-Blorski MS, that is to be changed and, in the first reading of the vote of this approach, to the second reading, we will definitely change it and correct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u193	No, we're closing the discussion. Is it supported, Ruslan? Not supported. Society — Will It Endure Forever? It's going to last forever. Why couldn't we discuss all this on the committee, my friends? Why do we have to do this in the session room? Please, Ruslan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u194	I'll explain again. The point is that we remove these two courts so that no one will be intimidated and we write that we are tasked to determine, in accordance with the defined criteria of the State Judicial Administration, such courts. Without specific reference to both the name of the court and the number of such courts in Ukraine. May they themselves, in view of the appropriate facilities of the courts, make the decision as it is done in all countries of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u195	Ruslan, Ivan, Olenka, what are we arguing about? This is the first reading, all the revisions will be from the first to the second. What are we arguing about? I'm going to put to the vote with the proposal that John Krulko made for the transcript, and I'm going to ask everyone to support it. Do you copy, Ruslan? Is it accepted? Come on, we've got the deputy minister in the embroidery, let's back up, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I would like to vote in favour of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of orderly conduct in civil and commercial jurisdiction (No. 3769), which was issued by John Krulko and Olena Sotnik, on the basis of the law. Whoever supports this proposal on the basis of those amendments, please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[13:49:59]] For-189 Thank you for your support. I've made all the adjustments. Very nice, very nice, we have a very nice, proper discussion that comes out. It's fantastic. Colleagues, will you support your return to the committee again? "self-help," do you support the return? Can you hear me or not, "self-help"? The committee, you support, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make the next suggestion to refer you to the committee to prepare you for your first reading. Is that supported? Is it supported, Fatherland? Peter Dust Block, supported, my friends? It's supported, yeah. Front supports, right? Dear colleagues, I am voting: to refer the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of order in civil and commercial jurisdiction, No. 3769, to the committee for the preparation for the re-reading. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:51:21]] For 219 I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall. Now I'm going to make that offer again. She doesn't need to come back, does she? Does she need to come back? Please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, can we not have a discussion during the vote? Are we all ready to vote, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u196	[[From the Hall]] Close the meetings, there are no people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u197	You're ready, aren't you? Dear colleagues, I propose to return to the vote for an offer to refer to the committee. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Who supports the proposal to return to the committee? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3769 – return to the proposal to be sent to the committee. Please vote. 3769. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[13:52:40]] For 221 There are no votes needed for that. The next proposal is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, can we support her with this offer? Dear colleagues, I'm betting exactly what the Rules provide and no more. And, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. Ready? I'll make the next vote. To correct, reverse the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the imposition of order in civil and commercial jurisdiction (No. 3769). Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please vote. [[13:53:58]] For 218. The offer did not find the necessary support. And that's why I'm announcing draft Law 3769 to the rejected. Dear colleagues, we've already returned to the committee twice. And there was a chance to mobilize as much as possible. Colleagues, let's consult. Attention! We are now awaiting several important drafts on social standards. Can we get in there now, there's two. Is it better after the break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is this the general position of the hall? Then, dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize an important point. After a break, we're in the process of reviewing bills to raise social standards and withdraw pension taxes. What are some of the most important, responsible laws? And I would ask that all the national deputies of all factions be disciplined in the hall so that we can start planning and systemic work at 2 p.m. At that morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 2 p.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, very important drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u198	[[From the Hall]] Oh, 16!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-19-m0.u199	Oh, 16! At 4 p.m., I'm asking you to come to the conference room to continue our consideration of our issues. Thank you very much.
