ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:04:25]] 283 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues. I would like to welcome Bogdan Seminovich Onfreak with his birthday, as well as Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, and welcome him, who is always on the watch of our Rules. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Welcome to our colleagues. Respectable Society! We had a tough day yesterday, but it was a very responsible day. We were able to make all the key decisions to reformat the Cabinet of Ministers. And I think it's very symbolic that it's only been a few hours since the election of the government, and the government is already here to answer your questions. I would like to welcome both the government and Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine, please welcome. [[Applause]] I have been approached by a number of deputies, since the Rules said yesterday was not enough time, perhaps, to hear the opinions of most ministers to develop their direction, to see their development. And I turned to the Prime Minister so that maybe we could talk to the ministers a little longer today as long as possible. Maybe not an hour, but an hour of 15, an hour of 20, because at 11:30 a.m. there is an important government action. And I think it's going to be important for this discussion to take place. Communication between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers should be a key guarantee of our cooperation as bills and decision-making. And that's why I'm counting on this cooperation from the first days, from the first days, to be very dense, very productive and very effective cooperation. And according to the order of the day, I declare an hour of questions to the government. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, on Friday of 10 a.m., an "hour of questions to the Government" is held and an hour of questions to the government is set out in article 229 of the Rules. Today it is suggested that two ministers speak, this is Zhdanov Igor and Omelyan. I think it's a tradition, and it's a good thing when we're in the ministries of brothers and more deeply understand the essence of what we're going to do in those ministries. And then, as always, we'll sign up for questions from MP factions and groups. We're just going to make that part of the question a little bit longer if there's no objection in the room. As far as possible? About 45 to 50 minutes instead of 30 minutes. I'm supported in the hall, it's a success, it's a victory. And I invite young and sports minister Igor Aleksandrovitch Zhdanov to the report in 15 minutes. If there's any less, we'll just be congratulating for more time to ask. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs, I would like to take a closer look at the preparations for Ukraine's Olympic Games, which will be held in Rio de Janeiro in August this year, as well as at the Paralympic Games, which will take place there in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil in September 2016. Despite the war and the difficult socio-economic situation, Ukraine has maintained its position over the last two years as top-twenty leading sports nations of the world. This is primarily the great credit of our athletes and coaches. During 2015, Ukrainian team members from Olympic, non - Olympic, and Paralympic sports won over 2,000 800 prizes in international competitions, of which nearly 1,000 were gold. Olympic athletes have chosen 440 prizes, not Olympic sports of 1,000 754, paralympic athletes have won 625 medals of various kinds. As of April 2016, Ukraine was granted 138 licences to participate in the summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro and 95 licences to participate in the Paralympics. This is not the final number of licenses, since the licence tournaments run until the Olympics begin. Preparations for the Olympics are being made at the highest level of government within the organizational committee led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In particular, the following steps have been taken to implement the committee’s decisions. With the help and thanks to your decisions in the preparation and approval of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016, expenditures were provided for the preparation and implementation of the 249.9 million roubles Olympic Games, namely: 63.5 million for the training and training sessions of the final stage of the training of athletes, candidates for the national team; 10.3 million for the acquisition of special inventory, special form, special form; 29.6 million for the provision of accommodation for athletes, trainers, crossovers, living, age, transportation services, etc.; 2 million for the informational education of the preparation of events, meetings and the participation of the national team in the Summer Olympic Games; 144 million for the payment of money to the three-stars. The State. The Cabinet of Ministers decrees that the winner of the Olympics will receive $150,000 for gold, $85,000 for silver, and $55,000 for the bronze medal. For comparison, the government of Russia has awarded a gold medal at the Rio de Janeiro for the Russian athletes of four million rubles or about $58,000. In 2015, a total of 14 million dollars and a sports form totaling nearly 5 million dollars will be purchased for Ukraine’s national team. The government's February 4, 2016, decision doubled the rewards for athletes and coaches, including sports performances at world and European championships. The government also established the National Olympic Training Center for Art Gymnastics. In order to quickly address the current organizational issues of Minmolodysport, the Olympic training headquarters was also established, which was headed by the President of the National Olympic Committee, Sergey Nazarovich Bubka, and I, as minister of youth and sports. I'll say that at the first government meeting, we, together with the government and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Groissman, talked about another organizational committee being held shortly to prepare for the Olympic Games, which will take place in the near future. To concentrate available resources in Ukraine, the approved list of athletes who are included in the number of candidates for summer Olympic games is 525 out of 27 sports, including an elite group of 119 out of 19 sports, namely boxing, fighting, heavy athletics, bicycles, rowing, gymnastics, judo, light athletics, swimming, synchronized swimming, water jumping, archery, ball shooting, modern petting, biatlon, fencing. The Ministry also has an expert council on the training and participation of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympic Games. The board includes leading sports professionals, trainers, officials, and scientists. The Council regularly adjusts the goals and individual plans for training athletes to participate in the games. In line with the recommendation of the expert board of our research institute, with the federations of sports and major coaches, an optimal timetable for the trip and stay of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympic village has been set in motion before the start of the summer Olympic games. In each type of specificity, specific terms are defined by the trainer’s composition depending on the time they consider optimal to ensure that athletes are ready for appropriate acclimatization and adaptation. The competition will begin on August 6. Ukrainian athletes will start visiting the Olympic village in just a few stages. For example, July 18th -- swimming, then July 24th -- rowing, sports gymnastics and so on. Most tickets have already been ordered in advance, and the corresponding funds are provided in the National Budget for the National Olympic Committee. Today, the organization of our congregation is following the plan and without complications. I would also like to point out that all these achievements cannot be achieved without a normal interaction with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to express my gratitude separately to the head of the Committee on Youth, Physical Culture, Tourism, Sports, Arthur Palace, who was able to establish fruitful cooperation with the Ministry. I'd like to thank all the members of the committee who join it, it's not very big, but these national MPs who are there, they're really in pain for the sport and they're willing to support the overall sports sector. Together, we kept the situation in the sports and youth sphere in quite a difficult time for the country. I have no doubt that you and I will do even more good for our athletes and Ukrainian youths. It was a pleasure to hear words yesterday about the hand of friendship extended by one of the Denis Silantiev factions that did not form part of the coalition. Persuaded, sport outside politics, youth outside politics, is our national acquisition that we must develop together and move forward together. I would like to thank Mayor Kyiv Vitalia Klitschka, President of NOK Sergey Bubke for working together to resolve the housing issue for our main Olympic hope – Jean Bolognauk, Oleg Vernyev and Igor Radivilov. At the time, I would like to contact local authorities, city mayors, and district administrations. Today, the issue of improving living conditions, material and living conditions for our leading athletes in the country, European and world champions, and the participants in the future Rio Olympics, who live and train in your areas. I ask each one of you to resolve this question. And even today, we have a pleasant experience: yesterday we became the champion of Europe, one of our heavyweight athletes. We can welcome him here. And what I'm saying is that our athletes, our coaches, are doing everything they can to make the Ukrainian flag, the flag rises in all the countries of the world, our anthem, were, were developing patriotism in Ukraine. Thank you, Ukrainian coaches! Thank you to the Ukrainian athletes! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Igor. And thank you for keeping the schedule and the economy of our time. And I invite you to speak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Vladimir Vladimirovich Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u4	Good afternoon. I would like to thank the Supreme Council very much for listening to the situation in the Ministry of Infrastructure. And thank the Prime Minister separately for this proposal: to tell the short-term legislature what is happening to us. So, if you'll excuse me, your point is a short presentation. In our belief, the Ministry of Infrastructure can become the very locomotive that will lead the Ukrainian economy forward, because an effective Ukrainian railway, seaports, aviation are the industries that are loading other sectors of the Ukrainian industry. Moreover, high - quality automobiles launch the market and add at least 5 percent of GDP per year. So today's key issues are working together with the European Union to update Ukraine's transport strategy. The second is cooperation with the World Bank on Ukraine's logistics strategy programme. We want to have a very clear, progressive twofold plan, which is exactly what we need to do in every field. Moreover, it has traditionally been that the railway works separately, and the seaports work separately. We want to balance the manufacturer and the whole production chain together, it's simple, it's clear and it's easy. The key question in these two points and the functioning of Ukraine's modern infrastructure is the creation of a so-called "smart infrastructure". These are electronic systems, electronic services that connect all sectors into one whole. A customer, a businessman, a normal taxpayer, or an entrepreneur can obtain all services by means of a computer without encountering a customs officer without contacting the freight forwarders. He just orders his own product or buys a ticket across the street, starting with the train, the plane, the bus, and so on, just like it does in the entire civilized world. What's done. New transport corridors in Russia. We're experiencing a Russian blockade right now. The Ministry of Infrastructure has its hand on the pulse. We are officially involved in the Silk Road initiative of the People's Republic of China, and we are now resolving all technical issues for the official and graphic promotion of trains and other modes of transport. The first train had already been launched, and technical logistics had been completed. We are now working on another forward-looking approach – the EU countries through Ukraine, through the Black Sea to the Gulf countries, first of all Iran. We're preparing a memorandum for signing with one of China's largest construction investors, primarily the development of technical and economic justifications, a high-speed rail passenger connection towards Kiev-Liviv-Warsaw-Berlin, and towards Kiev-Odess, the next extension to Crimea when Crimea returns to Ukraine. What has been done for today? We've significantly improved the efficiency of state-owned enterprises, we've reduced the costs and lost the Cruise Railroads, the Borispil DP for the first time in a few years in a row has become profitable. We are pleased with the performance of the state-owned enterprise Krašta. In total, in the 15th year, the IIA company exceeded the 2015 plan by 15 percent against the budget. We are pleased that it was the Ministry of Infrastructure that was number one by the number of financial plans submitted for January 1st, 16th. As a reminder, financial plans have always been made in the second half of the year, and they were approved at the end of the year, which did not lead to investment in the sector. The Crucifixion. And I'd like not to stop at what was wrong, but what was done and what needed to be done. We've approved a public stock company, we've approved the composition of the board of supervisors, the audit committee of the Pat "UZ". A draft Railway Law was approved, which radically reforms the sector itself. In view of the new government's accession to its mandate, these bills will now be revoked and we want to go to independent sites, including the Ministry, ready to do so in a parliamentary square, to involve all parties in order to get this bill worked out and voted on by the Supreme Council without delay. In fact, a bill on rail transport, a bill on rail transport. Oh, I'm sorry. Work? I think in this case, we're up to a month, and we're ready. A bill on the creation of the State Road Fund. We're working on understanding inside the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Council, we are. Clear link: No road fund — no roads. It's an illusion that with direct budget funding we can fix anything. Thank you. These two are the following laws, which are actually the key ones. Ukraine's draft Rail Transport Act aligns the EU rail transport market with EU legislation, liberalises the market and contributes to its development, as well as to the upgrading of infrastructure and rolling stock. And a draft Ukrainian Law on State regulation in the field of transport, which will create a National Transport Regulatory Commission for State tariff regulation. And he's actually going to drop all charges. I'll explain it to you separately, if you don't mind. These are the regulatory requirements of the EU. As for ports and inland waterways. We've initiated exclusions of state-owned styvedor companies, which are 13 from the list of non-privatizationists. We think that actually an effective path is a concession or privatization of state-run stymiedors. A memorandum was developed on the involvement of investment companies such as Cargill, Souffle, Arcelor Mittal. We're already seeing substantial investment from Cargill in South Port, where 100 million investments went through last year. What's important is the following draft laws, first of all, on inland water transport. Today we also work with foreign, Ukrainian experts on the Ukrainian Act on Concession, which will facilitate investment in the maritime and rail sectors. Road farm. This is a traditional problem in many countries: stupid roads and roads. We're going to very much expect that the Ministry's work will make the infrastructure disappear, both first and first. What we're doing is we're decentralizing the entire "Stealstododor." We put in heavy road control, we put in quality control so that everyone who does the work doesn't control themselves, as it used to be today. We've actually put in an experiment to get a fraction of the money from the extra customs revenue to build roads. Both the Lviv region and the western areas of Ukraine have already experienced the benefits of this. Road repair plan 2016 In the 16th year, Kravutodore has 31.5 billion dollars in it, but it's 11.9 billion dollars in debt payments over the past year. The planned amount of funding for the road sector is about 20 billion dollars, but we need to make it clear that only 6.5 billion dollars are coming from the state budget, and all the rest is external sources, loans, restructuring. Reforms that matter. Bill. We need to do this. This is to pay all the costs paid by motorists to the trust fund and to provide transparent funding for the state and local roads of the road fund. We suggest that some of these costs be directed to the roads of national importance, and everyone else decides the municipal authorities, where the roads that are being repaired, are built in what quality. It's a car. It's an electric transport. Last year the government experiment confirmed its viability. On the basis of the subsidies granted to upgrade the tram park, four cities in Ukraine bought 16 trams, and we hope that this experiment will continue. At the same time, we are working on legalizing a series of important things, such as passenger transport in Ukraine. Questions such as taxi transport. A transparent system of licensing for freight transport. You can see here, in fact, these bills, which have already been drafted by the Ministry, will be further developed in connection with the approval of the new government and will be submitted to the Supreme Council as soon as possible. Aviation. We've approved a new order for the granting of airline rights. A treaty has been signed, and it has become valid for the open heavens with the United States of America. As an experiment, the open air at the airports of Lviv and Odessa was introduced. A project for a targeted airport development programme was developed by 2023. It's about a monopoly. I'd like to say that it's because of the ministry's work on the Ukrainian market that another carrier has come up with this Atlasjet, it's already been working since last year. We're willing to contribute as much as possible. Borispol Airport finished its business with profit. By post. We started the Crucifixion Corporation. I hope that this year's work will be intensified and we'll get a public stock company. Transport security is a special consideration because unfortunately, more citizens are killed on our roads than during the war. A single security service has been created on the transport side, Ukratrans Security. A package of security bills has been developed for different modes of transport, taking into account EU standards. The next slide, you see what kind of bills we're proposing to you. As far as the Ministry is concerned. The Ministry’s management has been updated by 60 percent, and an electronic documenting and electronic management system is in place. This year we want to launch an ERR system that will unite all our state-owned enterprises into a single joint venture with the Ministry. It's an interactive ministry site. "Discovered data," we're the leader in the clear. Open data of any money that leads the country forward. I believe that the independent human resources policy itself, it is the result that we have today, that the ministry, indeed, transparent, the decisions are consistent, the programs are carried out step by step. 16th-year plans. "The Crucifixion." Delimitation of economic functions and functions of government. The formation of the PAT "UZ" holding structure. The formation of a new vertical for government authorities to operate rail transport. Water transport. Conducting the second stage of deregulation in ports. Continue the process of private investment in ports. The key is the question of reforming the administrations of the seaports and the maritime sector itself, introducing better world practices as it should be around the world and happening around the world. Honey. This is the adoption of the Road Fund Bill. Passing the roads of local importance, technology, and resources into place. Implementation of independent control of the quality of road repairs, which will make it impossible to abuse which were common in this area. Automobile. Adoption of a bill on the liberalisation of autotransports. The progressive introduction of European legislation. A set of Ukratrans security inspectors should be solely on a competitive basis under the best rules we've made when hiring people into the new police force. Aviation. The key turning point is the signing of the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area with the European Union. We're breaking this up at all our meetings with Brussels. And we believe that Brussels should keep its promise to Ukraine two years ago. Now it's our airline. The State Service, the Aerouch, are being audited by the ISAO. We have adopted the State Airport Development Programme by 2023, which will allow us to focus our forces on key regional and local airports. And, of course, about privatizing Crucifixion and creating centres for access to administrative, financial and postal services on the basis of Crucifixion all over Ukraine, because it's actually Krašta that has a unique network that has no other structure that is branched out in the smallest cities and villages. I've got everything today. I look forward to a fruitful dialogue with the Supreme Council. For my part, I commit, after forming a ministry team, to spend at least a few days in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council with each deputy, explaining the logic of our actions. We have no schemes, we have no secret intentions, we really want to build a successful Ukraine, and so that the Ministry of Infrastructure is the engine of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so that there will be no discussion on questions, I ask everyone to prepare for the recording, to take up jobs. I remind you that one minute is asked, and two minutes is answered, according to the National MPs. Prepared? I ask you to record oral and written questions from MP factions and groups. Please record. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Sažko Sergei, 59th constituency. Question of fuel and energy Minister Igor Nasalyku. Since you are the Minister of Energy, I would like to hear what you will do to improve energy security. Not what the previous minister did: shut down the mines. Our energy security fits, well, it's a failure. The second question is the closure of the Kurakhovska TF, which is like a city-based enterprise, Kurakhovska TF. And third. After we put in the third energy package? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u7	Thank you for asking, it's interesting. And first of all, I would like to say, using the moment that the first challenge for the government is probably to raise tariffs on May 1. We talked to some factions yesterday, and I'd like to talk to you in the hall today, and I'd like to make a request to you that we're going to consider the structure of the tariffs that we've been talking about for so long that they're not transparent. And we've already talked to BUTO, Julia Volodymyrna will be herself present at this conference. I'd like to give my representatives Self-Help, the Radical Party, the Opposition Block, of course, the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block. NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, representatives of the International Monetary Fund, and we would like to take a look at the transparency of tariff formation in our country. That's the first question. Second, I am more convinced that coal issues are extremely complex and not only in Volinsky, but we will definitely work on the tenth mine, Mr. Igor, we will work. But on Saturday, I want to meet, first of all, my colleagues, who I worked with on the third, fourth call, the heads of the coal industry to discuss issues, first of all, with them in the coal sector. And by the coal development program, we're going to look at those mines that we can get into zero balance in six, twelve months, we're definitely going to pull them up and make them, and we're going to develop this part of the coal sector. Where we can't, of course, preserve, but agree with the professions of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u8	Thank you. Head Mikhailo Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u9	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. I want to ask you if your policy will be different from the previous Minister of Finance, Jaresko and Yatzenuk, who aimed to cut off all social benefits, primarily education and medicine. How about the question of solving vocational and technical schools that we voted in Parliament, but unfortunately this bill was made by the President? Are you prepared to find funds for the financing of vocational and technical schools, including more than 20 billion that are now lacking in medicine? Unfortunately, we are now seeing a major mass closure of medical and educational institutions. This is of great concern to people. Including me as a senior deputy who has such problems in his district where hospitals are closing down, we're actually in the Ternopil area today forecasting up to 180 schools to reorganize and close, and that's a challenge to society. People lose their jobs without the last chance to feed their loved ones and loved ones, and this is a challenge. So I'm asking you to come up with a way to find funding for how to fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. As far as politics is concerned, I want to say that there will be no radical change and there will be no change. The point is, there has to be a certain sequence. But what I'm going to focus on to make the changes, they're more systemic. What did we see on CTU? That's what, in principle, I think the intentions were right, but as it was implemented, it created some pretty serious problems. So I think it's a major challenge for me, first of all, right now to focus on the problems with CTU and solve it systematically. As you know, there was a problem with the funding being transferred to local budgets, and the institutions themselves remained, in principle, at the central level. So we had to pay local budgets for what they're basically not affecting. That's why we need to approach it systematically. I'll be with my colleague, the Minister of Education and Science, in the near future, and we'll offer this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u11	Thank you. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u12	Good afternoon. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, please pass the word to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u13	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. I have a question for the Minister of Ecology of Ostap Semerak. In the end, we have a minister, and we're very pleased to have him. And that's why I'd like to ask you the first question. We know very well that the whole world, the whole of Ukraine, is doing organic fertilizer emissions, organics to bring into the fields and produce large crops. But the environmental service was very different. They check the farms, there's not much left, and millions of fines they give, they have pocket companies they have to make for each cow's release of manure and all that. I think it's time to change this mess, and you, as the new minister of ecology, should really help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. A respected colleague is, in fact, no longer a question, but a desire to form a new approach to public policy in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. I agree with you that, unfortunately, the ministry hasn't had proper leadership lately. This was due to various circumstances. We're going to focus on the formation of new approaches, and I'm very hopeful that your faction and the Committee of the Supreme Council, the Environmental Committee, will join in this work, in shaping new approaches and new principles. In the meantime, I'd like to take this opportunity to inform you that in these days, we have focused primarily on the actions and decisions that need to be taken to prepare and celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl station crash. I'll have a visit there tomorrow. And by the way, we're taking action. More specifically, the plant protection products that you've asked yourself about are also important in the Chernobyl solution complex, where it's forbidden to apply it, but unfortunately, science has gone so far as we should go back to this issue. So thank you for your support, and I look forward to working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Victoria Voititzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u16	Good afternoon! Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help. I have a question for two ministers. The first is to the Minister of Finance and it refers to the fate of the leadership of the DFS. As you know, during 2015 the management of the DFS actually sabotaged more than 10 billion dollars of rent from the Ukranafta government budget. And accordingly, we would like to see strong action by the head of Minfin to change today's leadership. I would like to hear an opinion on this subject. And I also have a question for Mr. Nasalik, my former committee colleague, Minister of Energy. Your first steps, five, at least, what do you plan to do as head of the Ministry, what do you promise to show people within a hundred days? And what is your view of the Naftogazu reform? And of course, the question of the third energy package and the electricity market bill, what's its fate, are you going to carry it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u17	Thank you, Vic, for asking. Well, about decisive measures. Yes, they will be, you can be sure of that. But first I want to figure out, well, actually, what's going on in this area. As you know, that's not the only problem. The one they're talking about in connection with the DFS, I need to appreciate that, right? And then I'm going to propose a solution. If there are any really serious problems, there will be strong proposals. And what I'm saying is that my principle position, which, as Minister, I am in charge of this area, is my responsibility, is my political responsibility. And that's why I won't allow any organ -- the DFS, I don't want to focus on it -- to have it. I've been having trouble with this, yeah. So I'm going to do as much as I can so that what I'm saying, my political position, it's strengthened by the concrete actions of the authorities that are in my midst. Coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u18	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Victoria. And of course, the foundation of the Ministry's work is to put in place the two laws that we've drawn up, one we've put in place, the gas market, and the other we've adopted in the first reading, the Law on the Energy Market. The only problem is that the government offered and the government changed, and we have to call it off. And to you, as a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, there is a request that, until the government has passed this law, we will work together with the deputies and the MPs from the Fuel and Energy Committee to bring them up for consideration by the Supreme Council. The only problem is in both the first and the second: in the formation of the gas market, and the electricity market, which is an undeveloped technical part. So today, I've sent out a modular scheme for all of us in the electricity market. And of course, a broad group will be created, including the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with whom we work closely together to develop a technical scheme and propose to implement it. Then the market will work. One of the steps that is problematic and which is constantly sounding in the hall is that we have to go to the coal market to take this issue off once and for all to make this market transparent and understandable not only in the energy sector, but also in the sphere of society that is watching our steps. I fully agree with you, and I hope for the support of the government that we need to completely restructure the Naftogaz of Ukraine as an incomprehensible structure in the administration. And in addition, in our Coalition Agreement, which we signed, one of the points is the envisaged restructuring of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. And I think the committee is going to help me deal with this problem. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u20	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Unfortunately, we don't have an appointed minister of health today, so I would like to pay attention, first of all, to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, to the problem of half a million people suffering from renal insufficiency. We spend more than 1 billion dollars a year on the treatment of these people by the so - called hemodialysis method, but only 20 percent of the sick Ukrainians are able to receive treatment at a public expense. This is because the hemodialysis market has been run by the so - called pharmaceutical mafia, and in the last 10 years, all tenders have won only two major groups of companies. Moreover, the price of this hemodialysis is twice that of European countries. That's why I'm paying attention to the Prime Minister, the entire government. And I think that by working together we can no longer allow ourselves to be enriched by the health of our Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u21	I thank you for asking or more specifically for describing the problem. My conviction is that we need to create absolute transparency, including in health matters, we are ready, open to proposals that can regulate the problem. No monopolies can exist when it comes to human health. This is true, including the price of medicines, for us to realize and put a dot on this question. I want to assure you that if there is a decision that can be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that will affect the lower prices of medicines, we will. But I would also like to pay attention if legislative support is needed here, we will count on the Ukrainian Parliament to adopt this decision, I believe it, because this Parliament is making very, very often the right decisions that serve the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Oleg Kuprienko gives the floor to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday's election of Mr. Groysman as Prime Minister and Government was the result of President Dustenk's conspiracy to "carts" and regionals. That's exactly how there is a coalition in Parliament today, so it's strange to expect from this government some radical change, and more than that, just one minister said there would be no radical change. This government, it's not just a government as a result of a conspiracies of regionals and thugs, it's an offshore government. In particular, Finance Minister Alexander Daniluk has two offshore companies that have not registered in his declaration as a public official, not declared profits from these companies. President Poshenko, Prime Minister Groissman, knows that Danieluk has offshore, yet he has been appointed. I demand that the Minister of Finance of Daniluk be resigned at the time of the investigation, from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to investigate the offshore companies of the Minister of Finance. I demand that Parliament investigate the offshore scandals of President Dustenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u24	All I have is a line. All I have is a line. I fully support that every minister must be absolutely open, public and law-abiding. It's very important. And I think the minister of finance is supposed to prove, and he was giving an explanation on this point that he once actually owned, and he has experience working abroad, that's true. But now there's nothing like it. And that's his personal responsibility. I think it should be absolutely open and public. And as for that, there were a few questions here about what I was thinking, or what I knew, so much that we have a microphone, that you look at me and you understand what I know or what I don't know. You didn't say anything new today. They took the labels and hung them. Well, I respect your opinion. And I want to assure you that this government has made every effort to ensure that Ukrainian society is open, effective and honest in its actions. I urge you to help, not by speaking, but by supporting, by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexei Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u26	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Question to my ex-colleague of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Mr. Nasalik. Mr. Nasalik, I would like to quote your predecessor, Mr. Demchikin, who, in his last interview, actually said the sentence to the previous government and actually said what the Fatherland faction had done in the coalition about the tariffs. He said, in the original language, "I think the price in the future should be marketable. But the question is, when does it have to be open? I repeat, without access to capital, without the possibility of reforming energy efficiency, the tariffs are not raising sharply. It takes more than one, not two, not even three years, unfortunately." So, comment on your tariff policy and also what are you going to do with being an energy ombudsman? That's the protection of the rights of consumers, of the small, small Ukrainians and of the shallow, medium-sized business that suffers from this gender policy. And your plans for the decarbonization of the sector and the continuous development of renewable energy sources. This is what the Fatherland faction will work on in a constructive pro-European opposition and control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u27	Thank you so much for asking. Today, the question is usually asked by members of the Fuel Energy Committee of different factions. And we have, of course, discussed these issues on a number of occasions. As far as tariffs are concerned. I read this interview, Mr. Demchikin, where he wrote 50 by 50. Yeah? If I'm not mistaken, that's what I'm talking about. I think cooperation, we're going to work with him at least on the programs he worked before this to keep the trend where there's a plus and close where there are minuses. So once again, since you're talking on tariffs, I know the position of the Fatherland faction on this issue. On Monday at 14 p.m., we are having a meeting, including Julia Volodymyrovna, who agreed to attend this meeting, where we will be considering the direct tariffs, where an expert environment will be invited, where a national regulator will be invited, the NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine. And I think we're going to do an open process. The more open the process, the more it will be understood; the more it will be understood, the better it will be before it is realized. As far as consumers are concerned. I'm actively working on it. There is Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, who works to protect consumer rights. By the way, he will also be present at 2 p.m. on Monday to review the tariffs. I think it's going to be very helpful to self-help, directly to Mrs. Alona, who's involved in the infrastructure committee. So we need to produce a common understanding system where the consumer needs to understand what he's paying for and the state needs to understand how he's using his resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u28	Vasile Golovajev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u29	Good day to you all. Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. I have more than a question, but a wish for Mr. Zubko. Everyone knows today that the GASKI are opening up on the ground. Unfortunately, however, the last issue is assigned to Kiev. And so that these GASKIs, who don't just become postmen on the ground, when the documents are sent and Kiev doesn't have any answers: there's no comma there, there's no point there. I mean, unfortunately, such cases have already taken place, and as if we were addressing your Ministry of Thank you, the matter has been resolved. But I would like you to take this issue under strict control. And once again, I will repeat that the GASKI will not become local, just postmen between cities and Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I can only thank you for the active participation of the national MPs. Indeed, this is an important question today and I would like to see an accelerated transmission at all. Because right now we're expecting the city of Kiev to take power, the city of Lviv will finally come together and apply for such powers, as well as other cities that are now waiting for the possibility of a new instrument for investment. So thank you again for the support and cooperation that will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u31	Sergey Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u32	Question to the Prime Minister. A question from a man recognized by Russia who gave the arms of Hope to Savechenko to fight, who stood and defended our borders. A man who still doesn't have a participant in combat, like hundreds like me who have been there. To what time will the Deputy Secretary of Defense go to bed, who has been "crushing" the arrests of volunteers and other military personnel in the ATO zone, who has been "crushing" the scrap of metal scrap? Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to consider this a question of my own and I'd like you to conduct an investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u33	Thank you for your information. We will definitely check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u34	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u35	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block, Mariupol. I have two questions, first question from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Please tell me, we have listened carefully to your statement on the money spent on road repairs. The road situation is truly catastrophic. The numbers are, unfortunately, no. We have this road that connects Mariupol, the only one we'll talk about, yes, the living artery that connects Mariupol to the great earth, is the road Mariupol-Berdjansk-Tokmak-Zaporozhye. When is she finally going to be okay? The calls were, the promises were, who had not yet told us that they would eventually bring her back to normal. Sit down, after all, try to follow her. Today it's torture, it's mythical for the people who are on this road. I remind you, the only artery. And second question to the Minister of Social Policy. Please tell me, we've talked a lot about investments, we're already a country. About the subsidies, I'm sorry. Subsidies have become a country. Please tell me there are requests that we have prepared when we decide on the issue of charging subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u36	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u37	When are we finally going to decide on the issue of charging subsidies, not on the fact that the salary is accrued, but on the fact that the salary received is paid? 2.5 billion wages. Well, what difference does it make to the people he's being charged, he doesn't actually have money in his pocket?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Matthews. As for the road to Mariupol. I was there myself, this year the government allocated 30 million dollars to repair it, that's not enough. We hope that, at the end of the restructuring of the debts of Ukraine planned for this year, we will have additional funds that we will focus primarily on the roads of eastern Ukraine. Thank you. This year, we have to start our first work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u39	Victoria Birds, please. Did you finish your answer or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u40	Mr. Matvienkov, I thank you for the question regarding the mechanism for the receipt of subsidies. Starting in 2015 with amendments to Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 848 as early as 1995, the total income of households assigned to the subsidy takes into account the amount of income that people receive without taking into account the taxes on salaries, i.e. the net wage they receive. That is, your proposal to make a clean income has been taken into account a year ago. I'm asking you to come up, I'll show you the relevant normative documents. As far as your questions are concerned, I promise to get to know them and give you the legal answer in due course and terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u42	Victoria Bird, non-freakable. Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! I had a question for the Minister of Justice, who, unfortunately, is not here today, so I ask you to consider it an official request to him and to comment on the deputies. We are all now fighting to create an independent judicial system and to ensure fair justice. At the same time, we know that one element of such an independent judicial system is an independent judicial expertise institute. The extent to which judicial experts will be independent depends, in fact, on the judicial decisions taken on the basis of the findings of the judicial experts. To date, some misunderstanding is happening with forensic institutions that are subject to the Ministry of Justice itself. Because somehow the contracts of the heads of these judicial experts. The institutions were extended for only one month. I have a question in line with the Minister of Justice, what are the plans in this direction? Why doesn't the contract continue in a normal way, but only.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u43	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u44	Why the chosen policy of extending contracts for one month doesn't it mean that someone wants to interfere with and control the activities of judicial experts, and who is actually the responsible person in the Ministry of Justice exactly?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u45	Ten more seconds, try to get in at the time of departure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u46	Who is the responsible person in the Ministry of Justice who controls the judicial expert bodies and currently decides to extend the contracts for just one month? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u47	Thank you for asking, Victoria. In fact, today, reforms in the Ministry of Justice have already been proposed to reform the system of enforcement of court decisions. And now we're preparing the concept that we're going to propose and we're going to propose to the National Deputies for the reform of the system of expertise. I think that's what caused the delay in the extension of contracts, because the new structure and the new system will also need personnel changes in this issue. We'll be happy to give you the results of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u48	Alexander Briginetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u49	Good health. I have a question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. To the west of Donetsk and to Donetsk, it is known that the reception of Ukrainian television channels is very complicated. The Ministry of Information Policy initiated the construction at the "X" point of the 180-meter tower for the increased reception of Ukrainian television channels in Donetsk and around. Even a few months ago, there was a decision by Kabmin to build such a building. I'll let you know that this was order number 4595 after 1 ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Will the Ministry of Finance carry out this commission, and will the money finally be allocated for the construction of this 180-meter television? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u50	Is anyone answering?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Well, it's hard for me to give a specific answer right now. I'm going to write down the question, and I'm going to come back to you, so I'm going to give you some specific information, and I'm going to have to get a little bit of that figured out. I would also like to respond to Mr. Lášk, the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Lášk. I'll say the following, so you know my position, so I've already explained it publicly, I can say it again. But the main thing I want to say is that I'm not a corrupter. I didn't do anything. For everything. I've never taken any bribes or any other gain. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not an offshore, yeah, it's a first. Secondly, I hate corruption, I hate corruption with all my fibers of my soul, and I hate corruption in a lot of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u52	Well, let me repeat the word "offshore" every second. I say again, I'm against it. And many in this room have understood and know that I take a very active part in the development of anti-corruption legislation and electronic declaration is my principle position. I don't have an Offshore, I don't have an Offshore. [[B in m in s a l in]] Third paragraph, third paragraph, third paragraph. I'm sorry. I've worked in the business for most of my life, and I've done it abroad, and I've done it transparently and cleanly. Since 2010, when I came here, I haven't done business, I haven't done business. I've been working all my time, yeah, working for the state, and it's been very serious, by the way, yeah, in my financial position. Maybe you don't care, and that's me. I'm worried and worried about my family. So I don't have any offshores, I don't have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u53	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u54	You just can't find them. I just want there to be an understanding right now. I mean, if you want to put a vote on taking me out of office, I support that. I'm ready, but it's a challenge for me. I wouldn't even go into this government, but when this situation comes up, you're a click to me. I see my role in supporting this government so that the Ministry of Finance is a platform to support this government and its commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u55	Please, Ruslan Sidorovich. Sidorovich Ruslan. Passes the word Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, you didn't listen very carefully to me yesterday when I came out of the rostrum, you were distracted by the people's deputies. I hope that colleagues will no longer engage in such shameful practices. So I'm going to tell you exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u57	I can repeat what you said yesterday. Would you like that? I can repeat what you said yesterday. I listened to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u58	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Thank you. But I want to take another look at the steps that need to be taken now for the real reform of customs. First of all, these are technical controls. Secondly, it's associated with foreign companies monitoring. Thirdly, this is the regulation of clear rules and protocols of action for customs officials when determining the customs value. Fourthly, you've got an automated DFS application. It's already there, it's working. I'm asking you and I'm asking the Minister of Finance to personally provide for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u59	Thank you. I heard yesterday that you asked me questions, including the risk management system. But what I'm saying is there's one problem, this little nuance: this risk management system is managed manually. That's what the problem is. And what I'm talking about is that it has to be automated, we have to do everything we can to keep the border closed, I mean from the point of view of smuggling and everything else, the customs value, the proper care of the goods, so it has to be, and so it doesn't have to be influenced by the customs. As soon as they start to influence it, they start to make money on it. And I definitely don't support that this system that works right now is effective. We need to change it, and we will change it, including in the complex and with technical measures, including in cooperation with colleagues with whom we can share a border. So yesterday I heard everything well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u60	For my part, I view this as my obligation. I mean, I support everything that's been said, and I'm going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u61	Helen Masorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u62	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, honourable ministers, thank you so much for being so responsible today in full Parliament, it's a good tradition, hopefully it will continue. And frankly, I still wanted to thank your predecessors very much, the previous cabinet of ministers. There were a lot of people who were involved with the word "reforms," those are people who came to Parliament, who came to the government from business, and I'm very sorry that we don't see Natalie Jaresko or Andrija Pivovarsky here right now. I hope that the deputy minister of the economy will be saved: Natala Mikolska, Max Nephrodov, and this course, which was started on non-popular things, will continue. Thank you to your predecessors. And I hope that the next government will not forget their achievements but will continue them. And the second thing. Vladimir Borisovich, the government's activity programme was distributed yesterday, apparently there was no time for ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u64	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u65	There was no time to work on it. But I would very much like to see a document that provides for concrete steps and deadlines. Can we expect such things so that we can understand when fundamental reforms, how they will take place, what the government plans to do first and what steps will be taken? Finally to Minister Reva and Minister Omelyan. When will the reform of the monetaryization of the benefits end? An important thing to go on today. Questions from my colleague Vitali Corchik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the government that was approved yesterday and the composition of the government, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will pay particular attention to the interaction with the Ukrainian Parliament and with the committees. In particular, I would like to emphasize that this composition of government, it is able to reform and make it not only on paper, but also enough people who work here have experience in the practical implementation of reforms. In fact, for various reasons, including personal ones, the two ministers you mentioned, they are not participating in the new government, even though they received proposals. But I want to assure you that the reformers' core, as in the Ministry of Economics -- and Max Nephrodus, and Julia Koval -- they're all still working, as are the cores of the Ministry of Finance, and so are other ministries. So we're not going to chase anyone away because someone's going to lose that idea. On the other hand, I also want to say that the government led by Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk, I worked with Arsenius Petrovich for 9 months in the 14th year, and I remember how it started when the State Treasury accounted for 180,000. This government in difficult times and personally Prime Minister Yatsenuk took on a huge responsibility for the country at that extremely difficult time. Now is also a very difficult time, and now is a very difficult time. I realize that he has made mistakes, and we will surely have mistakes because the one who does nothing is right. But what he has is my own personal respect, and I'm convinced that the steps he's taken to stabilize the situation, at unpopular pace, you have to have the rod to make those decisions. That's why we're going to interact, we're going to do it. All the better acquisitions that are, they will be preserved. Undoubtedly, we have to add new ideas, new powers, new energy to speed up the changes that we can make with you. And as for the interaction, excuse me for another 30 seconds, the interaction with the Ukrainian Parliament. I suggest maybe next week, if it's your will, that we gather committee leaders and ministers together. I'd like you to set up teams together to work out the right decisions. In addition, the government will create a special core to which a group of experts will enter, and we will present it for sure next week. Leading these experts, there is already a previous arrangement, John Miklasch. It will be a group of support for reforms that will moderate and assist in these matters. So I would like us to build this kind of interaction between the President, the Parliament, the government that would give us the opportunity to make better quick decisions. But I am deeply convinced that you need your political will and your support, and I think you have it, so that these decisions are approved. If we move fast, we can give a very good quality of decisions in six months and stabilize the situation, I'm sure. But you need your help — 226. I would very much like to take this very seriously. Thank you for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u67	Thank you. One more minute, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u68	I'm literally. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues in Parliament for the work we have done with you and we will continue the work that the Prime Minister has said. Second, Victoria, I had a meeting with Yulia Kovalov yesterday after the meeting of the working part of our first government meeting, where it was discussed, first, the continuation of reforms, second, priority. And today the subject with the other heads of the Ministry of Economics will be discussed in the same way. I think that the reform sequence, the final product is legislation, and then implementation is what we're going to do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u69	Thank you. The fisherman gives his word to Oksani Korczynski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u70	(One, two.) Praise the Cross! Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you. I'm speaking to you as a member of the Health Committee of the Supreme Council and as head of the OHMATDIT Volunteer Board, I ask you to call an urgent meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers today to call all the Deputy Minister of Health. Since you did not appoint a Minister of Health yesterday, I ask you to introduce yourself, Prime Minister, direct administration. To date, no hospital in the country has been treated for cancer. In 2015, volunteers won 350 million dollars for these drugs. No vial had children from all over the country! Today, in the Winnitsky region, in your homeland, in Cherkaszczina, children who have joined oncodipspanser in 15 years have been given a prescription for chemotherapy alone to need more than 200,000 bracelets. No vial of medicines is oncophageal and, including, oncophagus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that the question of the appointment of a health minister should be very balanced because in the health system, and I think that this is one of the most complex and ambitious systems, there are a lot of problems at all levels. Clearly, there is a need for special attention to be given to what you said: support for oncological children, including treatment. I want to say what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u72	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u73	I want to say that your question you asked is overwhelming, and we will consider it urgently. And the Deputy Minister of Health, acting, I think she's going to comment on this right now. As far as OHMATDIT is concerned. I made an appointment yesterday. We'll call a technical meeting. I want to get to the bottom of this: why is it so long that it takes to actually finish, and how long will it take? We will continue to make decisions. Because I think we need to put a dot on the question of OHMATDIT. And this point should be when we open the hospital. It's been built for so many years now that I think so many things have been built next to it that there is no power anymore. So we're going to take this very carefully and seriously and openly. We'll have the opportunity to finish, we'll do it. Please, Ministry of Finance. Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u74	First of all, I would also like to thank you for the support of the committee in that it is necessary to appoint a full - time minister quickly or to make a permanent appointment. Thank you. I also appeal to Mr. Prime Minister for this to take place in the coming days. As far as the OHMATDIT question is concerned. Mrs. Corchinska, you know the situation quite well. For now, Wednesday. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I'm answering the question. On Wednesday, you were at the appropriate meeting, and you know the situation very well. I am grateful that Minister Zubko has remained in office, and we are now working with this ministry on this issue. And when Mr. Groissman asks us what's going on and how the construction is going to continue after the change in the state-owned "Food." We'll give you all the information. As far as medicine is concerned. I note that the purchase took place at the end of 2015. At the moment, you know very well, and especially to your committee, that medicines are going to Ukraine: some of them have arrived and delivered, some of them have been shipped to medical institutions. Of course, it's not 100 percent equivalent. We're waiting for supplies. It's a process, it's been going on for days and months. So far we're in the supply process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u75	I would like to pay attention, and I would like to draw the attention of the Deputy Minister of Health that you have before you the National Deputy of Corchinska, not Mrs. Konczynska, this time. The second position is Monday, Tuesday, or next week — children cannot wait, and the disease is not happening anywhere. And if you haven't worked on it, tell me and admit it, and give it a chance to be resolved. And if not, then leave your position to those who can do it faster. And don't tell me there's medicine, and there's no medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u77	So I'd like to ask you to prepare the information in the incision of each hospital, where there is and where there is nothing. By the end of the day, please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. You know, any government is said to have a certain limit of trust, but it's probably larger than 12 hours. We elected the government 12 hours ago. And when we ask questions, I have a big request. [[th m in s a l i]] I have a big request: no screams. It's not a way of discussing it and it's not a way of solving questions when we're in the room showing behavior, when the answer comes, and we're breaking it off with shouts. That's why I urge all the deputies to behave in a dignified, European way and to make decisions with influence. As soon as the Prime Minister of Ukraine has given the order, and this commission will be carried out, I have no doubt. Dear colleagues, we still have one question to ask, one question we are coming up with. Please, who? Please, Graceman, one more minute, Prime Minister. I'll give you my word as promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u79	The assignment was given to Vice Prime Minister Rosenko, who will be working with the Ministry of Health by the end of the day. And we'll let you know by the end of the day where the situation is real and what needs to be done and when it will be done. Do we have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u80	Gregory Nemira conveys the word “Alexandri Kugel. ” That's the last question, society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u81	Mr. Prime Minister! There's a website in Ukraine where you can look at the rest of the drugs all over the country if you go to this site, practically all the clinics have zero drugs left over. Now I have a personal appeal to you. You know, the most corrupt business direction is tax and customs. Are you going to change and reform there, not the closed customs, but the transparent and the same transparent tax? And to the Minister of Transport, what I'm saying is that the Association of Employers and Foreigners is offering to build 100 kilometers of roads in our country, to show the cost on one condition that you're not going to build more expensive? If you use used oil on the railway, and you sell it on tenders, you'll get an extra $20 million. And if you don't create competition in your field, we're always like consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u82	Thank you. I'll answer these two questions. First. Yesterday, in my report, I made it absolutely clear that we are not going to accept smuggling, underpriced customs and shadow flows, I'm a government. So our task today, in tax and customs, will be closed for smuggling, I said that, and for "soldier" and "white" and "black" imports. White, I mean, you know, in coffee. So today, the point is that customs should have a transparent system that will allow you to fully assess and fill the Ukrainian budget. Because I don't understand when we have 80 billion dollars that the Pension Fund doesn't get today and it gets a direct grant from taxpayers. Why do we have to lose the same tens of billions on those payments that are absolutely legitimate and have to go to the Ukrainian budget? We're not going to put up with this. And I think we're completely allies here with you. Now it's about road construction. Also scheduled to meet with all the necessary organizations involved. But in advance, I can tell you that I am willing to do everything I can to make sure that 100 kilometers of roads are built in Ukraine. So please tell me where? Tell me when? And we'll provide you with everything to build 100 kilometers of roads. You. No, no, dear colleagues, listen carefully, listen carefully. Alexandra Volodymyrna, a colleague of ours, said that there was a decision about what. The federation will build. Ready to build 100 kilometers of roads for free, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Your time provided by the Question Rules is exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u84	That's why I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I've warned you we'll give it a long time, but at 11:30, there's a very important government action, so I'm going to call it an hour of questions to the government. And let's thank the government together for participating in our work and wish them fruitful, systematic work. I think we're going to make the cooperation format more effective and active. Thank you, good luck. And now, according to the Rules, we have read-out parliamentary requests, colleague. A huge number of them came and we must read them so that they can take action to get them to work. And I would like to invite you to read the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! A few questions have come up with the name of the President of Ukraine and, as you know, in order for us to address these requests to the President, we need to vote first in favour of the request. I am voting in favour of Igor Lucenka's request to the President of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of delay in fulfilling the obligation set out in article 106, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the need for an immediate appointment of half of the membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. We need 150 votes. Please put to the vote. [[11:24:11]] For-78 Request denied. I want to point out that there is no Igor Lucenka himself in the session room who directed this request, and to urge a colleague to discipline, at least in the vote for his own application. I'm asking for the vote to confirm Igor Skin to the President of Ukraine about the corruption and illegal conduct of the management of the State Bank Savings Bank in granting a loan without mortgage and guarantees in 2014 in the amount of 400 million dollars to the private lysing company Delta Lizing. Please confirm. [[11:24:58]] For-89 You didn't ask the same question. I want to point out that there is also no national MP who asked this question. I support Mustafa Nayem's request to the President of Ukraine for a meeting with Igor Kolomayski on February 20-21. Please. A colleague sent this request. May I have your support, please? [[11:25:33]] For-76 I also want to point out that Mustafa himself is not in the session room either. The request did not get the required number of votes to vote in favour of it. I am in favour of Oleg Petrenko's request to the President of Ukraine to provide guarantees of social protection for members of the voluntary battalions who defended independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and participated directly in the ATO zone. Please bet on support. [[11:26:13]] Z-91 Unfortunately, I did not request the required number of votes. Nor can we direct him to the President. I support the request of Sergey Visatsky to the President of Ukraine for the award of the volunteers of the international community InfoNapalm. Stand up, please. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[11:26:40]] For-86 Unfortunately, he did not get the required number of votes. And I would like to support the request of Mr. Jury-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "no-publishment" fine and for the removal of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, by which illegal pension privileges have been established for former national deputies of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, and members of their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the resignation of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of pensions for these persons. I'm betting on confirmation. [[11:27:31]] For-86 Unfortunately, dear colleagues, the request also did not get the required number of votes so that we could go to the President's vote. And that's why we don't accept that question. I am asking for confirmation of the request of the Group of People's Deputies (Vilkula, Rabinovich and others, 25 deputies of everything) to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the missile-space sector of Ukraine and the settlement of the situation surrounding the "Southern" KGB of the name of Yangel: changes to the statute of this enterprise and the forced and unfounded release of Degtharov from the post of general designer, the Director-General. Please be supportive. [[11:28:25]] For-78 Unfortunately, dear colleagues, the request did not raise enough votes to allow us to vote in favour of sending it to the President. I am asking for confirmation from a group of national deputies (Lapina, Timoshenko, and others). All 24 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the award of the 24th Idar Volunteer Battalion for Courage, the 3rd degree medals for the Ukrainian military service and the Fatherland Defender. It's a very important question. I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this request. Please. [[11:29:10]] For-83 Unfortunately, he did not get the required number of votes. We have two more requests for confirmation to the President of Ukraine, and after that, I will be making inquiries. But I would like to emphasize to my colleagues that Friday is a working day when we have important votes, when we have to discuss drafts, and also to confirm the questions that the colleagues themselves have made, and I'm sorry that today we don't even get 150 votes for confirmation, but maybe today will be a lesson for us all to learn that Friday is a working day. I am asking for confirmation from the Group of People's Deputies (Palatno, Romanov, Sporis) to the President of Ukraine to overcome the bureaucratic burden of assigning the honorary title of Ukraine "Mother Hero" to women who have given birth and raised up to the eight-year-old age of five and more children. I'm asking the room to confirm this request, and I'm putting it to a vote. [[11:30:20.]] Z-87 Unfortunately, dear colleagues, I thank you that one of the co-authors of this request Mr. Palace is in the session room, which is a good example. And I would like to say the same for confirmation, please support our colleague Vladimir Parasuk's request to the President of Ukraine for an end to diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. I also note that the author himself is not in the room. Let's support the request. [[11:30:56]] For-72 Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, we cannot send this request to the President of Ukraine in the same way, primarily because of the absence of the national MPs themselves in the workplace. This concludes the questions that the deputies wanted to refer to the President of Ukraine, and I move on to making inquiries to other authorities. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the Zitomir district administration for the dismantling of the partitions that caused the overlap and spilling of the Guywa River in the village of Piska of the Žitomir district, in the area of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for operations abroad by the resident of Žitomir Galitik Vitaliyovich, born in 2003, and Jaros Anastasia Jaroslavni, born in 2003 from the village of Głboczycica in the Žitomir district of Žitomir. Stanislava Berezkin to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine of the Crevice Mining and Ammunition. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the restoration of the Police Line Point in Pomocní Dobrovelikeki district of Kirovograd. Fedor Negoya to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, on providing clarifications in part of the authority of the city and architecture authorities on the issue of the provision of land for private agriculture within the population. Fedor Negoya to the head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre on clarifying the definition of land within the localities (in rural areas). Andrija Lopushanski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on ensuring adequate quality and accessibility of services, including in the areas of education, culture, health, social protection, housing and utility, including human resources, financial security and infrastructure development during the decentralization of government and administrative and territorial reform in the mountainous regions of Ukraine. Andrija Lopushanski to Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Council on the need to continue the Lviv Regional Council for Rental of Facilities by Public Organizations: Lviv Regional Federation of Sport Tourism and Lviv Regional Rescue Service of the Ukrainian Tourist and Sports Association, Lviv, Railway Street, 16. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on systematic violations of the rule of law, money fights against athletes and failure to implement judicial decisions by the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. Sergio Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on raising social standards and official salaries. Vadim Sidorczuk to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the urgent need to increase the number of workers in structural units for social protection in the region. Vadim Sidorczuk, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the critical situation of funding the professional and technical educational institutions of the Plains region as a result of the inactivity of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. Sergija Melnika to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a residential building on the Avenue of Gruszewski, 50 in Kamyanec-Podilski Hmelnicka district for the housing of military personnel and their families. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for receiving a limited-liability company NIT Group budget compensation from VAT automatically for October 2015 and for submitting applications to the Registers for reimbursement of VAT in January 2016. Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, to review the issue of "food basket" for Ukrainian citizens. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the acquisition of a school bus (replaced as taken into the ATO zone) at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration for the immediate restoration of the drop-off of children to school. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the construction of a housing building in the city of Tristanec Sumska District to provide housing for ATO participants and their families. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 25 November 2015 "On the approval of the standard of fixed bed accommodation for 10,000 people" with the aim of preventing the reduction of almost 3,000 beds in the Somali medical facilities. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state subsidy, which is distributed between the budgets of the administrative and territorial units in which the area of observation of the nuclear power plants of the state power plant Energoat, namely the monofunctional city of Slavut Hmelnick. Romana Macola, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the immediate resolution of the issue of the capital repair of the roadways of general use and the national significance of the Hmelni district of the Slavus region of the Berezd region of the united territorial community, which is in a state of emergency and paralyses passenger transport that violates the rights of residents and causes many inconveniences. Andrija Nemirowski to the Dnipropetrov City Head about providing information on the education of the Director of the Consumer Market Department and the services of the Dnipropetrov City Council of Moroz. Alexander Opanasenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the granting of housing and utility subsidies to family-type children's homes. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to recalculate pensions to former employees of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine according to current legislation. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of funding from the government for the treatment of rare diseases in the Volin region. Ostap Ednak to the Ivano-Frankow City Head, head of the Johno-Frankow District State Administration on the garbage disposal situation and ensuring the implementation of public policy in the field of waste management in the Ivano-Frankiv region and in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Vassil Janicka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Head of the Masevicka Rural Council of the Rokinni District, Head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plain Region, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Rineoblanergo to solve the issue of electricity supply in the village of Masevitchi Rokitniv district of the Plain region. Igora Shurma to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, temporarily acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the involvement of officials responsible for the environmental disaster of the national and transnational scale associated with the loss of Ukraine’s territory within the West Bug River basin. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health to provide comprehensive information on the prevention of polio in Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the measures taken to pay off the wages paid to coal miners in 2014-2015 and on compliance with the payment schedule for the remuneration of the budget allocations from the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine according to the inventory descriptions of the coal mining enterprises. Mikhail Bondar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the reconstruction of external lighting networks (wire replacement, auxiliary equipment) in the cities of Broda, Sokal, the Lviv region's Red Grad with the implementation of energy-saving technologies under the Kyoto Protocol. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Czernovetsk District Government Administration for the State Budget of Ukraine for the construction of a school in the village of Glinice in the region of Czernoveck. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, Head of the Extraordinary Situations, Head of the Montenegrin District Government Administration of the State Budget of Ukraine, funds to provide fire-fighting equipment for the Visnické, Putilski, Kitzmansky and Stóžinetsky regions of the Czernovec Region. Alexander Ponomarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of work on the reconstruction of coastal structures in the city of Berdjansk Zaporijska region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the possibility of unblocking the accounts of the rural councils and the budgetary institutions of the Orutsky region of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the failure of the State to fulfil its financial obligations to citizens affected by an accident at CHEUS, who sought the State’s dues in court. Sergey Valentirov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of the gas pipelines of Weselówski, Priazovsky, Yakimiv district of Zaporzi district. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for admission to the communal property of the territorial community of Kyiv of social infrastructure facilities of the state-owned enterprise VO Kyiv Radio Plant. Vasil Janicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, to increase the power consumption limit in the city of Kuznitsovsk Plains region. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, director of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Harkiwgaz ZBOT" for the calculation of the differences in natural gas consumption standards. Valentina Didić to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the absence of a full, comprehensive and impartial study of all circumstances relating to criminal conduct and pretrial investigation of the signs of crime, provided for in article 364, part 1, concerning the abuse of office by the administration of the Klovski List No. 77 of the Cave district of Kiev. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, on financial security for the transfer of individual categories of citizens. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 938 of 23 August 2012. Jacob Besbach to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the High Town District Court of the Kyiv Region regarding the violation of the reasonable terms of the trial. Andrija Pavelka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for conducting a background check on the situation set out in the address of the Dnipropetrov Regional Children's Society "Helping Children" and the use of appropriate response measures. Andrija Pavelka is the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the need to carry out State architectural and building control of compliance with the requirements of legislation regarding the construction of multi-story buildings in Odessa on the street of Novobrzegova, 12th. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrovsk District Council on the urgent use of repairs to cover the road between the cities of Dnipropetrovsk and Nnipropetrovsk. Andrija Shipka to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the provision of drinking water to the people's areas of Shevchenkov village council in the region of Dnipropetrov. Helen Sotnik is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to provide information on criminal conduct initiated against Viktor Yanukovic and property arrested. Olga Bogholtz to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the inability to mobilize military-bound members of the family of military personnel who died in eastern Ukraine during the conduct of the ATO. Olga Bogolitz to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the need to test the new patrol services of the National Police of Ukraine for a transparent competitive selection aimed at avoiding discrimination against ATO veterans. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev State Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council on Budget and Economic and Social Development, on the review of the appeal of Dniprovsky District residents and the introduction of the Social and Economic Development Programme of Kiev to the Social and Economic Development Programme of the School No.224. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as head of the right-wing district office in Kiev, head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development for the construction of asphalt cover on the streets of Milutenka and Volkov, right-wing district of Kiev. Mikhail Doubenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the collection of the Russian Federation's debt to Ukraine for staying in its territory of the Russian Federation's Black Sea Fleet. Dmitry Golubov to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take immediate action to verify the abuse of the State flag of Ukraine by acting as deputy to the head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the investment and development of Borovik Alexander, possibly having dual citizenship and bringing Borovik Alexander to justice. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the transfer of vocational and technical education institutions from state ownership to municipal property of relevant institutions, institutions and organizations and for the optimization of the network. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the availability of preschool education and the creation of proper conditions for obtaining it. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of housing for participants in the fighting in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine regarding the proper financial, material and technical, food and other provisions of the military commissions and military parts of Biloczerkovsky, Voddarski, Skirski, Stavistenski, Tarostian and Tetijov regions of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Department of Education and Science of the Kyiv District State Administration for the adequate financial provision of Bilocerkowski, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian and Tetijev district during annual vacations. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of high-quality internet connections to rural areas based on agreements on socio-economic cooperation between local governments and telecommunications companies. Andrija Derkač to the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine for the repair of the highways of the Mid-Budsky and Shastkin district of the Suma region. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the settlement of the situation at the international point of the "Segini" pass. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the approval of the Order and conditions for payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death (death) or disability of a volunteer as a result of the injury sustained during combat operations in the ATO zone. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine to guarantee the social protection of former workers in the internal affairs of Ukraine and members of their families. Dmitri Welcome to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 17 December 2012 No.1221 "Some Issues of Collection, Removal, Dismantling and Dismantling of Worked Oils (Olives)". Alexander Kodola to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the impartial and timely investigation of criminal conduct No.4204161320000008, and the appointment of a post-mortem forensic and written expert. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the status of military service personnel in the field of B3137. Victoria Sumar to the U.S. Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the failure to carry out the necessary investigations in the investigation of the obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalist Tkakov Lilia during the editorial task in the village of Knežiči Brovarski district of Kyiv region on 6 October 2015 by the investigating group of the prosecutor's office. Irina Ephraim to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the re-examination of information on the application of the prohibitions provided for in part three and fourth of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power, regarding Deputy Prosecutor of the Odessa Region of Mamedov Günduz Aydinović. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for discontent with the Head of the National Police in the Vinnitsky region, for the parliamentary appeal and legal evaluation of the activities of the head of the Bar District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsky region for the improper performance of their duties and the failure to report on conflicts of interest. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, on illegal activities in the work of the Information and Interministerial Commission in the review of materials on granting status as a participant in hostilities killed in the protection of Ukraine's independence and sovereignty in the area of anti-terrorist operation by Volunteer Horatchevski O.O. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of a compensation mechanism for the treatment of foreign citizens to local budgets. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister for Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine on the transfer of parts of land that are under constant use of the DP "State Mirgograd Grainage Plant" to the land of municipal property of the city of Mirgrod Poltava. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze and Vladislav Doub under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure proper conditions for the investigation of a criminal case. Vadim Krivenk to the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for violations during the construction of a clinic in the city of Radomisl. Oleg Oschovsky, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection by the officials of the Council of Ravens. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the fulfilment of the requirements of land law. Groups of national deputies (Dechtirczuk, Janicko and only 12 other deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on removal from the list of enterprises subject to privatization in 2016 by the Red Calina sanatorium. Sergey Kaplina to the first Deputy Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to conduct an audit of the budget of the Poltava City Council in part of the under-receiving of leased land for markets and parking. Aunty Dontz to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the return of deposits. Alexander Oneshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, on the disengagement and transfer of land to the "Elita" of the Institute of Peace. Trades for the employees and pensioners of the Institute, researchers and social workers of the Central Rural Council of the Kyiv Region. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing road repairs in the region of Czernovetsec. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the use of measures to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the conduct of an official inspection of the presence in the actions of Lieutenant Goncharuk Andrija Anatoliyovich and Corporal of the Police of Kolzov Aria Viktorovna of the gross violation of the Police Act and the exceedment of his official powers, drawing on the results of the verification of the responsibility established by Ukraine's legislation. Alexia Lensky, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the protection of the historical and cultural acquisitions of the Ukrainian nation — the iconostu of the village of Stara Skwaryav XVI - 17th century — which at a high professional level is part of the world’s art and the refusal of the museum to export the iconosus after the completion of the restoration work in connection with the threat of its abduction. Alexia Kirichenko to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction and refurbishment of the municipal institution "Sumska District Clinical Cancer Doctor" with the aim of implementing Ukrainian citizens' constitutional rights for quality and timely medical care. Jury Derevjanka to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the non-admission of heads of natural-intelligence funds without competitive selection of persons whose candidatures do not meet the requirements of effective legislation. Oleg Petrenko to the finance minister of Ukraine on the extent to which state lotteries are being implemented in Ukraine. Dimitar Timchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces by foreigners and non-citizens. Andrija Šinkovič to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Hmelnicka District Council, Hmelnicka District Administration on the capital repair of the R-32 Yampil-Ljubar road as a strategic highway for Hmeljnična and the link between the western part of Ukraine and the central and eastern parts. Andrija Shinkovič, head of the Bilogir district government administration of the Hmelnick district, head of the Bilogir district council of the Hmelnick district, head of the Bilogir village council of the Hmelnick district on the local authority requirement for a public hearing as soon as possible on the draft general plan of the village of Bilogir. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on strengthening measures to combat the criminogenic situation in Smila and the region of Cherkas region. Sergey Rudika, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Cerkas region Road Service, on the formal attitude of officials of executive authorities that implement public policy in the field of road management towards the development of project and cost-effective documentation for the repair of the most inconvenient areas of the Cherkas region. Vladimir Parasuka, head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the conduct of a review of the activities of the head of the Jovkow District State Administration of the Lviv Region of the Stepanovna Hope, under the circumstances of possible abuse of the service and the spending of budgetary resources on the allocation of social assistance. Paul Djublik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on issues related to the functioning of health institutions in conditions of decentralization. People’s Deputies (Common 7. Djublica, Krivenka, and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the lifting of orders from the General Administration of the Djorgheokadastr in the Zitomirsk region. Oksana Sold to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for speeding up the preparation of the list of goods, the performance of the work, the provision of services provided as a charity for the provision of ATOs, the cost of which may be included by the owner of other normal activities. Irina Souslowa to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the obstacles to the work of the Head of the State Enterprise, the Hungarian Spirit Plant. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Chervakova and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine’s Attorney - General’s Office in order to ensure the proper investigation of the unlawful acts of deputies of the Cotsubin Village Council. Kostina Jarinić to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrzaliznica", the Kirovograd Regional Public Administration, the Kirovograd Regional Council for the consideration of the possibility of making changes to the route of passenger train No.732 (INTERSITI +), providing for an additional stop in the city of Kirovograd. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil Regional Administration for the financing of the construction of a public education school in the village of Novosilka Podvolocchiskie district of Ternopil. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the major problem of vaccination of children in Ukraine and the threat of an epidemiological situation. Igor Popova to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the creation of a method of carrying out a wealth illustration. Igor Popov to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on measures to confirm or refute information published in the media regarding "Panama Documents". Paul Rizanenka to the director of the Social Protection Fund, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the provision of a family car with limited facilities in the Barish district of Kiev. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine’s Attorney - General for the violation of the requirements of legislation by citizen Redko V.V. Ruslan Demczak to the Chief of the Road Service in the Vinnitsk Region on the unsatisfying state of the R-17 regional road. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of Cabinet Order of the Ministers of Ukraine from 25 March 2014 No.88 on the amendment of paragraph 1 of Cabinet Order No.373 of 23 March 2011. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on the need to take effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the residential and building cooperative "Youth 2" to House 98 on the Street of the Academy of Sciences of the Kyiv Region of Odessa on a comprehensive solution to the issue of elevator safety in 2016. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on objective review of the appeal of a veteran of work, a child of Tarzov Nela Kostinovna, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa to help build the necessary architectural structures and well-being of housing for the sake of adequate sanitation standards for safe living. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Melniczuk and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, on the need for State support for domestic medical institutions involved in bone marrow transplantation. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recovery of benefits for the free passage of pensioners and other categories of pensioners and for the immediate use of response measures to supplement the article on expenditure/subsidies from the State Budget of Ukraine to local budgets to compensate for the cost of travel of individual categories of citizens. Tarasa Batenka to the Ministry of Information of Ukraine, heads of the Lviv District State Administration for the obligation of subcontractors to carry out capital repairs of the road in the area from the village of the city type Section to the city of Novi Díděl (Lviv Region) to fulfil the guaranteed terms of the contracts, in which clearly established periods of responsibility of contractors for quality indicators of the constructed, reconstructed, or capital-repaired object and by their own means to eliminate shortcomings that occurred on the given section of the road a few months after the repair. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will continue our session for five minutes until recess to complete the requests, because there is a great deal that all of our colleagues can today direct requests to the appropriate executive authorities. We've got a five-minute session to resume. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio on the increase in Russian twice as much on the television channel "112 Ukraine" and expulsion from the air of the Ukrainian language. Roman Semenha to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on clarifying the procedure for providing information on the availability/resistance of ownership of apartments and non-residential premises in the event of a merger of joint owners of a multi-room building. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the non-conformity of paragraph 43 of Decision No. 1037 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and paragraph 3 of Letter 7/10-1070 of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing. Jury Lewchenka to the Central Electoral Commission on the non-delegation of interim elections in the one-mandom constituency no. 206. Jury Levchenk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on (term suspensions of powers), the early suspension of the powers of the national deputies of Ukraine Jeremeyev and Filatov. Vitalia Kuril to the Ministry of Information of Ukraine on the results of the Starobel-Hark transport competition, which may contain signs of corruption by officials. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the financing of a hospital in the village of the town type of Highlander of the Ternopil region. Taras Shepherd, Shepherd, I'm sorry, to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal by the head of the Ternopil National Police Department of the HUPP in the Ternopil region of Savika S.S. Yurya Berezi to the director of the subsidiary Dnipropetrovski oblovtodor, of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Shareholder Company of the Car Roads of Ukraine, on the timelines and status of the repair of roads in the Dnipropetrovsk region, including the international road M-04 Poznanka-Lugansk-Izvarne, on the road area passing through the village of Yellowté, the town of Petithatka, the Fifth District to the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Jurya Bereza to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Dnipropetroval district centre of medical and social expertise, including on the grounds of refusing to continue the disability group Conoplanci Oleni Mikolayivni. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Minister of Social Policy, the Head of the Ukrainian General Pension Fund in the Vinicki Region, the Vinnicki City Head, the head of the Vinnicki District Council, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the town of Vinnice, the head of the Vinnicki District State Administration for the assignment of a pension to James W.A., who has no registered residence and accommodation. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra, Head of the Vinnitsky District Council, Head of the Vinnitsky District Administration of the Vinnitsk Region, Vinnitsky City Head, Head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Vinnitsky Region, Head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration for the illegal transfer to private property of land, at the expense of the land of state ownership, which was planned to build a science and technology park on the territory of the Bochonian Rural Council of the Vinnitice Region (at the moment border of the town of Winnitz). Sergey Kudlayenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for granting Roman Dudar the status of a participant in the fighting. Dear colleagues, now we announce a 30-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the break was announced at 12.05 p.m. We have read a large portion of the questions today because there have been so many in this week. At 12:35 a.m., 30 minutes for recesses are complete. I'd like to consult you, dear colleagues. We have consciously given more time to "hours of questions to the government" to have more communication with the government. That was the right thing to do. This has delayed our time and, in fact, we are not able to get to the point of first reading. And I have an offer, if you'll support it, that we, an hour to announce the speeches of the different deputies. Is there a general agreement? Thank you, dear fellows. That would be wise, wouldn't it, Igor Gus? My fellow Members, I ask only the deputies to enter the room for participation in the recording, as then the national MPs come along and say that they have not been able to sign up, and it is very important for them to come forward and tell us their vision of the development of our nation's strategic state. So I invite the people's deputies who want to participate in the recording and the performances in the "different," to go into the hall and prepare for the recording. All those who wanted to come into the hall, although there are still seats available in the hall. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce requests and speeches by the national deputies "on various issues". I'm asking you to record the performances in "different," please. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u88	It's nice to have a speaker standing up for all the procedures, and that's what I want to say as a parliamentarian. Yesterday, when the government was released and a decision was taken or supported by a new government, in a sad caver's court (and you all know it), there was a threat to the arrest of Vitalia Kasca, a prosecutor who authorized the arrest of diamond prosecutors, a prosecutor who broke a circular message inside the Attorney General's Office, a prosecutor who challenged the system and gave hope to a very large number of citizens, which was the beginning of real justice, they began to incarcerate the top bribes. Unfortunately, he is now alone in court and many colleagues have come to support him yesterday and, thank God, the judge has rejected the Attorney General’s request for the arrest of Vitali. But I think it's a "call" on a lot of people, in this room and in a lot of people in society. They do not just sabotage justice; they do not just continue to preserve corruption; they begin to try to incarcerate those who fight them, who do not want to be part of a circuit. Vitaly Kasko is not the only one. Under investigation, another deputy attorney general who arrested the diamond prosecutors, David Saquaralidze, released from the Security Service, first deputy Victor Trepak, who secured that famous arrest of the diamond prosecutors. Many volunteers from the Armed Forces, from the National Guard are under trial and some are under arrest. We all have this sad knowledge, these sad facts, and we all work with you, who has the strength, who has the determination to help these people. How can all of us be helped, how can we be helped once and for all, by fellow Members of Parliament? Appoint a normal Attorney General. This is a big request to the Peter Prashenko Block, a big request to the People's Front -- to the two largest factions that have formed the coalition, to all those who are in opposition. We need to adopt a law next week under which the Attorney General will be elected by an independent commission through a competition. If we get an independent Henprosecutor, everything goes differently, the new government will work differently, the parliament will work differently, the president will work differently. The last thing I wanted to ask was for people to come to the Supreme Council on Tuesday at 9.30 a.m. and help us to approve.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u89	Thank you. Popov Igor, as well as Lensky, deliver their speeches to the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, and therefore he has a six - minute rule. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian Society! Yesterday, as a result of the plot of President Prashenko with the oligarchs, with the carcasses, with the regionals of the two oligarchic groups represented in Parliament, was elected Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman of Ukraine, a new composition was chosen and a new Program of Government approved, which gives them the immunity of their annual activities. The result of this conspiracy is the oligarchy government that we have today. Because when we were assured that a new democratic coalition had been created in Parliament yesterday, the whole parliament saw and the whole society saw that a democratic coalition conforming to the requirements of article 83 of the Constitution, when factions that form a coalition should have a majority, there is no majority in our parliament. We were told that. True, they didn't show the signatures of MPs, which seemed to have been signed under the coalition, but from the words of the leaders of two factions of the BPT and the People's Front to the whole community, it was reported that a coalition had been formed in Parliament for two. The results of yesterday's vote for Prime Minister Groysman, for the government of Groysman Dustenk show that the coalitions of two factions in BPP, the People's Front, and the carcasses that were added to the BPF are not really there. In Parliament yesterday, as a result of the agreements of round-the-clock, secret, corrupt President Dustenk with the owners of the oligarchic groups represented in Parliament, with regional MPs voting in favour of the 16th of January, a new de facto coalition was created in Parliament yesterday, with the participation of the "Peter Prashenko Block", the "National Front", the "Tushoks" and the regional deputies from the oligarchic groups. The greatest cynicism is that President Poshenko, Prime Minister Groysman, their apologists tell the story by creating a coalition with the "regionals" hiding the ideals of Maidan. This is what it takes to be cynical to form a coalition with regionals, to choose with the regionals the government, and to cover up the ideals of Maidan and the sacrifices we've suffered in Maidan through the regionals. Today, those who adopted dictatorial laws on January 16 today actually received a rematch by talking to Dustykenk, with the government, with Groissman, and by choosing the government of the oligarchs. What policy will be pursued by a government chosen as a result of treason, as a result of court-martialed, secret agreements based on corruption? This government is going to be running a policy of protection for the oligarchs, this is a government, in fact, a powdery government, because we understand that Groissman is an alternative to Iushenko, and today all the responsibility for the government's activities lies with the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, who did everything he could to break the democratic coalition, and then, when he failed, refused to accept our terms to the coalition, the partners of other factions, they formed a coalition with the regionals. They did the same thing that the then heroes of the Orange Revolution did in 2005 with Janukovic. Today, Dustyenko is renegotiating with the regions to usurp power in order to continue to engage in corruption, so that there are no reforms in the country, in order to continue to rob people. Because when pensioners pay 15 percent of their taxes, the president hides his companies in offshore and doesn't pay his taxes. Just like the head of the National Bank of Honduras, just like Minister of Finance Danielchuk, whom the Offshores have just discovered. Therefore, the Radical Party, which is in opposition to power, to the government, to the President, to the broad BPP coalition, to the People's Front and to the regionals, we are addressing our partners in the democratic opposition -- the Fatherland faction, the Self-Help faction -- to form a united opposition in Parliament. To the non-fractional deputies, to the civil society in order to resist the usurpation of power by President Prashenko, the oligarchic government of Prashenko-Groysman. We need to work together. The first-line action plan that we propose for a united opposition is the adoption of the Law on impeachment by the President of Ukraine, the adoption of the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the adoption of a new electoral legislation that will enable corruption in political parties and in electoral districts to be overcome; the election of an independent Attorney General of Ukraine who will serve the law, not serve the President or an oligarchical regional majority in the Supreme Council. The Radical Party is proposing to society an alternative anti-crisis economic plan aimed at raising the lives of citizens, increasing wages and pensions. We will be in opposition to the government and will not let it rob the countries. And last but not least, I'm asking my colleagues from the democratic factions to sign under the creation of a commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the offshors of the President of Ukraine. It is immoral to hide money in offshore areas when pensioners pay taxes!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u91	John Melniczuk conveys the word of Sporish to John. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u92	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine. I think there's a lot of different speeches that we're going to hear today in different ways, but I'd like us to really appreciate it in some way. We already have a new government. And anyway, but still it's formed and we should all not put sticks in the wheels, and we should really support, set the shoulders. If we put our backs on the new government today, I know what good it will do. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, because after yesterday's vote, Oleg Lazko just spoke, but I'll say that if you watched Russian television, how they tasted like a new government, if you look again at how they voted "The Opposition Block," zero is the Radical Party, zero is the Fatherland, zero is the Fatherland, and so on. [[B in m in s a l in]] How do you know how uncomfortable it is to hear from this rostrum today when the zero gave these factions together with the Opposition Block. And we heard Boyko's speech yesterday, and you know how uncomfortable it was when he was in favor of the old government, saying that he needed it for a long time, you know, in prison. But at the same time, let's think about Boyko and the Opposition Block, as they voted in favour of resigning the government. They, when they gave an unsatisfactory assessment of the government, and when they resigned, they all escaped like rats from a ship. In order to leave that old government, they say otherwise. But, you know, every time there's a Party of Regions, "The Opposition Block," whoever it is, whether it's Shufrich or Boyko, in the end, I'm told they're the only ones who can't say it's "The Glory of Putin!" Do you understand? When we say, "Glory to Ukraine!'but we think they're almost saying "Glory to Putin!".. I don't think we should go with the Opposition Block. And never will the Peter Dust Block be associated with him. So I would like to say that we do have a new government, a new Ministry of the APC. I would like to advise Kutov and others, what they said, and yesterday it was said, to grant subsidies to agriculture. There are a lot of agricultural professionals here, and we know very well that subsidies to agriculture are. Really, it's a big corruption. Consider how many agricultural subsidies were not received and how much bribes had to be borne for the return of subsidies. Then let's cancel the guards, let's leave, let's not interfere with agriculture, and it'll be without subsidies to work, but the guards will be able, in fact, to do everything they can to keep our fields protected, and properly sown, and gathered at the right time. And the last. Today I asked Ostap Semierak, really, a question, because, in fact, today, we're testing the environmental services of those farms that left the animal kingdom. Well, Your Honor, if we impose such fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u93	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u94	What, really, throw away the manure, there, and so on, how many cows there are there, and how many of them are there. Thus, we need only be concerned and pained, not to impose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u95	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u96	I ask that all of Ukraine’s environmental service consider whether it is necessary to bury the animals of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Dove Vladislav. He is referring to Saul. Dear colleagues, let's introduce a certain tradition that is in all cadences: handing over notes to who gives the word to. I know, yes, even when there is, it's not easy. Don't let me know. I'm still talking. I now give Saul’s word, of course, but I still have a request to all the national deputies. Please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u98	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I am a national deputy major, who probably represents one of the most beautiful and beautiful parts of our Ukraine -- Hutzulščina and Pokach. It's the highest region of our state, it's the country where the preserved ethno traditions, it's the country that's cleanest, it's the country that has the highest potential for tourism development. And many people today in Ukraine often and without any reason compare it with Switzerland and call it Ukrainian Switzerland. Instead, the state of the infrastructure that would allow the country to be fully named by the Ukrainian Switzerland does not allow us to talk about it today. Last year, together with colleagues, we were able to move this issue out of place and start repairing a vital road called Ukraine's Carpathian Gold, which is called R-24, and to this end, to allocate 50 million dollars. This year, I hope that the repairs of this road will continue, of course, from the amount of money that is needed to complete it is not enough, but I am confident that we will still be able to continue repairing this road. Nevertheless, it is important, and I thank all my fellow members for their support in that we will also be able to start repairs, which also has a serious impact on the development of tourism in this country, this is the road of Ivano-Frankivski – Chernivci. But, dear fellows, I would like to say that this is clearly not enough to take a very serious look at the state of infrastructure in this Carpathian country. Today's agenda is to repair the road of Kosovo – Tudev, Yablounov – Kosmach, Stetsev – Tulukov, Vrchovina – Chernivci, and I think today the repair of these roads should be one of the priorities, because it's not just investments, it's investments that give new jobs in tourism development, in the development of woodworking, in the development of small, medium-sized businesses, in the development of animal production, and I believe that these are the costs that we spend in the form of a single bracelet that has a reverse effect in the form of 10 bracelets. And taking this opportunity, I'm also addressing my fellow national MPs, and I'm addressing all of the Ukrainians who are watching this talk, on the eve of Easter, I invite all of you to celebrate the Easter celebrations in Hutzulska, where perhaps the most preserved tradition in Ukraine is the celebration of these Easter holidays. We're going to have an ethnofestival of Easter Space. That's why I'll be happy, and I'm sure, and the people of Gutsulska will be happy to see all the citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you for the invitation. I spent Christmas holidays in Gutsulsk, in Kosovo and in the upper reaches of the heath parade. It's really amazing. I support the invitation for everyone to go to Gutzulščina. Head Michaela, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u100	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, your honor, I would like to address you with the suggestion that what happened yesterday certainly upset all of us. And we see that we really are not moving towards a European civilized country. Still, we are more like wild barbarians who do not adhere to the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine. And in this way, as the prime minister and the new government were elected yesterday, there is nothing but grief. After all, when everyone said that there was no way that elections could be allowed because the rematch would come, we saw the regionals backing up the new government and the new prime minister yesterday. And thanks to their voices, they were converted. I am. I am very sorry that we do not have a minister of health today and, for example, we do not have a minister of health. It is fitting that power today is not interested in the health of Ukrainians. And they are happy to see Ukrainians die, and the population of Ukraine is shrinking at catastrophic speeds. They seem to kill two rabbits with one shot, and the pension will not be paid to anyone, nor do they need to spend money on medicine. But unfortunately, what I would like to say is that we have not seen, except that biting behind the portfolios, for fighting, for positions, who will take up what ministry -- we have not heard a word, no discussion about the action programme, where the country will move, which must make the key reforms that need to be made in our country to bring Ukraine out of this deep crisis. We haven't seen their strategic steps as they're going to pull the economy out of the shadows. Jaresko and Yatzenuk talked about this, they said 60 percent of the economy in the shadows, but they didn't offer a step. Of course, today's task, which is central to our nation's preservation of the country so that we don't fall victim to Putin, is to make swift and decisive changes in our country. And to do that, we need to adopt a number of very important laws that were proposed by Freedom. The whole country and the whole world are shocked by the corruption scandals that the President is involved in, and so on, the "block of the Panamanian patriots," which are already called, which have been uploaded into those offshore scandals. We see new accusations every time, but no action, no investigation, and no struggle. Instead of "Freedom" on the first day we first came to Parliament, we registered a bill to fight offshore, a bill to legalize and recover funds from offshore areas, to eliminate Cyprus and other offshore zones. The bill number is 0001, which is the first bill in Parliament that has been registered from our initiative. And we demand that he be put to the vote immediately. The bill on the elimination of private monopolies, the bill on the return to state ownership of strategic enterprises, the bill on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, and also the bill on the President's impeachment -- this is the main task that we have to do now. And so is the new election bill. So, of course, I support that next week, our task is, even if we have to, to block the rostrum, but to require that these laws be put into the order of the day. And first of all, we have to accept them, because without these laws there will be no change. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u102	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, with the fierce violations of the Rules and the Constitution, a new government was formed, although we heard nothing new and saw nothing in the program presented to us yesterday, nor in the fact that it is actually going to do this government, which is the first steps of this government. You know the main question is, and it's obvious to everyone whether this government will pursue any policy other than that of the previous Yatsenuk government. And to my sincere conviction, the answer, unfortunately, that politics will be the same, will remain. And not only is the political basis of this government going to be the same, and not just because many people will be there the same, most importantly, is that this government will likewise serve the interests of the oligarchs. And the fact that yesterday it was by the votes of the oligarchic groups of former regions in Parliament that this government was appointed is the answer to that question. Yes, this government will continue to be prooligarchy. And the key question now is: where is this government going to take the money? There are only two options. Or he's going to force what Freedom requires, the oligarchs to stop issuing money into offshore areas, pay real taxes in Ukraine, and thus fill the Ukrainian budget. And what I'm saying is that in the last 10 years, 116 billion dollars have been taken from Ukraine into the offshore zones. So the Ukrainian economy can generate and generate money, but this money comes out of Ukraine and it doesn't stay here. Instead, I think another policy will be chosen and that was actually in the government of Jacinyuk. The middle class will continue to be robbed, the pensioners will continue to be robbed, and the oligarchs will leave all their preferences behind, and they will continue to rob the Ukrainians. We need to understand that Ukraine is now standing all over the world, unfortunately with its hand out and asking for credit. The International Monetary Fund may now lend about $3.5 billion to Ukraine. This is, imagine, the last 10 years, 116 billion have been removed from Ukraine. And for this loan, which, by the way, will have to be returned with interest, Ukraine actually agrees to go under external management, cancel all social programs and so on. But instead, there's another way we're proposing, a de-offshoring route, a way to destroy private monopolies, a way to introduce a progressive scale of taxation: small business -- small taxes, big business -- big taxes. But unfortunately, as we can see, this government will not do so. Therefore, it is necessary to recharge the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u103	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u104	Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! As with my constituents, I am very concerned about the situation that has taken place today with the reform of the Social Insurance Fund against accidents in production and occupational diseases in Ukraine. I, like all the reforms that have taken place in our country over the past two years, and this reform is not meant to raise the level of service for people, but it will give them extra trouble. In a reference sent to me by the public organizations of miners and disabled people of West Donbass with some additions to the Social Insurance Fund's decisions, they note that the so-called optimisation provides for the complete liquidation of the fund's separation in the essentially mining town of Ternivka, which now serves about 5,000 disabled miners with the transfer of its functions to the Pavlovgrad office, located 30 kilometers from Ternivka. At present, there are 18 specialists in the Tern department, or 1 specialist serving about 300 disabled people. The department of the Pavlovgrad Foundation has 27 specialists to serve more than 6,000 disabled people, or 1 specialist for 250 people. After the liquidation of the Terni branch of the Fund, we can only imagine how much pressure there will be on each specialist, even with a slight increase in the number. In addition, people with significant health problems will be forced to travel 30 km [30 km] to resolve even minor issues. Dear colleagues! As a coal miner with a 27-year-old underground job, I understand very well the dissatisfaction of my classmates. And I call upon all those who are indifferent to the fate of all persons with disabilities in Ukraine, personally the Head of the Council's Social Policy Committee, the Head of Government of the Social Insurance Fund, the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund, the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund, the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund, the Executive Director of the entire Ukraine, together with the people with disabilities, to sit at the negotiating table and make a balanced decision on the restructuring of the structure and optimization of the expenditure of the Fund, which will take account of the demands and needs of the disabled themselves of the work with a view not to making it worse, but rather to raise their level of service as people who deserve unconditional respect from the State and with you. Otherwise, there is a high risk that people with disabilities will carry out large-scale protests throughout Ukraine, both here in Kiev and in many other cities of the country. I ask that you consider the MP's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Parliamentary Committee, the Minister of Social Policy, the head of the Fund's administration and the directors of the executive directors of social insurance funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u105	Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u106	A venerable Ukrainian community! As a result of the oligarchic conspiracy that everyone could observe yesterday in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall, the efforts of the cynical barriers, the oligarchs and the open agents of the Kremlin, the anti-social government came to power in Ukraine, which is exactly as its predecessors did not think, and does not think of the unprotected sections of the population. As a result of these measures, the people who have not been provided with the aid have been left behind, who saved our nation 30 years ago from the greatest technological catastrophe in human history in the Chernobyl AES. Despite the antisocial policy of the government, yesterday, I, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, and other party colleagues, passed a bill on the status and social protection of citizens, participants and winding-up agents at the Chernobyl AES. So it happened that in my home country, the small town of Lubna, in the Lubensky region of Poltavščina, there are more than 3,000 windshields of the Chernobyl CHAES accident. Last week, while in Lubna, I took part in a beehive landing in memory of the dead black people. Think of the year when 80 Chernobylites died, 80 new shores emerged, in just one district center. So I urge Parliament to return to those who saved the nation from the greatest technological disaster of the 20th century. In addition, banditry continues to dominate the country. On April 13, 2016, about 21.15 in the village of Red Guliapil district of Zaporozhye district, there was an attack on the village head of Vladimir Shevchenk, who is a member of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška and his wife. The unknown attacked the couple at their house and savagely beat the head of the country to the point of unconsciousness. The attackers drove on a foreign - made car using a bit to beat Vladimir Shevchenk, threatening to slaughter his wife. At present, the condition of the victims is severe, they are in the hospital, cranial trauma and numerous injuries, loss of blood. We believe that such an attack is related to the professional activity of Vladimir Shewchenk and we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u107	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u108	and require an objective investigation into this attack. Otherwise, residents of the village of Red are going to cover the roads. Please consider this part of my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Habakkuk, and the acting Attorney General of Sevruk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u109	Kirichenko gives the word to Oksani Konczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u110	Praise Jesus Christ! There is now a great fast in the country, as is the case with all Christians of the Orthodox world. Those passions that have been ripped out in this room are certainly devilish. I ask our new speaker, Mr. Andrey Parovia, on behalf of all the Christians in Parliament, to organize and sanctify this room so that we can work, serve God and the people of Ukraine. Because what's happening here is that what we're trying to do here now, when we're with you instead of helping our political prisoners, instead of worrying about our sick people all over the country, we're forgetting about those who are currently suffering from torture and suffering and risking their health, giving their lives for Ukraine. All Christians in our country please pray for our Nadia Savchenko, for all of our political prisoners — for Kolchenka, for the Saints, for Cliché, for Karpuk — all the martyrs we will pray for in their behalf, perhaps in the future, and say that our prayers have helped them. Please pray for all of our boys who are on the front line protecting our country as long as they're venting these damn passions on the one hand, how to get to this terrible corret, which is called power. Today we demanded direct government in the Ministry of Health, because the only ministry left without a headmaster is it. It's like we're doing great in the country. We now have all the oncological children of the whole country without drugs. For 350 million dollars, drugs have been bought but are not imported. The MOH leaders, those who are left behind, have been lying to us every day for the last two months, telling us that it will be tomorrow. That's not true! The Tablets Foundation, which has held 14 on its shoulders for two months, is now officially calling you the head of the Board of Trustees, which includes the Tablets Foundation, has run out of money today. The last thing they've been able to do is take four days to treat their children. From next week on, I promise every deputy to pay bills for the treatment of children with cancer. THE MOH collapsed all the work on trust funds, and no one of our wounded fighters is going abroad to be treated. Not now! Just because they didn't start the job. You and I now have a country and a parliament that has turned their backs on the health system. Mr. Andrey, I'm asking you for an extra 20 seconds now, beyond this appeal to you, beyond what you are, our new Supreme Council Head, I'm officially asking you to do your duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u111	Please continue for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u112	Thank you. To fulfill the obligation of your predecessor, Groysman, who gave the floor to the entire Health Committee that this week we will spend our health day with you, we will vote on the 18 health laws that await the country that have been approved by the committee for four months. No law has been passed, but instead we have seen this spectacle. I ask you to keep that word next week, because among these bills are extremely important bills for all health care institutions, for medical workers, for those who need organ transplants. These are the bills the country is waiting for. Thank you. I look forward to your wisdom and your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u113	Mrs. Oksana, thank you. Since my last name has been given, I'll give you an honest, frank answer. For the next week, the agenda has been established, but everyone has given prior consent that we should take one day completely on the day of health care, which was still on the previous Conciliation Council. We will meet on Monday for the Conciliation Council, where you will also be the leader of your faction, Oleg Lazko, and I promise you, I will do my best as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make one of those days where we are most efficient, for example, four, we made a day or at least five to six hours for health bills. It can't be just my decision. This is the decision of Parliament and the Conciliation Council, but I will stand up for this position and I am confident that your faction leader will be my trusted partner here. Thank you. Please, Olga Cervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Just two weeks ago, I was behind this parliamentary rostrum and warned of the danger of a force scenario in the village of the Kotsubin Kyiv region. I was talking about the danger of forming a national republic there on the principle of how the republics were formed in DNR, LNR and Crimea. Sadly, all my appeals to the law enforcement agencies remained unheard of. Unfortunately, it happened, as I said, that now power is in the village, a self-proclaimed village head is in operation, there's been a capture of the village council's administrative structure, there's been a forgery of the seal. This is a criminal case. All of this was made possible only by the inaction of the law enforcement agencies, because they had not taken any steps to warn of a situation that was insecure. Moreover, during the capture of the administrative building, the local police stood silently and watched the New Face party, led by Mayor Irpen Volodymyr Karpluk, capture the building and crush the police. This is clearly a video, but I want to see the reaction of law enforcement. What's next? You saw it, you broke a criminal case. Why are you still not responding? How is this criminal case progressing? How much is the police's inaction during the fights at the session of the Cotsubin Village Council? The village head of Olga Matushina, a 29-year-old girl, after every session of the Cotsubina Village Council, is going to take off the beatings! And the police aren't responding at all. They don't care, they take statements -- and then they disappear somewhere, and then nobody cares. The price of the issue is the 4000 hectares of forest between the village of Kotsubinsky and Irpen, who want to join each other, to unite the mayor of Irpeña Vladimir Karpuk in order to build the 4,000. And Olga the Mother disturbs them in this, the village head. And that's why it was forcibly removed from power. Thank you very much to each of the 260 national deputies who voted yesterday in favour of putting an end to the power of the Cotsuba Village Council. I want to point out that that's why we did it, that the law enforcement agencies are working. I am now addressing the police and the prosecutor's office, those criminal cases that are disturbed in the village of Kotsubinski should be brought to an end. If you don't report to the community by Monday on the state of these criminal cases, I'm going to announce everyone's names on Tuesday from this parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u115	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u116	If the law enforcement authorities do not report by Monday on the status of criminal investigations into the disorder in the village of Kotsubinski, on Tuesday I will announce the names of all those who cross the forest’s rubble in the village of Kotsubinski and in Irpen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u117	Thank you. I'm asking the apparatus to make a statement to the National MP, Olga Cervakovy, as a parliamentary request, to refer this parliamentary request to all the law enforcement agencies and to take control of the task. Please welcome Oleg Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u118	Thank you, fellow MPs, good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. I'd like to start my speech today with a story about opposition in Ukraine. It's really clear to everyone that the oligarhat continues to rule our state, that the oligartic forces, they have most of them both in the President's Administration, both in the government and in Parliament, absolutely. Instead, we see the transition to the opposition of our three democratic pro-European political forces: the Fatherland, the Radical Party, and Self-Help. I would like to urge just these democratic forces that say that they are opposition, that they want to unite around themselves, to rid themselves of this eternal Ukrainian hematoma in opposition, including. If we were to think about how to resist an existing oligarhat, we should actually go out with the initiative without the words "joining" that we hear yesterday, for example, in the "1+1" TV show from the self-help I have honored Mr. Berezuk. They're saying what? We are the opposition, all of you join us. Today, today, we hear Oleg Valeriyovich's performance of unification, but he says, "We're the most radical opposition, we're the others there. Come on, let's go." Yesterday, yesterday, yes. Please. We're hearing a speech from Fatherland saying, "We're the right people here, the most opposition themselves." You know, that's what lost it, always lost Ukraine. It's about those crowns that everyone has. Of course, they're so good, the crowns, they're all like, all the great Gehthians, they think they'll be the right ones. Those political forces that are both in Parliament, and perhaps outside Parliament, this is the Freedom Party, this is the U.K.R.P. Party. This is our young political power, People Control, and it also comes out repeatedly with the opposition to become like a cementing mechanism to fight the eternal hematoma of our Ukrainian great leaders who want to take all the medals and wins. If we are with you as the opposition forces, and we are also part of the opposition, at least perhaps a small opposition, but including the opposition forces, we will not unite and make a plan of action, we will not work, and the Radical Party, and Self-Help, and Freedom, and Fatherhood, and National Control, and UCROP, and we will not make our own anti-oligaric plan, where everyone will feel equal, we will reap what the Coalition of the European Ukraine has regretted. That's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u119	Please 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u120	What the European Ukraine Coalition regretted, where there were two great Gehtmans of the People's Front and the WFP, and they usurped power without listening to the little political forces that you were. Don't step on these rakes, please. And I urge all the Ukrainians who are in opposition: let's make a rescue plan for Ukraine from the oligarchic clans next week. And we're ready to join together in equal rights. Only then will we be able to defeat that oligarhat. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u121	Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u122	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! I'm not really going to comment on all of these events that took place in this room yesterday on procedural anti-constitutional assignments. But what I'm going to say is that a few weeks ago, the whole of Ukraine was watching and seeing, in Plainland, in Winterfell, illegal amber production taking place in Volina, the entire vacchanal of how our nature is destroyed and destroyed. And I want to address you immediately, Andriy Volodymyrovich, you hugged the position of speaker yesterday. It is in the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that laws are under consideration that could regulate relations between the state and the guardians. It's in the second reading that we can put into Parliament and adopt the Law on Custodian Activity, which clearly regulates the relationship to create a stock market that will sell to anyone who wants to sell amber cheese at transparent trades. This is a question of recreation, where the Ministry will be obliged to carry out programs for recreational recreation, and this will introduce a new type of activity – this is a custody activity. And if you take today, when the past government, and this one that was assigned yesterday, is going to think about the income part where you take the money to pay off all of our socially vulnerable citizens, I want to say that this is where you can get tens of billions of dollars in revenue. But these two bills need to be considered: passing the Law on Custody and the law that will allow amber to be mined, not by legal persons, but by artillery. I have in my hands the appeal of the professions of the province of Ravenna, the Federation of Trades and Associations is asking once for the Supreme Council to review all the laws that are on registration: this is Law 3203 of the State; this Law 2698 on the Cancellation of the Taxation of Working Pensioners, this is a very shameful tax that taxes working pensioners; this is an indexation of wages and pensions; this is summer recovery; this is a gas rent. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, to put up and consider these bills which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u123	Thank you. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u124	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Respectful citizens are given memory to remember, not to forget. Let's go back to the end of 2014, when this Parliament was elected. The situation was, you've seen, absolutely clear: over 300 votes, constitutional majority, governing coalition, with five factions, and there were people who didn't join the coalition who had the right to be called opposition. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament today, you know, does not fit any European standard. Today, there is a struggle for opposition. See how cool it was, at first they were all in the coalition, they all took responsibility for the government, they all praised it, they were all in power, and then, when the question of responsibility for that power came to pass, immediately three factions went sideways. It's their right, they're right, and it's the right thing to do it. But today there is a struggle, who is the opposition? And I can tell you today where the Opposition Block is, legally, where the Self-Help is, where the Radical Party is, and where the Fatherland is, there's no difference. Do you know why? Because when the Opposition Act was put to the vote in this Parliament, where could they legally assert these rights, what did they do? The governing coalition of five factions overturned the law. And to this day, there is only rhetoric: we are the opposition, and you are not the opposition. I'm proposing a different form of work in Parliament today. Let's all think, people who live outside of Parliament view us as the only body. There are people here who represent different regions. Let us take a civil approach: we will adopt the Opposition Act, and then it will be legislatively clear who belongs to the authority and who belongs to the opposition with its rights. Now, about my speech. I'm not going to talk about health reform today -- it's a mess. First, the one who spoke of her was the minister of health, formerly Kvjetashvili. The biggest problem is that this person said the right things by 90 percent and did nothing at all by 99 percent. She gave birth to hope and water discredited the very idea of reform. The worst part is that patients who are in the hospital do not care what politicians say and who are reforming, they need medication. What do we have today? The Ministry states that the drugs that were to be purchased for cancer patients in 2015 will be available in August 2016. I'm calling on the Ukrainian Security Service today to make sure that you don't search for Flowersville in New York, at the border, don't let this person leave until he's held accountable. Unresponsible attitude toward money laundering. They bought Tamflu in 2009 to fight the flu, and today there are 105,000 packages of terminated ones. Not enough money has been thrown out then, so we need to look for it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u125	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u126	To date, we need to look into the budget to dispose of 105,000 packages -- that's millions of dollars. At the same time, there was not enough money to buy vaccines. Those vaccines that we were promised to buy today satisfy 30 to 40 percent of our population's demand. The full responsibility rests with the minister and with today’s deputy, who was responsible for the legal escort. Mr. Prime Minister, conduct an investigation and hold you responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u127	Ten seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u128	This is my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Ukrainian Security Service and to the Prosecutor's Office to investigate the activities of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u129	Marchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u130	Good afternoon! Alexander Marchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Bila Church, 90 constituency. Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues who are in the hall yesterday, the newly created coalition created an old and new government, I will not make any remarks, analyze or criticize, there are all the self-sufficient people in this room. But I'm concerned that yesterday the declaratory program did not reflect the issue of war and peace in Donetsk, the prime minister of the new one said nothing about it. Yesterday, let's say, the Prime Minister said nothing about the Ministry's actions, nothing about the amber mafia that is. It's just that there's been a slight change in the militia chiefs, nothing said about the "brilliant" prosecutors, nothing said about the inaction, the criminal inaction of the entire system. There is a transformation, a replacement, and crime is on the rise in Ukraine. However, when phrases are made by Andriy Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, of this unification hall, clearly there is no need to associate with shortcomings today. I would like to ask you, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, from all the educated, to the Prime Minister today, to pay first attention to the financing of education as a whole, and today the catastrophic, technical and occupational state of emergency, 50,000 workers have lost their salary, the students of PTU are now without pensions, the undetermined share of the educational institutions of the I-II accreditation level. This is what will bring the entire hall together today. This year, Ukraine will honor and mourn the 30-year-old Chernobyl disaster. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like you to enter the hall. Let's beat the President's veto on these bills. And last of all, I wanted to wish for the new government, members of the coalition, who chose the government to do more investment, economic bills with you. But in no way will this room be united when the government serves the IMF when the government serves the directives of some EU. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for us to agree, there are six minutes left -- this is actually just for two speeches, but I asked that the hall agree to have Igor Lucenko, so that three performances can take place. If there's a general agreement of the hall, three speeches and we're done. We have an hour of intervention under the Rules, and we will act according to the Rules. Vojcitsicka has asked to give the word to Semimen Semenchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u132	Today, the OSCE special monitoring mission has seen further escalation in the situation in eastern Ukraine and the spread of violence to other areas. Ukrainian citizens have the question of whether there is an alternative to the Minsk Agreements and how to ensure security and peace in Ukraine? International support for Ukraine is one of the main instruments to combat the aggression of the Russian Federation, and do we have that support? Attempts to resolve the conflict in Donbass can be clearly divided into two stages: the first phase, from the occupation of Crimea to Minsk, is conditional on what to do with the Russian Federation to stop the aggression and not destroy the world order? It was then that sanctions were imposed against Russia. The second phase is what happened after Minsk: "What do you do with Ukraine to stop the aggression and stop the world order?".. It was then that attempts were made to change Ukraine's Constitution and introduce the so-called “special status” for the so-called ORLO and, more simply, for the occupied territory of Ukraine. In order to stop trying to push terrorists into Ukraine's political field, to stop the violence against the Constitution, to give an alternative to Minsk, we must recognize the occupied territories of Donbass as such legally. A group of people's deputies from Self-Help and other factions have drafted Bill 3593, which clearly calls Russia an occupying party, determines the date on which the occupation begins. This is a real alternative to the elections of traitors and supporters of Russian aggressors to the local authorities of Ukraine, an alternative to amnesty for murderers and marauders, an alternative to the legalization of units so-called "LNR"/ "DNR" in the form of a popular militia, is an alternative to the process of disrupting funds that will be allocated to the reconstruction of Donbass jointly by Ukrainian corruptors and terrorist representatives. The adoption of this law will make it possible to see the true reality, to see the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine through the prism of international law, the so-called “right of war”. This is the only way in the future to make the aggressor compensate for the losses suffered by Ukraine, which is a safeguard against any elections in fully controlled Russian occupations. Another alternative to this bill is the so-called "Donbassian Kingdom", Bill 4297, which was submitted by the Opoblok to Parliament. This abuse of human beings, in fact, involves the establishment of a State in a State with its parliament, the king, the armed forces. Well, the names of “candidates to kings” have already been discussed, including at the level of the President of Ukraine. Our bill on the temporarily occupied territories is now being finalized due to the large number of rights and proposals from social organizations and volunteers. I invite all interested citizens and public organizations to join the working group on the drafting of this bill and the people's deputies to support this bill in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u133	Thank you. Arthur Gerasimov gives the word. Passes the word to Aresonkov. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u134	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. My fellow Members, in your person, I am addressing all the MPs, all the MPs, the non-factional MPs, and I want to thank you for the very important topic that has been raised today in the speeches and representatives of the Radical Party and the Fatherland, which has brought together all the deputies three weeks ago when we were adopted in the second. On the first reading, we adopted Bill 2093 and then voted on it as a whole. This is a bill that determined the return of the social status of the benefits and guarantees to the people affected by the Chernobyl station accident. This is about a law that was returned to the Supreme Council a week ago. He was returned by the President for the insistence of the Ministry of Finance. And the motivation is that there's no 1.5 billion today that's supposed to be needed, that's exactly what it is to make payments for these benefits, compensations, and so on. I want to say that, first of all, it's been misphrased by the financiers, far less than the amount, but much less is needed to solve these issues. And the question now is not even in the money, we've determined where the brothers are, where to find the sources for this funding. The question is that on the eve of the thirtieth anniversary, when we honor those who gave their lives and health, making our lives today, it looks, well, mildly speaking, highly inappropriate, cynical in relation to humans. So today I urge everyone to go back to this subject, next week, to overcome the veto and vote in favour of the law in order for it to enter into force. Today we have calls from a number of areas, we're being warned by public organizations, we're being warned by Chernobyl that protests are being planned, people are dissatisfied, people are indignant. So we have to do everything we can to make the law come into force. If not, we will continue to look for ways to address this issue. But I think we have to do everything we can to make the thirtieth anniversary meet with dignity, with our heads up, and look into the eyes of our neighborhood citizens. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u135	Thank you. And a closing statement, Igor Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your time. My friends were, of course, sad events from the point of view of law, in terms of the purity of our policies. But it was not the only thing that celebrated yesterday. I personally have to inform you and all the Ukrainians and all the Chinese about what happened yesterday at the meeting of the Kiev City Council. By his cynicism, by his loathsomeness, what really happened to me yesterday was much more than any government movement. Yesterday, the so - called detailed plan of the village of Bykowina was approved. Let me remind you: this is a memorial where the remains of the victims of the Stalinic repression, our patriots, will rest. And there's a forest. And in order to tear down this forest, the Kiev authorities had devised such a cynical scheme: to give the families of the dead in the ATO, the families of the fallen heroes of the Celestial 100, the Paralympics, the Afghans there a small fraction, and all the rest to the great builders. When I told Nadia Savchenko's family that they were also assigned to the area, within a few hours, the family in almost full stock appeared to Klick and said, "We don't need this." But unfortunately, other participants in this process failed, and I couldn’t convince them. And unfortunately, yesterday's decision was made. I hope it's not a dot in this story -- it's just a coma -- but it's really very cynical and it's very disgusting to watch. I would like to address those families, especially the families of the Celestial 100, heroes, to remind them of what their relatives and loved ones had died for. They died, I assure you, just so that things like this don't happen in Kiev, so that nature doesn't ruin itself, that corruption doesn't blossom with wild flowers. I hope to find a way out of this situation, and this definitely has to be looking for other areas. Because those splinters, the little splinters, although given as a small bribe to heroes, of course, are not enough for all heroes, we unfortunately have too many dead heroes in Kiev. And we definitely need to look for other areas. And why isn't that happening now? Just to show that only this Bikownian forest is the only way out to meet the law, that is not the truth. And unfortunately, I must mention that Kiev is now surrounded by such conflicts. The forest is destroyed in Volosiovo, the forest near Cotsubinsky is destroyed, and the forests and green plants are destroyed in the city of Kiev itself. Think about it: From 1 hectare in Kiev, more wood is now being cut down than on average in all the forests in Kiev, as if logging were coming. I urge my fellow Members of Parliament to pay one day's attention to our salvation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u137	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u138	Which, unfortunately, is being destroyed at just the pace of the breakup. We have to set aside our time of work and stop this once and, hopefully, forever. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, it's time for the national MPs' speeches "on various issues" to be over. Dear colleagues, this week has not been a simple, difficult week for all of us, but I am sure that Parliament has been able to demonstrate that we are able to accept and respond to the challenges. And last day -- that was the answer to the challenges we faced, the desire to let the country go into chaos -- Parliament demonstrated the ability to give these answers. And I think our big task is to continue to have a high level of responsibility and to have a high level of readiness, together and together, to decide when these decisions are decisions that concern national and national interests. I would like to announce the adjournment of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 19th, at 10 a.m. And I'm asking all deputies that at 10 o'clock we can start an active and active job on Tuesday. Thank you all very much again, good-bye.
