ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, please take up jobs, we're going to have a check-in. Please. So, colleagues, please register and please conduct the registration. [[10:04:15]] 339 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the Day of Local Self - Rule. Let's welcome all our communities on this day so that our reforms in support of local self-government and decentralization can help the communities, and we can raise to a new quality level of local self-government in Ukraine. Welcome, fellows! I would also like to report that today we have 30 minutes of speeches by national MPs, not by factions, but by national deputies, according to the record, I would like to stress. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. Please record. George Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. The whole country knows that our President has promised Europe baldwood, and Ukraine has lost its visas. He wants us to cancel the moratorium for 60 million Euro credit, not even aid, but credit, and allow us to take out our forest round. The will political party insists that we have no right to trade our Ukrainian forest for a loan of 600 million, as the government wants. Not enough, land and nature is not what we have inherited, it's what we rent in our future generations. We can't leave our children out of the woods, we can't leave our children without land without high-quality land in exchange for a loan of 600 million euros. The Will Party is in favour of saving the moratorium on the roundwood. What's more, instead of the suspension of the moratorium that the President and the authorities are talking about today, we need to improve this moratorium. Why? Because they continue to import roundwood into Europe, even in the fields that are now banned, in the form of wood. Think about it: more than 30 percent of the increase in exports of wood and beech and oak are the species that are banned today. The Will Party has developed and submitted to Parliament Bill 5471, which proposes to ban the export of wood and to put into effect moratoriums on the export of forest according to the WTO requirements, precisely in accordance with the WTO requirements. Therefore, the adoption of the bill will be the only right decision for a recent statement by the European Union demanding that the moratorium be lifted. We have to admit that there is a huge threat to the extreme environmental situation in Ukraine. In the past, the number of land covered by the forest in Ukraine was 44 percent. Now it's only 11-15 percent, at the same time that the number of such lands in Europe is about 35 percent. We're the least wooded country in Europe. Europe is protecting its forest, but it wants to use ours. Many countries have such a violent situation, and they have made decisions this very year. We have to make a decision to impose trade restrictions, and if that is the case. for the conservation of natural resources that are exhausted if these measures are applied together with restrictions on domestic production or consumption. That's what I've quoted as "g" in chapter XX of the General Agreement on Tariffs, which was used by 35 countries around the world. Norway, Albania, Romania, Moldova benefited. Ladies and gentlemen, we must save our Ukrainian forest. This requires a legal level: first, to identify the threat of an emergency in the forest; second, to extend the moratorium on the export of wood; and third, to increase criminal responsibility for illegal logging, from 10 to 15 years; and fourth, to ensure the procurement procedure for forest production. And most importantly, let's not be able to destroy the Ukrainian forest together. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Judge Alexander Alexandrovich. Transmits the word Anointed One. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u4	Good morning. Good morning, dear colleagues. Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, recently, on December 2, the British newspaper The Independent published shocking confessions by fugitive deputy Alexander Oneshchenka about his involvement in other high-ranking corruption crimes aimed at the implementation of a large-scale information campaign against People's Front leader Arsenius Yatsenuk and our entire People's Front faction team. The same has been demonstrated how 30 million dollars can be used less than 10 months to use black technologies in conspiracies with impure civil servants and high-level owners, thus implementing a cynical plan to discredit effective pro-European politicians in the eyes of our fellow citizens. These funds were spent, first of all, to conduct anti-government actions, protests, to bribe the media with the aim of distributing publications of a custom-made nature against Arsenius Yatsenuk, the government's leader and the People's Front faction. Onishenko pointed out that other national MPs were involved in the subversive activity against our political power, about 70 of whom could now be present in this room. According to Oneshchenka, he also described the cynicism of his remarks in The Independent as being that he paid $6 million to become a national deputy and to take away all the disagreements and get this position to protect his gas business. I don't think such facts should be. The facts of corruption should not be overlooked by law enforcement agencies, and the law enforcement authorities should assess such facts and information, and all guilty persons should bear all responsibility with all the cruelty of our legislation. So it was yesterday that a group of members of the People's Front faction visited the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, demanding to verify the facts of insolent political corruption involving Alexander Onishchenko, to find out who the buyers, performers and those who funded the Black Piare against the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and to establish all the conditions of corruption and to bring the guilty to justice. We hope that the Anti-Corruption Bureau, as the new anti-corruption body, will bring information to the GDR and will take all necessary action to investigate this criminal case, these terrible criminal offenses of corrupt and guilty persons to bring them to justice. I would like to stress that Arsenius Yatsenuk's personality and the entire People's Front team have been discredited for more than ten months on purpose. In particular, we remember the statements made by the former head of the Gordienka Derjfininspection, which proved to be an exclusive lie, and this is what the Attorney General claims. We remember Alexia Mochanov’s charge of receiving 1 billion Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u6	Mochanov's getting Yatzenuk a mythical billion, of which he then apologized and said that it was unknown to the customer again. We remember the destructive criticism of the former headmaster of the Odessa administration for criticizing Arsenius Yatzenyuk in order to obtain the prime minister’s office, and we remember many other items. And now we demand from this high rostrum not only the fair investigation of political corruption in the higher echelons of power but also the disclosure of names to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Drauk. Surrenders the word Yuri Berezi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! You know, when we talk about political corruption, this corruption starts with this room. When we don't go to work, instead of being present in the hall, voting, enacting laws, discussing, and at this point we start to decide, for example, the issue of discrediting the previous government. Of course, when three million dollars a month goes by, when the funding goes on for ten months, and it is undoubtedly quite pleasant and quite comfortable. But I want to address all the national MPs. What if these 30 million were used in the Ukrainian army? What if these 30 million were used to support Ukrainian pensioners? You know, it's sad enough, it's sad enough to look at this room when it's half empty. And even on the day of the vote, when everything seems to have been arranged when we are in the order of the day's military laws, the laws that will allow us to win the war declared by Russia, this hall is empty. This hall is half empty. You know, it's a major shame. I am addressing those national MPs who, in their armies in the villages and cities of Ukraine, tell how their political powers are concerned about the fate of the state, how their political leaders are concerned about the fate of the common man. In fact, it's a complete lie. Ukrainian people! We've got a war going on. And this war will stop only the Ukrainian people. We have nothing to count on for any help from a civilized or uncivilized world. In fact, only the Ukrainian people will stop the war. Only the Ukrainian army will stop the war. It is sad, therefore, that when laws are in place to allow the Ukrainian army to win this undeclared war, we remain silent. We don't find 226 votes. I want to look separately at the newly created organizations. And I have this proposal. Who are called to fight corruption. The funding for the following year of these organizations will be provided by the money that Janukovich stole. And to link the financing of all anti-corruption structures only to the Law on Confiscation! And that's the answer. And this will be your job, gentlemen of the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u10	If we don't get together in this room and start adopting the laws that are necessary for today's Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian army, then speak the streets. Then there will be no salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u11	Thank you. The national deputy Golovko gives the word to Andrew Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u12	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! I would like to draw attention to the question, more specifically, even to remind everyone here of the questions that all the factions that are now in Parliament, all without exception, and all the MPs, I'm sure, who went to the elections in major districts, promised their electorate to resolve immediately. And unfortunately, this isn't the first time they've promised to do it in the first election, and some people have probably promised to do it the tenth time they've promised to do it -- this is to cancel the MP's immunity. And we've seen that when it comes to specifics, there are some problems, especially in this Parliamentary Chamber, and in this Parliament's Regulatory Committee. Because yesterday we know that the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council did not support the application of the Attorney General's Office to remove Mr. Novinski's inviolability. And today we see that there are major problems with this issue in the Ukrainian Supreme Council. And here we must also turn to the Supreme Council for the matter to finally be put to the vote. I mean, not just removing the immunity from the specific MPs on which the application is, but basically eliminating this institution of inviolability. Because the Supreme Council had already voted in its first reading a corresponding bill of amendments to the Constitution, then there was a decision by the Constitutional Court that allowed us to continue the changes to the Constitution. And actually, now all you have to do is put it in a second reading. I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council: please put this question to the vote. Let's do it tomorrow, Thursday. And then every deputy, every faction, every major, every other MP will show his own vote on this issue. Because if someone felt that there was no need to cancel the parliamentary immunity, that would have to be said before the elections. With such slogans, go to the polls, vote, and then do not vote. We have to stop this lie, we have to stop the manipulation, we have to finally answer for what we said. And so I ask that this question be put to a vote in the near future, so that each MP can express his or her position during the vote, and that everyone can then answer for himself, not say, "I'm going to vote so good, but the others don't vote." Here we will see who is voting, and then all the cards will be opened to all the Ukrainian people, and everyone will see who is who. That's why I'm offering it. I ask and demand that it be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u13	Wojciekhov Svetlana Mikhailovna, "The People's Front", passes to Oleg Medunica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u14	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, People's Front. Last night, we had a meeting room right here in the session room, and we had an extra assembly of the "For the European Content" group. And these successive congregations have only considered one question: this is a situation that has taken place in an enterprise called VAT. It is more commonly known under the brand of machine - built merger by the Frunze Factory. This is one of the leading flags of Ukrainian heavy machinery, which is now experiencing difficult times as a result of the loss and restriction of protection by the Russian Federation. The fact is that this firm has won an order from the state to reconstruct the Ukrainian gas transport system for the reconstruction of three compressor stations in an honest tender. Tenders were run by Crushergas. But unfortunately, Naftogaz, under the assumption that the South Stream is being built, has reversed the results of this tender. We don't understand why a state-owned company is running a tender, and then a bag of car builders are winning it, and then another state-owned enterprise is canceling it. Almost 10,000 people work in this company. These are 30,000 families that may be out of bread tomorrow, out of work. In his day, the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, despite the difficult financial situation in the state two years ago, had found the opportunity to compensate fully, to a penny, all the taxes on the value added for the sum of car builders. Instead, the company’s management assumed the obligation to pay off wages, debts, and local taxes. Unfortunately, debt and axis are. And we also demand that the management of this company, which is linked to one of the Russian oligarchs who has now accepted Ukrainian citizenship, do everything possible to make sure that this state money, which I believe we, the Deputy of the Custodian, return to the Frunze factory, goes, not offshore, but to cash builders' salaries and local taxes debts. Because right now we have no choice but to support our manufacturers. Yesterday, you and I received a message from the Prime Minister saying that we had already begun to pay off the debt in the South Carbuilding Plant, where we gave you and me 400 million dollars to pay off the payroll debt. I'm convinced that the cashiers don't ask for government money, they don't ask for budget money, they ask them to give them where they can legally earn money. This is a reconstruction of the Ukrainian gas transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u16	With hands and head, and with the talent of the sum of machine builders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u17	Cooper, say the word "Lyashka."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! For a year and a half, our team and our faction in Parliament fought to raise the minimum wage for you, dear Ukrainians. We did it yesterday. Parliament voted on the decision to double the minimum wage. All those who have not voted in favour of this decision do not care because they do not live on this minimum wage. And when someone tells me that 3200 is the minimum that every Ukrainian gets from the new year, you don't have to do that, you try to live for 1 thousand 200 or 1 thousand 600 who get 4 million Ukrainians. That's why 4 million people: cleaners, drivers and whole other categories of citizens living on a minimum, get a minimum wage of 1 thousand 600 dollars, get a new year's salary of 3200. And I'm proud that our team has made this decision. And I'm just sorry that the government's been through this for so long. I persuaded Prime Minister Yatsenuk to do so, and I persuaded Prime Minister Groysman to do so, it took him a year and a half to convince him of the obvious things. What if we want to rebuild the economy, if we want to launch the purchasing power of citizens, we need to give them money. The main thing is that the Ukrainians need work and pay today. And wages are not a penny that they can’t survive on, but wages so that they can feed their family at least a little. Thus, 3,200 is the minimum wage that no one in Ukraine will receive from the new year. This is an extremely important decision. But that is not enough. We have another half a million Ukrainians, pensioners who receive less than a thousand dollars of pension, so called 947 dollars of social pension. Now we're trying to get the government to raise this pension, to set it at a level not below the minimum of living, which is one and a half thousand dollars, and to index it to the inflation index. Someone's going to tell me that there were a thousand and a half pensions, too. Yeah, baby. But the 947 dollars received today by half a million Ukrainians are even smaller. And if it's a question of adding 500 dollars to people's pension or not, I'll do it and add it. Today 500 ladies, tomorrow 500 ladies, the day after 500 ladies -- and finally people will get normal pensions, and normal wages. I realize that most people in the room are not interested in minimum pensions or wages or tariffs because they do not live on these minimum pensions and wages. Ukrainians live on incomes that they cannot make ends meet. Therefore, the Radical Party protects the interests of not the oligarchs, not the corrupts who carry money suitcases in this room, the Radical Party protects the interests of the Ukrainians. Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Boyko gives the floor to the people's deputy, Dobrenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u20	Hello, respectable colleagues! Respectable territorial communities! Regrettably, previous speakers spoke of any matter other than issues and problems related to local self-government. I personally and the faction of the Opposition Block congratulates the territorial communities on this holiday, wishing to strengthen them financially, to be self-sufficient and never to stand in line in Kiev to receive further grants and additional money for the development of their territorial infrastructure projects. Regrettably, however, there are very few reasons for joy in the territorial communities today for this day, it would seem that local self-government is the foundation of the Ukrainian Statehood, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. But those laws that are so rudimentary now speak of both the so-called opposition factions and the factions that form part of the coalition that voted on the basis of Bill 5131 yesterday speak of another. The bill provides for a reduction and a more precise elimination of full educational subsidies, the elimination of full medical subsidies from the State budget to support the development of local communities. What do they offer in return? They propose that these costs be transferred to local self-government, so we understand decentralization in a specific way. Tomorrow, in the voting of Bill 5132, it is proposed that part of the excise tax on sales of GSM (heat, oil and lubricants) be removed and that the excise tax be transferred to the level of excise duty. What does that mean? This means that the local self-government body is deprived of one of the financial mechanisms for the administration of this tax and for the formation of the income part of the local budget. That is how we mean decentralization, so we mean assistance to our territorial communities. We believe that the opposition bloc faction, which did not vote in favour of Bill 5131, will not support Bill 5132 tomorrow. Since these bills have nothing to do with decentralization and increased financial autonomy. It's all propaganda. In beautiful words, unfortunately, we mask the action, and the current power masks the centralization of these costs, so as to destroy the remnants of local self-government. Here, some politicians who have shouted for not supporting the bill of some factions of 5130 on minimum wages, we are taking concrete action, as opposed to words. We have registered Bill 5130-1, which has not even given us the opportunity to vote. The bill not only provides for an increase in the minimum wage but also for a percentage increase, a proportional increase in the entire tariff network. This increase in minimum wage is not possible. Not from pensioners who still receive minimum pensions, but a proportional increase in all minimum wages throughout the tariff network, as proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u21	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Anatoly Denisenko, non-factional. National MP Anatoly Denisenko. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u22	I give the word Pisarenko Valeria Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u23	Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! In fact, first of all, we would like to welcome the local self - government with their festival today. I hope there are good reasons for optimism today and pessimism for local self - control. But unfortunately, we've been talking a lot lately about decentralization, but in time. It's probably becoming more degraded in certain areas at times. The preceding adoptions of the state budget and the laws that we started to consider yesterday can be said that, in fact, the laws that we are going to need to adopt now in second reading bear a very important burden for the regions. And it's a huge burden on the local budgets if we take them in the same line that was presented here yesterday by the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, unfortunately, survival reform has been the only successful reform in the regions. And, in fact, both humans and regions are still surviving, despite much talk about decentralization, but so far only functions and responsibilities are being dropped. Kharkiv deputies made their proposals for the formation of a state budget, taking into account the interests of Kharkiv and Kharkiv. If we want to see a strong and prosperous Ukraine, we need to provide financial regions and create real competition between regions. In this regard, we stress the need to take seriously the financing of public services, education, and health services in the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv. Moreover, such expenditure should not be a financial burden on local budgets, what they are trying to do today. We want to get the country back to the '90s when schools stand without light and heat? Now there's a very painful question that's urgent not only for the Harkowians, it's the repayment of the debt in the difference between the housing and utility tariffs that were given to the population. To resolve these issues, it is essential for the stable operation of utilities that provide daily service to the city of one and a half million people. Also, I would like to predict in the budget the cost of repaying the differences in tariffs of 1.2 billion dollars. Next, the financing of the extended passage of individual categories of citizens, the local budget of Kharkiv, requires 450 million dollars. Finally, the issue of the security of the Kharkivs remains relevant, 208 million dollars need to be allocated for the completion of the construction of a civilian defence facility on the site from the Alexiyivska Metro Station to the newly created "Prospekt of Victory" Station. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention, we would like to support all the demands of the region and invite everyone to Kharkiv so that you can see for yourself how Ukrainian cities can develop, where the main slogan is: to love Harks and work for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u25	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u26	Madam Chairman, respectable citizens of Ukraine! This is an official address to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Yesterday a figure of criminal conduct by a national MP, Oneshchenko, released the first audio recording from a so-called phone booth, where the fugitive Oneshenko and a voice similar to the voice of his colleague in the Parliament of Olesia Long, discuss a way in which power can help Onechenko escape justice. This record may, in fact, be the first evidence of a major corruption plot at the highest level in the country, which shows that key decisions in our country are approved in the interests of a narrow circle of people. The "Demalians" political party calls on the NABU to immediately launch a public record check by Oneshchenkom, as well as other statements made by the gas oligarch in the media. I want to remind you: Demaljansu Deputy Mustafa Nayem, my colleague Sergei Lechchenko, Victoria Birdschnik have repeatedly publicly claimed the role of Olesia Long in Parliament as a person who decides individual votes for the President and other political players. We would also like to remind you that, during the election campaign for Parliament in 2014, Olez Dougy, who traveled through the Kirovograd area, was using the patronage of the President's Administration. The possible criminal actions of Deputy Oneshchenka in the gas field and individual allegations of his ties with the Russian services should not be a hindrance to the full investigation of his claims of total corruption of the highest officials in Ukraine. "Demalians" requires a new investigation into corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is over. One more. All right, come on, but one minute. We have one more minute. I was walking, "The Rebirth Party." We have zero, zero, zero on the board. Walking gives you one minute to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u29	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. As a former force head, I would like to congratulate everyone on the strong heads of the cities of today's great holiday. You know, it's our fence, the village councils that. We're all going before the election. I would just like to wish that, here we are, the deputies sitting in the hall who come to them before the elections, that we all do what we say when we do before the elections. I would like to say that Law 4355, which will be considered on the ground tomorrow, is indeed not very perfect. But he will give some opportunity to united communities, local communities to exercise their land authority. And when some grandmother comes to the head and asks for something, a strong head can say, "Yes, I can do it!".. With celebrations, strong heads and mayors of cities! Have a good one!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor. So I want to tell you that we are. On a day-to-day basis, we will have the first question: this is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world for the recognition of the Holocaust. And I very much ask all the heads of factions and the secretariat to invite deputies into the hall so that we can address this issue in the hall with a quorum. Now I've been approached by two factions -- the Radical Party faction and the Self-Help faction -- to announce the break, but they're ready to replace the break with a standoff. Who will act? Yegor Sobolev. I'll give you three minutes to speak to Egor Sobolev, and then we'll move on to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u31	It has been 33 days since Parliament has been unable to determine whether or not to give consent to the removal of Vadim Novinski’s parliamentary immunity. While the Attorney General does not even request an arrest, only to bring an MP to criminal responsibility. But for 33 days this Parliament is covering one of its members. I want to ask you, how are we going to investigate the President's crimes, which are getting more and more information about them? And how are we going to keep the promise that every political party has made -- that the MP's immunity will be completely lifted? Self-help has developed a bill that solves this problem forever. He requires Parliament to always agree for seven days to bring an MP to criminal responsibility, detention or arrest, depending on what the Attorney General asks. He allows the MP himself to give up the MP's inviolability. Finally, under our law, we propose to block the act of foreign passports of a deputy if Parliament has been given the opportunity to bring him to criminal responsibility by the Attorney General's Office. Nemo est supra legem – no one is above the law – is an ancient truth that has been invented. Roman law must become the dominant in this room. As long as the Supreme Council does not vote on the removal of the New York MP's immunity, Self-Help will not continue to take part in any vote. You have enough time and desire to share taxpayers’ money, but you cannot gather to allow justice to become a reality for one national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u32	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda, colleagues. I'd like to invite you into the hall again. The question of recognizing hunger. I'm asking you to stay in the National Assembly Hall. We are moving on to the draft Order on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Democratic States of the World on the Recognition of the Holodomor of 1932-1933 in Ukraine by the Crime of the Genocide of the Ukrainian People. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider this motion in summary procedure, my colleague. Please support and please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please support me. [[10:41:56]] For-126 Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Please, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Today we have a question of local self - government. If we get into full reading, we may not have a chance on the day of local self-government to get to the point of local self-government. So I'm asking everyone to focus, to take jobs. If there are no votes, of course we will follow the full procedure. But I would like to support the position of the Committee on Short-Term Review. Please, I'll put it to the vote again. Please support the motion for a review of Decree 3525 by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:43:05]] For 139 There is no political will in the hall. Put it back up again? Okay. Let's wait 30 seconds. I'm asking colleagues of the people's deputies who are now in the towers to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall and also the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to re-supply the motion for a reduced procedure. If we don't have enough votes, we're going to go over the full procedure. Let's focus, please. Please take up your jobs. And I'm once again putting to the vote the 3525 motion for a reduced procedure. Please support me, colleagues, and I ask you to vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:44:26]] For-143 The decision is not taken. We're moving on to a full procedure. And I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u33	Thank you. This address was registered in our Parliament a year ago when we celebrated the next anniversary of the death of our fellow citizens during the great Holocaust of the 32-33 years. During the year, the address was in the Ukrainian Parliament. But now it's time to vote for him. There are several reasons for this. We ask the parliaments of other countries to accept the Holocaust as genocide, as the Ukrainian Parliament has done, as the parliaments of many of our allies have done. Now in times of Russian aggression, this is particularly important for Ukraine and for every Ukrainian citizen. We don't have the resources an aggressor has. We don't have Russia Tuday, millions to bribe political parties in European countries. We have a powerful history, we have the tragedy of our people, which has become one of the greatest European tragedies in the 20th century. That is why this appeal is important. It will signal to our ambassadors, our diplomatic service to actively start negotiations in those countries where they represent Ukraine, about the need to recognize the Holocaust by genocide in all countries of the world. I want to read that address right now. The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world for the recognition of the 33-33 years of the Holocaust in Ukraine as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Ukraine experienced a terrible tragedy in 1932-1933 -- a famine that took millions of lives. The criminal and communist totalitarian regime through the violent removal of food, the blockade of villages and entire areas, the ban on going outside the country’s hunger-stricken borders, the collapse of rural trade, the repression of nonconformists deliberately created for the Ukrainians such living conditions as were intended for their physical destruction. This regime policy is a crime against humanity in accordance with the UN Convention of 9 December 1948 on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The Supreme Council of Ukraine recognized the genocide against the Ukrainian people as a crime of 28 November 2006 by the Act on the Holocaust 1932-1933 in Ukraine, and the Law on the Condemnation of the Communist and National Socialist, Nazi, Totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and the prohibition of the propaganda of their symbolism of 9 April 2015 condemned the communist and totalitarian regime as criminal. In 1932-1933 the totalitarian regime hid from crimes behind the wall of propaganda and lies. Over the coming decades, the regime has tried not only to hide the truth about the Holocaust in Ukraine but also to destroy its memory forever. It was dangerous not only to write about it in the press, in letters to party leaders, or relatives abroad, but even to mention it in private daily life. Any unwary record could ruin life, pour out in decades of gulag camps. Yet, despite all the dangers of the most difficult times, there were people who, feeling responsible for the next generation, could not remain silent. Well, here's enough to mention James Mace, who came to Ukraine and first began to explore the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust in Ukraine and many other researchers of this terrible tragedy, just like those who betrayed their professional duty and actually, at the request of the Stalin regime, closed their eyes deliberately to what was happening here during those terrible years of tragedy. I'm going on with my appeal. The USSR leadership has blocked all information about the real situation in Ukraine, and it has deliberately disoriented the world's public. Nevertheless, some foreign journalists who were surrounded by the Iron Curtain of Hunger in Ukraine managed their publications to tell the world the truth about the crime of killing millions of people. We today call them people of truth. They are journalists, public figures, artists, politicians, the democratic world, and ordinary Ukrainian peasants. Some published articles in the free press, others described what was seen and experienced in the journals, or simply photographed the horror that is happening around them. They believed their record of truth was important to confronting the evil that kills millions of people. Their efforts have helped to preserve information about one of the worst crimes in human history — the Holocaust. Years later, this information became one of the causes of the collapse of the Communist regime, which was destroyed by an independent Ukraine. Today, Ukraine has again fallen victim to the aggression of the Stalinic followers of the Kremlin. Ukraine is opposed not only to aggression from the east but also to a massive informational flood of lies. The aggressor rebuilds the propaganda wall to cover up his crimes. And today, as well as eight decades ago, Ukraine needs the word of truth, so that the world knows. "For the world to know," those words were relevant to those who spoke and wrote in 1933, and that's how they still remain. It is very important for us that outside Ukraine we know what is happening to us. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, honoring the memory of those killed by famine, expresses its deep appreciation to all those who have broken through the Communist totalitarian regime’s iron curtain of propaganda and lies, to all those who have kept in mind the tragedy that the Ukrainian people have experienced, to all those who have been recovering from the Holocaust. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also expresses its gratitude to all the nations of the world who today support our nation in opposition to the aggressor. He expresses his gratitude to all who today are telling the truth about events in Ukraine to the world’s public. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the nations of the world to recognize Holodomor from 1932 to 33 years in Ukraine as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Our shared memory of past crimes is a guarantee of their unrepetitive future. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on November 25, 2015 (Protocol 25 of 25). 11.2015) examined a draft of the Supreme Council Regulation on the Referral of the Supreme Council to the Democratic States of the World on the Recognition of the Holodomor 1932-1933 in Ukraine by the Crime of the Genocide of the Ukrainian People. Hannah Hopko and Victoria Sumar also co-sponsored the bill. Taking into account the relevance of the issue and its important and social and political resonance, the Ukrainian National Deputies and members of the Committee have decided once again to remind the world community of the genocide of the Ukrainian people, a tragic page in the history of humanity and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u34	Thank you. Please ask the reporter. Mr. Mikolo, stay. We have three minutes to question the reporter, and I'm asking you to record a question, please. Please, Vladimir Litwin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I have carefully read this address, and as a person who understands some of the historical issues, I have a question for you. In particular, please refer to the names of scientists and experts involved in the preparation of this address. Just please do not refer to politicians from other institutions. I mean the representatives of the Institute of History of Ukraine who are deeply involved in this problem. I can name two names: Kulčicki and Jefimenko. Did they have anything to do with the preparation of this document, and was this document in line with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since it was an appeal to the international community? And finally. So that it would be born into another butterfly, which we've already received here in dozens, which we haven't quite written.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u36	Thank you. I'll start with the second question. This document was not only in line with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but was sent to the Hall, including at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which asked us to adopt such a document to give clear directives to our ambassadors, and I said this in my address to intensify the work on the recognition of the Holocaust by genocide in parliaments of other countries. This is particularly relevant and important for the authorities of the State and especially for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the opposition to the information aggression of the Russian Federation, which is not only an aggressor in direct war, but an aggressor in a hybrid war, now distorting information at its expense about our terrible history in other countries. Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked that it be accepted on an urgent basis. As far as cooperation with historians is concerned. I know Mr. Kulczytsky personally very well, I know his work, I've talked to him a lot. We have a certain mechanism for addressing, we have an authority of state -- the Institute of National Memory, which works closely with the Institute of History.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u37	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u38	prepares the relevant documents. And the document says that it is prepared in conjunction with the Institute of National Memory, and it cooperates with the Institute of History. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Iris Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u40	Please give the word to Alexander the Brigin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, surely this bill should be adopted, I don't doubt it. What I'd like to say is that our Petra Dustenka faction, of course, will accept it and I'd just like to give you figures that might impress everyone when they say how many people died in one minute during the famine. That's 17 people per minute. This means that our session hall would die in 25 minutes and Kiev would die in four months. This was such a painful problem, and the fact that Russian propaganda, Soviet propaganda throughout its existence, has led to the fact that people in the world do not really understand the processes that took place in Ukraine at the time. We can make amends by making this decision. So I don't have a question, but a call for everyone to support this bill, this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u42	Thank you. And the last question is, Marchenko gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u43	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the decision must be made because it is not just a matter of historical memory, it is a matter of national honor and our present. Because we understand that the enemy who destroyed the Ukrainians during the famine, and I remind them that there were three of them, including one postwar Holocaust already, the same enemy is going to our land today under the same slogans. And on the part of our land, temporarily occupied, the Ukrainians continue to be destroyed, just as they did in the 20th century. That is why it is necessary and necessary to bring the truth to the world's societies in order to make it clear that genocide is a crime that is not an age-old crime and that, in its moral horror, cannot be in some degree a degree where some genocides are recognized by the world community, and that is right, it must be done, but for others, there is some silence, politics, double morality and so on. I think that everyone should be equally respected internationally for the victims of genocide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Of course, I support what Andrew Illenko has just said. Of course, how other countries, and we are constantly confronted with it, even in our Committee on Culture and Spirituality, we see other countries addressing us about the recognition of the genocides of those tragedies that have occurred with their peoples at one stage or another, and we have accepted such petitions, and we have accepted such statements. Of course, we have to be much more active here. And that's why I want to thank every MP who's in this room right now, regardless of political views and beliefs, and call on those who aren't here. Come, vote, repay to those who died in 1932-1933 and those who continue to die on our fronts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. Thank you for your report. The committee’s co - report invites the committee’s head in the foreign affairs of Hanna Hopko. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u47	You can, colleagues, turn on the slide, show it. Dear Ukrainians, honourable chairman! Today it is an extremely important decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world for the recognition of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I'd like to show you today an article by the famous British journalist Garrett Jones, who for the first time in the British press then called hunger in Ukraine a planned terror and genocide organized by Bolsheviks led by Stalin. The civilized world at that time was represented by the League of Nations, the first inter-State organization to ensure cooperation, peace and security among peoples. It was then that our Ukrainian officials, various institutions, appealed to this organization, demanding that they intervene and stop the extermination of the entire nation. In early September 1933, Ukrainians from the so-called free world went to Geneva, where the headquarters of the League of Nations was, in accordance with all the requirements of international law, to reach a decision. But the time chosen by the Ukrainians to resolve the issue was extremely unfavorable. The representatives of the great nations, particularly France and England, did not want to address this issue in order not to aggravate their relationship with the Soviet Union. At that time, the free world knew perfectly what was going on in the prisons of the nations, but it was silent when millions starved to death. And here you see this article right now, where the name sounds very simple: "There's no bread." And Garrett Jones, if you look at it, published in the British press, there were not many journalists who came to the Soviet Union and wrote true words. There was another journalist, Durandius, who, at the invitation of the Soviet Union, refused but to lie to the world. He did not see millions of children starve to death, families who were swollen, and who did not know what to do. He didn't see this tragedy, he was just lying. And that's why today I wanted us to make this appeal to the democratic states of the world. Because the truth about Holodomor must be in order for the world to cease to be so tough and to prevent new disasters. We also know that another American researcher, James Mace, who wrote the book "Your Dead Chosen Me." He learned Ukrainian, he taught at the Kiev-Magilian Academy. He told the world about these tragic pages. Recently, while in Italy with our official delegation, we met another professor at the Italian University, who published the entire book on the Holocaust as genocide and the Stalinic repression. So I'd like to ask the world today because now more than 20 nations have classified the Holocaust as genocide, that's very little, very little before millions of innocently dead people. And that's why I wanted our address to give our diplomats in the various capitals of the world the opportunity to go to parliaments, to governments, to take a more proactive stand for recognition in 2017, and by 2018, to the 85th anniversary, I hope very much that many parliaments, and particularly the Israeli Knesset, because when the speaker of Parliament, Knesset, came here to Kiev, we made one of our demands very harshly: if we want to continue to develop bilateral relations, we are also counting that our Israeli colleagues recognize the Holocaust as genocide. And we're going to make an effort to do that. I'd like to thank the diaspora representatives who have invested $20 million to make the movie "The High Harvest" that will soon be on the screen, and there will be a world-wide demonstration of the modern film, the film "The Gladmore." These are the efforts we had long ago to make. Now that Ukrainian cinema is being reborn, we see the first films, like "The Living," we see "The Dove's Nest," a lot of other movies. I think it's also our duty to show the world the truth through film, through the families of those who have died, who have become victims. And so, colleagues, I would like to say that today's UN. It is very much and difficult for us to rule out the fact that Russia has committed aggression, and to take the veto that Russia has the right to murder, especially this week, they have blocked the decision on truce, so I urge each of you — our sacred duty — to vote in favour of this decision and to mention those people who have fallen victim to Stalin, the victim of that communist regime, and so that our next generations never have to experience one of the greatest tragedies in Europe. And that's why I wanted to thank all the parliamentarians today, Mr. Knieżicki, Sumar. Thanks also to our diaspora, thanking all the Ukrainians and telling them what we remember. And if we remember, this tragedy will never happen again. And to thank those journalists of truth from around the world who, contrary to that time, came to Ukraine and, without fear, wrote about this truth. These are real allies of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Please stay in the rostrum. Please return to the rostrum. Three minutes of question-answer. And I'd like you to record a question to the co-rapporteur. Please. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u49	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Anna Mikolayevna, more complement to your suitable thesis. You mentioned Duranti. He, by the way, at the end of his career confessed and confessed, and wrote several powerful articles on truth and events that were in 32-33 in Ukraine. I think we need to expand our search for those people and those countries who have to recognize the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people and really direct this call to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to keep this work going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u50	If you don't mind, a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u51	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u52	I think now that we're looking at the 2017 budget, it's important for us to start a separate article in the 2017 budget at the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, in order to take steps to celebrate the Holocaust around the world, so that diplomats have the opportunity and demonstrate a film that has been filmed by our diaspora, the High Harvest, and in order to be able to work with different governments, to take various educational measures to make this truth heard, and then not to be heard. Because we see Moscow intervene and block decisions in different states so that it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Welcome to Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u54	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u55	Oleg Musei, National Control political party. Mrs. Hanna, of course, is either full or half true. I would like to ask you why you refer to Italian researchers, to English researchers. And we know, we Ukrainians, that we had three famines in Ukraine, and that was genocide in our mind too. Is it true that the genocide of Ukrainians in the form of a famine of 1921-1923, where almost 4 million people died, is not genocide? Did the famine of 1946-1947, where nearly 2 million people died, not genocide? So maybe let's somehow unite and tell the whole truth to all society, not just the partial truth of the greatest genocide 32-33! What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. 2017 will be a symbolic year for us. It's going to be a century from when in the war for independence 1917-1921 we've been programmed through the internal struggle of the elite. And we're out of state. And after losing statehood, it led to mass repression, mass famines that you mentioned, including the artificial famine that Stalin organized for 32-33 years. And so it is very important for us now to remember the lessons of history so that in 2017, because of another political instability that our fellow humans will take advantage of, we can lose our statehood again. And don't let the tragic pages happen again, God. That is why I fully support the way we remember, recognize, and acknowledge. And there are a lot of worthy historians in Ukraine, a lot of publications, like the "Day" newspaper, which devotes a lot of publications to Ukrainian, English. But it was important for me to focus on those foreign researchers to show that we have allies, and we need to increase the number of people in the foreign states of the world who have long understood and bear the truth that famine is genocide. There is no other truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u57	Thank you. And one last question. Igor Mosiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u58	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. First of all, I have an appeal to the head of our Parliament. Dear Mr. Andrey, I beg you, I even demand that you publish a list of missing persons in the National Deputies Hall. Because the time will come, and the candles will go to the Memorial, and the crocodile tears will be poured. I understand when there's no Boyka in this room, running, God told him to. But when there's no faction leaders who like to scream about patriotism and wear embroidery from Louis Vuitton, I have a question for you too, Mrs. Hanna. Please tell me what is being done by the Committee and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to acknowledge the Holocaust as the genocide of the Duke of the State of Israel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u59	Thank you very much for this question. In particular, on our visit to the Speaker, our delegation at all meetings made it very clear by summarizing the 25-year diplomatic relationship between Ukraine and Israel. That the further development of our relationship should be based on the truth. And it is important for us to take this decisive step when the Knesset does not postpone the consideration of the decree registered with them, in the Parliament of Israel, and when they finally make this historic decision. We plan to continue our visit. Now, according to Anton Heraszczenko’s initiative, there are stories about families, Jewish families, who were also victims of the Holocaust genocide. To show that the Holocaust and its victims were representatives of the different nations that were then in Ukraine. That it's not just a question of the Ukrainians. And I wanted to thank the Radical Party, and I wanted to say in general that this year, during the Memorial celebration, the largest number of deputies present was from the Radical Party. And invite other colleagues. This day once a year! It was sad that the representatives of the diplomatic corps were more than the national deputies during the celebration! And I think this is the day we should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Question time is complete. Colleagues, there will be factions from the factions, then from the deputies. And it'll be able to come out not a little bit, but a lot. And that will be the possibility, Mrs. Anna. And I thank you. I want to answer Mr. Igor. I would like to inform everyone that before voting in favour of this ruling, I will conduct a signal vote. And I'm going to sit here until the MPs get together and there's no positive vote. Let's say it's 5 minutes, 10, 20, we've already been through this practice. And if anyone thinks that you can stay outside the hall at work, I'm going to announce who's there, we're going to see the presence of one or the other factions on the board. And until that question is voted out, I'm going to hold a signal vote. I just want the deputies to understand that we need to go back to the hall, who's not in the hall, and I'm sure we're going to get a positive vote. But now we're going in full procedure. Our next chapter is factions. And I'm asking you to record the factions. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u61	The word Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u62	Passes the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u63	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. A respected society, of course, we all support this appeal to international society and for me it is such a personal story, and for many families in Ukraine that have relatives who are still alive. Many motorists were the victims of the genocide. And there are still living motorists who have survived this terrible famine. I had a question when I asked for the floor when I spoke to the head of the profiling committee, but now it's going to be like a statement that we should try to use our headship in February at the UN to focus on this problem. So if there is such a possibility, if it's politically possible, I would ask our diplomats to use both this possibility and all the other possibilities. Just like the deputy head of the budget committee, we are constantly trying and supporting all the initiatives to increase the financing of our foreign affairs ministry. And we think that work on, and war on the political front is no less important than war on the real front in the east. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u64	Thank you. From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u65	I'm asking you to pass the word to Elena Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u66	Victor Yelensky, People's Front. Honorable TV viewers, honourable members of Parliament, the People's Front faction sees the appeal to the parliaments of the world in recognition of the Holodomor genocide of 1932-1933 as extremely important from a political, moral, ethical point of view. We have to prove to the world what we ourselves know, what the Holocaust really was a genocide. First of all, we have to give up speculation by the very word "genocide," and we have to forget such blasphemous expressions as hydrogen genocide or genocide. There was genocide, indeed, genocide -- the extermination of the Ukrainian people, which threatened the Stalin regime. And this genocide was unique, and this experience of Ukraine. Tragic experience was also unique. We must prove to the world that the protection of our statehood was also a protection and a protection against future famines and future genocides. The defense of our state is a guarantee that this genocide will not happen again. We must prove this to the whole world and put the Ukrainian State’s attitude on the outside toward other nations, depending on how carefully they treat the pain of the Ukrainian people, how carefully they treat our memory of genocide. We urge everyone to return to the hall and vote in favour of this appeal, which is an important step in establishing Ukraine in the outer arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u67	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laschka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u68	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Perhaps one of the Ukrainians who now listen to or watch Parliament meetings on television will wonder if there are any more important issues today: tariffs, pensions, wages, than the use of democratic states to declare genocide to the Huddomor of the Ukrainian people. To those of you who think so, I want to say no. Because when it comes to the historical memory of Ukraine’s future, we need to remember the past. And our future was formed just in the last century, when the Stalinist regime of communist, human not-eating regimes destroyed millions of Ukrainians just because they were Ukrainian, just because they were farmers, just because they wanted to be free people. So historical justice must be restored because millions of innocently murdered, no Ukrainian family has passed this genocide by means of a handmade and organized Communist regime: children, men, women who died because they took bread from the most fertile land, were taken by force, were shot, and then left hungry villages in cities so that they could not find jobs and feed their family. And someone wants me to say that I, the Ukrainian, should forget about it? And someone wants me to say that I have to forgive you? And someone wants me to say that there are no more important questions than the restoration of historical memory and justice and the veneration of the millions of souls who look at us from above? If we do not remember our roots, if we do not remember where we are from, we will not have a future. Because the foundation of a future country is justice and this is the Ukrainian soul, the Ukrainian heart and the Ukrainian land. And tariffs and wages and the fight against corruption and pensions and international politics are all important. But the most important thing is what your heart is. And why do you want a country called Ukraine? So we can make grandmas here and then take them off the grid? Is it so that your children, grandchildren, and family can grow up here and that you can view this country as your home country, not your territory to earn money? And so I demand that the Ukrainian authorities make an effort to beat the rest of the world to know about the crime that was committed against the Ukrainians, and that this crime never, ever, ever again on our earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National MP John Krulk, the faction of the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u70	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Ukrainian nation became the one in the world that was targeted by the greatest and most tragic, absolutely planned, battle for destruction. And actually today there have been mentions in this room of three Holodomors who were in the territory of Ukraine and who had all the signs of genocide. Under every great city of Ukraine, we have our Bulls, where representatives of the Ukrainian nation were shot and destroyed, intelligence. The Bolshevik regime, which came to enslave the Ukrainian land, did everything possible to completely kill the Ukrainians, any possibility of resistance. To suppress even the desire and even the thought of restoring the Ukrainian state. This was the main reason for the planned actions that contained signs of genocide against the Ukrainian people against the Ukrainian nation. We know that all the research, the deep research that has been done in Ukraine to make sure that the truth about the Holocaust and the genocide of the Ukrainian people is known throughout the world. And on January 13, 2010, the Kyiv Court of Appeal declared the Holodomor of 1932-1933 to be an official genocide of the Ukrainian people. And this decision was called the crime organizers, who are not of age and which is provided for in article 442 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. I want the names of those criminals who organized the Holodomor genocide in 1932-1933 to speak in this room: Stalin, Molotov, Kaganovich, Pošishev, Kosior, Chubar, Khatajevich are those who should not be forgiven and who should be remembered as those who deliberately destroyed the Ukrainians and did everything to ensure that the Holocaust of Genocide was implemented. Of course, there were thousands of perpetrators of this crime, genocide, and so should we. We must remember those who were killed during this genocide, but we must remember all the organizers. It is our honor today to vote on this appeal and the honor of all the diplomats, the politicians of our diaspora, so that the countries of the world will recognize this terrible crime of genocide that took place in Ukraine. In order that he may never again be repeated on an earthly globe as the most terrible tragedy that can be imagined when people living on such fertile lands die from not having a piece of bread. In Ukrainian, unfortunately, the tradition is a piece of bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u72	Sadly, in the Ukrainian tradition, a piece of bread is not only viewed as a symbol of life but also a symbol of memory. It is also a symbol of those millions of victims who did not have the possibility of making bread. That is why I, indeed, today call upon all the deputies, the entire session hall to unite and vote in order to appeal to the whole world for the recognition of the Holocaust of 1932-1933 years of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u73	Thank you. We're moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. People's deputies please sign up for participation in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u75	Please, National Deputy Yuri Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u76	There is no secret to anyone that 70 years of silence has passed. First of all, they were silenced by the Communist regime, which, unfortunately, is sitting in this room as well. And this vote is going to show who votes, who's going to determine that this is the genocide of the Ukrainian people in this room. We can talk in this room, love. any question and any problem, but it's overwhelming right now to show unity, and that in this room, Communist bastards will never find a place again. I call upon all the national MPs, first of all Self-Help, to return to the hall and vote in favour of this decree. This decision is not just for us, but primarily for our children, our grandchildren, our grandchildren, so that such a tragedy will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u77	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u78	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Sadly, the people who do not remember their own history are forced to survive it again. Those tragic pages that happened to us in the 20th century, the three Holodores, organized by Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, left an irreparable mark on the body of the Ukrainian nation. Because by the early 20th century, Ukrainians had a census of more than 80 million, and we had 35 million left after the famines. Of course, we cannot recover the numbers right now, and the tragedy that has taken place with us will remain in our hearts and in our memory forever. But we are outraged by the fact that the whole Europe at the time was buying cheap bread from the Bolshevik regime, which decided only by force, in such a way, terrible. The way genocide is a starving death, forcing the unhurried Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian nation to speed up. I am outraged by the fact that many years have passed and there are many testimonies, facts, historical evidence, but unfortunately, the so-called European partners to this day do not recognize genocide in Ukrainians, the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian nation. Sadly, this is not recognized by Germany, France, England, and Israel, who had about the same tragedy. I'm not talking, I'm not talking about Moscow, she never admits it. But I am outraged by the fact that so-called partners, with so much evidence, do not want to recognize the terrible genocide as Bolsheviks, organized in Ukraine with regard to the Ukrainian nation by this very genocide. So it's very sad that today we see another repetition of this cycle, when Ukraine offers the nuclear potential, from which it joins the three largest in the world, and it gets all the guarantees on paper. And once again we're getting war in the east, again we're getting aggression from Moscow, again we're getting this -- the challenge against our nation, this Moscow that can't accept the existence of Ukrainians, the existence of the Ukrainian state. So you need to understand that we should never count on someone with other people's hands just to heat up. Our strength is only within us and in our unity, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our strength is only in that we should count on ourselves first. And we're not going to Europe. We must demand Europe today, demand to condemn the actions of Bolshevik Moscow, condemn the acts of genocide, condemn the actions of today's Moscow, which once again commits genocide in the east. So Freedom calls for support for this decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u79	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Valery Lunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u81	Please, Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u82	Oleg Medunica, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u83	I'm sorry, the Kremlin's been given a word. All right, please, Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious decision, no matter how simple it may be on the Supreme Council and everyone agrees with the necessity of its adoption. The point is that every year, when Ukrainian diplomatic representations around the world are working on genocide recognition by the Ukrainian people by parliaments or countries around the world, every year the Russian Federation embassies around the world are doing a powerful diplomatic work to discredit our efforts. They call the ministries of foreign affairs, they work with foreign parliamentarians to ensure that the genocide of the Ukrainian nation, which was primarily carried out by Russian invaders on Ukrainian soil, was not recognized. Such a diplomatic struggle has lasted for more than 10 years. We did a colossal work to restore historical memory. Over the past 10 years, books have been written, written, and witnessed by all those who have survived the Holocaust. We've built a huge scientific base. The Institute of National Memory, which is now the body of State executive power that we have created, by the way, including in order to perpetuate the memory of the Holocaust, is now storing this information, and we are spreading this information worldwide. This tragedy is important for future generations of Ukrainians to understand the importance of the Ukrainian nation always having, preserving and multiplying the Ukrainian state. Because the state is the best mechanism for preserving the nation, and so it is important that our neighbours acknowledge the genocide of the Ukrainian people throughout the world. I urge you all to vote in favour. The People's Front faction will unanimously give its vote for this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u85	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. Lapin. People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u86	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, you know, recently in Lutsk, in the 4th grade, little children were told about the Holocaust and talked about what happened in Ukraine when some parents lost a lot of children in order to save other children, even we had facts and cannibalism. What am I telling you? When those kids are asking now, "Why would they do that?It's important enough for all of us to be able to explain this to these kids as it really is. Why were the Ukrainian people destroyed? Because we are a strong nation. Because we are a free people. And today, it is the honor of every person in this Parliament to vote with the button that we recognize this fact and call on our international community to also acknowledge the destruction and genocide of the Ukrainian people. So I'm asking all my colleagues to mobilize, support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u87	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u88	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! Today, it is the duty of the Ukrainian Parliament to vote in favour of this decree because millions of Ukrainians who have been destroyed by the totalitarian Moscow regime of the twentieth century, today, their souls look up to us from the heavens and see how we are doing today. And, you know, it's not just a story when we're researching, but as it was, it's all today. Because even when famine was compared to other genocides, such as the same holocaust, Nazi Germany, which was a Holocaust, its criminal regime was destroyed, it was condemned, all criminals were held accountable. Moreover, in many parts of the world today there is criminal responsibility for denying the Holocaust. And we realize that this crime is not only said but it is overcome. And when we talk about famine, the regime that made the famine that killed millions of Ukrainians, I remind you, not only one famine, one famine was in 21-22, the other one was in 32-33, and the third after the war was the so-called "winning" famine in 46-47. And these are just famines, and we're taking repression, evictions, deportations, destruction of Ukrainian intelligence, violent ruse, this is all one complex of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And today the regime that carried out this famine is being punished? No! No! What's more, if it was mostly hidden in Soviet times, now the Russian Federation's current government is blocking it, telling us that Stalin was an effective manager, that it was so good, that we needed it. Who, us? - I don't understand. The Soviet occupying power to raise the industry, prepare for war. That's why tens of millions died, well, nothing, that's what it took! So today, more than that, the same people who are attacking our country today are descendants of those who have been starving. They're proud of it, they're celebrating this crime. And we have to understand that today is the same war that was in 17-18-19, the same enemy is going to our land. And we need to understand that the 21st century, not the 21st century, will have the opportunity to make genocide again -- they will. We need to understand that, so we must stand to the end for our land. The world needs to be explained about this terrible crime, which, unfortunately, may even happen again in the future. The main thing is to draw conclusions and be Ukrainians, protect yourself, protect your land, and remember your ancestors. To feel responsible for today. I would like to conclude with the words of the poet Vasil Simonek, who also died and was in the grip of Bolshevik power. Who said, "My people are. My people will always be. No one will destroy my people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u89	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Glory to Ukraine! I would like to contact you, especially the Committee on Spirituality. To be not only consistent with today’s decree, which for some year has not been brought into our parliament. And this is the failure of our Parliament. Because it had to be voted on as soon as the committee decided. But the Committee on Spirituality has yet another decree on the Holocaust genocide of the Ukrainian nation in 1946-1947. And it's registered for my authorship in 5140 two and a half months ago. Thus, the Committee on Spirituality to this day has failed to reach its conclusion and does not bring this decision to Parliament’s attention. There is another decree on genocide by the Polish State of Ukraine for 32 years. A spiritual committee for four months is unable to consider and reach its conclusion. And we can't vote on that. Indeed, it is necessary to vote in favour of all the parliaments of the world on the recognition of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. But it is also necessary to condemn those political forces that are already condemned and banned in Ukraine, such as the Communist Party of Ukraine. But you know, when the Ukrainian Parliament was on its way to recognizing genocide, the Holodomor of 1932-1933, there was a party of regions that voted against it. And to this day, the representatives of the Party of Regions are in this room. And the Party of Regions itself is not condemned or banned in Ukraine, and it functions and is going to go to elections. So I would call for the succession of the Ukrainian Parliament and perhaps the Ministry of Justice, our government to ban such parties that vote against the recognition of famines, the migration of Ukrainians and so on, that they are not genocides. And finally, I want to say that these are the sacrifices that the Ukrainian people made. My nation, during the 21st-23rd year, in the same communist regime, is about 3 million people who were judged to have died, especially children during this period of famine at the Poglai, when Ukrainian bread was taken, and 8 million people voted. And genocide, the Holocaust of 46-47, where about a million people died and 3 million people starved, also needs to be recognized by the Ukrainian Parliament as genocide, first we have to admit, and then we have to go on to the international community. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u91	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Suprunenka. None. Please, Andrew Ruddick. National MP Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! This is what happened in my life that in 2007-10 I was the deputy head of the Kiev City Administration, and Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki, who is loved by everyone and mentioned by land developers, is mentioned by grandma. But for some reason, no one mentions that in the 7th and 10th years, the monuments were dismantled to Ukrainian executioners who sent millions of Ukrainian people to go hungry. During those years, I served as deputy head of the Kyiv City State Administration and at the same time head of the Memorial Name Commission. And I remember, for the previous President Yushchenka, thanking him, in fact, I want to say a warm word that revealed to the entire Ukrainian people the subject of Huddomor as a real horror of genocide for the entire Ukrainian state. At the same time, we built the Holocaust Victims Memorial on the street of John Mazepa, and at the same time there were three monuments in Kiev: Kosioru, Chubar and Petrovsky, three leaders of Soviet Ukraine, who at the same time caused this horror. And, you know, I caught myself in those years thinking that there had never really been a case before. On the one hand, we honor the victims, on the other hand, overlooking the fact that their monuments are on the streets. I am proud that, without my participation, these three monuments disappeared from our city map. Petrovsky stood there, remembering where Vingranowski was standing right now, near Dinamo. Chubar was standing in the park of Chubara on the street, on the outskirts of a city called Kyiv. And Kosiore was standing right now on the street of former Artema. How many streets were these people? They're not here today. We started in the last call, I wasn't a national MP then, we started the topic of decommunization. But even to this day in the villages, go to our country, and the boards are still unrecorded. Someone forgot, someone says it's our story, someone says that, well, you see, one head of one church line, that it's the God of punishment sent us for Holodomor. Yeah, yeah, it's about Sabodan or whatever his name is. I'm so sorry. I am also from Cherniv, and I am sorry that such a priest was born in Cherniv. And I call on our colleagues, our society, the decommunization is not over, the Holocaust will not end until the Opposition Block recognizes this and starts calling things its names together with the entire Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in a few minutes we'll move on to making a decision, now I'll give you one minute. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies into the Hall, and I ask all the heads of factions for their secretaries to invite deputies into the Hall, and in a few minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I'm giving Chumak one more minute. Then the closing word. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, one minute is Chumak, from the non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u94	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency district, Dniprovsky district of Kiev Dear colleagues, in support of this decree. I'm familiar with the accounts of my mother and my grandmother, who survived it in 1932-1933, who survived it in the 37s, who had been through it after the war, who ate storms instead of eating normal food, storms to survive. Our task with you is to let the whole world know about it, and the whole world recognizes the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. But I went out to say more than that. You and I had the day of the Ukrainian army yesterday. Thank God we have something to score right now. Thank God we have an army that can really show that it protects its country. Thank God that we have defenders who today, almost, we will say so, are under the care of the Ukrainian State. But we should not forget with you those who have served theirs and those who are now retired, or who are now retired. Including those who performed their international duty in other parts of the world at different times. I just want to announce that she's turned to me and now she's standing on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u95	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u96	The Afghan veterans' association, which indicates that the 2017 draft budget is particularly affected by all possible social security guarantees for war veterans and virtually nullified by the War Veterans' Act and guarantees their social protection. Moreover, they say that the numerous appeals of representatives to the government, to the leadership of the state, are ignored and cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u97	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u98	They cannot meet with the leadership of the State. I want to pass on these demands to the Internationalist Military Association and the resolution of the protest participants to the Parliamentary Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, let us move on to making a decision. I want to ask the author and the reporter, is there a need for a closing word? No, I don't. I'm going to put a rating vote first, and depending on whether there are votes, we're going to move on to making a decision or we're going to wait for the votes to be in the room. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take a job, please come into the hall, everyone in the towers, go into the hall. And I'm betting on a rating vote on the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world for the recognition of the 1932-1933 famine in Ukraine by the crime of genocide of the Ukrainian people, number 3525. We're only running a rating vote right now. Please prepare to participate in the rating vote and please vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Do not leave the hall, but enter the hall. Please vote, take part in the vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:47:34]] For 227 Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take the seats of all the deputies. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world on the recognition of the Holodomor of 1932-1933 in Ukraine by the crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people (number 3525) at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:48:37]] For 233 It's been decided. Congratulations, dear colleagues. And, dear fellows, I very much ask the people's deputies not to separate, now we have a block of local self-government, and the first are a few questions, on the one hand, technical, and, on the other hand, very important. It's a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Ternopil. The name of the town of Mukachev, the name of the village of Padalka. These are very brief questions, I hope they unite the hall that we will be able to pass them quickly. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm putting in a draft regulation 3411 on amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Ternopil. And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:49:43]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The Ternopil district council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the changes and boundaries of the town of Ternopil. The project proposes to expand the city’s territory by a thousand and a half acres [525 ha], zero and seven hectares [7 ha] of land in the Brežana City Council, and to establish a total area of 2 thousand and 37 hectares [2,000 ha]. The expansion of the city is proposed by the built - up commercial, industrial, and agricultural lands. The purpose of land integration is based on the need to address relevant urban issues, such as the formation of housing and manufacturing reserves, the placement of recreational utilities, the preservation of cultural heritage sites, and the provision of space for small and medium - size production for the purpose of investing in production. The issue of a change in the boundaries of the Coastal Region is in line with legislation, discussed and approved by the Coastal City, the Coastal District and the Ternopil District Councils, and the Coastal District and Ternopil district authorities. District State Administration. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government supports the submission of the Ternopil district council to change the boundaries of the Ternopil region. Please support the draft Order on the Change of the Borders of the Ternopil Region (registration number 3411) and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? None. Then I ask you to invite all the people's deputies into the hall, and we're about to move on to making a decision. I ask you to join all the national deputies in the hall and prepare for the vote. For months now we've been dealing with these issues with technical issues that have general support, common understanding. And I very much ask everyone to concentrate on entering the hall, colleagues. Please invite all the deputies to the hall to take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the draft regulation 3411 on the proposal of the committee as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:52:55]] For 184 Colleagues, dear colleagues, let's put on a return, ask all our colleagues to unite. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll wait a minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be back in a minute. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, please, I will now put the vote to the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please come in, we're busy. So, colleagues, I'm going to put once on my way back. Everyone please take up their jobs. I now put to the vote: go back to the draft regulation 3411. Please be supportive. Please vote on the proposal to return to question 3411. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:56:10]] For 197 The decision is not made. Colleagues, why don't you go back to the committee for work? Then I'll make the next suggestion to maybe support: return to the committee for work, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs right now. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Now I'm going to make an offer: to work on the committee. Please support me, colleagues, for work. Colleagues, can you back me up? I'm putting a motion to the vote: return to the committee for further elaboration before the first reading of the draft regulation 3411. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:57:22]] For 193 And the final suggestion is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, please support the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:57:50]] For-188. The decision is not made. Project Regulation 3411 is dismissed. Dear colleagues, me. We won't be able to make it, two minutes before recess, we won't be able to get to the next question, but there is a request from the Afghan veterans to give one minute for a message from those who are currently flying near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm giving you a minute to speak to the People's Deputy Kunicin. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u102	Dear friends! We can't pretend that nothing's going to happen. Under the Supreme Council now stands about 2,000 veterans of Afghanistan. I was the coordinator of the Afghan veterans in Maidan from day one to day one. About 2,000 Afghans passed Majdan. 12,000 were fighting in Donbasa, 160 were killed, hundreds injured. The commander of the 8th hundredth Oleg Mihnuk received the posthumous Hero of Ukraine. We made decisions that hit Afghans, atolls, with our foreheads. Some have benefits, others have benefits. People are here. Now we're with Deputy Sazek, Afghan, we're out, we're in a rally. The situation is getting worse. You can't pretend that nothing's going to happen. I turned to Andrija Volodymyrovich. High or Oksana Siroid, the head of the Tretjak committee will meet the delegation, because we know that these people have been through a war, there are Afghan assassins, they can go for anything. And we make it look like nothing's happening! We agreed with Prime Minister Groissman that by December 25 we would sign a memorandum between the Afghans, the Atosses and the families of the dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u103	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u104	The situation is that all those involved in the fighting will be disabled by war. Families who have died have the same benefits, benefits. Because it can't be any different! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, I hereby announce a recess of 30 minutes. At 12.30 p.m., we'll continue our meeting. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 12:30 to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Dear colleagues, we have three questions coming up from the local government block, but the committee head has asked that these questions be moved. I'm convinced that we all have great respect for the committee, and that's why we're going to consider the committee's proposal. And these questions about local self-government, which should have been in order the next day, we're moving them to the next day. And, dear fellows, this is how we move on to the next block of our questions. It's for re-examination with the President's proposals. And I would also like to report that we have two draft decrees for the annulment of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that I can put to the vote at any time without being included in the regulations, but we are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Operators in the Areas of Heating, Central Water Supply and Water Supply, with proposals by President No. 2706. I would like to remind you that when we consider draft legislation with proposals from the President of Ukraine, we have a special procedure. It does not provide for short - term or long - term procedures. She has her own procedure, which she foresees from the committee. And then the discussion. Therefore, I am announcing the Ukrainian Law 2706 and I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Negod Vijacheslav Antonovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u107	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I've been assigned to report on the bill. First of all, I would like to say that this is the work of this draft of the Act "On Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Economic Operators in the Areas of Heating, Central Water Supply and Water Management" (Registration No. 2706) of 22.04.2015 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 July this year. This bill is aimed at stabilising the financial and economic situation of residential enterprises. The President of Ukraine disagrees with the proposed method of resolving problems in the field of heating, centralized water supply, and water supply. Since Bill 2706 deals only partially with the problems of utility providers and covers only enterprises where there is no energy debt at 1/01.14. This allows you to restructure the term for 24 months only in 14 years. In view of the bill, the President proposes to reject it. The Ministry supports the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. But let me also remind you that on November 30th of this year, the Ukrainian Law of 03.11.2016, which is called "On measures aimed at settling the debt of thermal and heat-generating organizations and central water supply and water supply companies for energy consumption", is more comprehensively addressing the financial and economic problems of residential and utility enterprises. So given the above, this is an additional argument, we consider it appropriate to withdraw bill 2706. And I would like to take this opportunity to address you, honourable national MPs, given that today is the day of local self-government, and that the Ministry is responsible for these issues, I would like to welcome you, in your person all representatives of the local self-government of Ukraine with this day, and to thank you first of all from our ministry, from those territorial communities that are now implementing with us legislation that relates to and the creation of capable territorial communities, and the formation of a modern system of local self-government, to thank you for that support. And we hope that in the future we will be with you and only you in Ukraine to carry out the best reform and build the strongest local self-government. I wish you luck!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u108	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Viacheslav Andronovich, please return to the rostrum. According to the order in which the question is dealt with after the report, time is given for the question-answer. And I'm asking the people's deputies five minutes of question-answer, please record the question to the reporter. Kodola, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u109	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'd like to ask how long has it been since the heating season in Ukraine and, in particular, maybe you have information on Montenegro? And the situation with heat-generating companies, if you have numbers, how many accounts have been arrested now, and how do these heat-generating enterprises function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that in our ministry, the issue of housing-communal agriculture is run by another deputy and I have to report on this matter to Minister Hennaday Zubko. In view of what is currently going on with the government meeting, I can't, frankly, answer all the questions that relate to housing and utilities professionally. At the same time, I am ready for all the questions that will be answered in writing in order to prepare. Since I'm in the Ministry, I can honestly tell you, I'm responsible for the issue of conduct, including reforms of local self-government, decentralization. So I don't want my answers to be inaccurate and, well, they don't answer the questions you're asking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u112	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Andreyev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u113	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I do not even have a question, nor do I have a proposal to uphold this law. Why? After the adoption of 5273, the law that we actually settled was signed by the President, extremely important to the field, the relevance of 2706, it just fell off. That's why we have two options today: either we support the President's proposal for rejection, or it means overcoming the veto, because there will be no votes. And today we have to do everything we can to just reject this law, because today is a very important law that regulates all these issues, it's already started to work, businesses are already getting money to pay off debts. And after the debt restructuring, after full repayment of the debt, the fine and fines that have been accrued by the State will be abolished as a result of the non-calculation by the State of its particle as a difference in tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u114	Thank you. I understand it was a performance, not a question. Yeah? And next, I give the word of Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u115	Good afternoon! Please give the word to Alexander the Brigin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I think in this case there's nothing to even ask because this law, it's created some kind of inequality and our task is to make all businesses and opportunities equal. So I propose to support the President's proposal in this case, and our faction will support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u117	Thank you. And the last statement of the question, Saul's Yuri Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u118	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Viacheslav Andronovich, you said from the rostrum that basically the issues you're leading concern your own territorial and administrative reform and the strengthening of local self-government. Regrettably, yesterday the Ukrainian Parliament failed to adopt one of the most important laws of 4676 concerning the unification of territorial communities when communities unite and the settlements are located in different areas. Please tell me what to do in this case, what is the position of the Ministry under this bill? And how do you personally see a solution to this problem, since the problem exists and is extremely acute? As a senior deputy, I received a phone call yesterday from two local government officials simply with the unsatisfying position of evaluation or the unacceptable bill yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u119	Thank you very much, thank you for asking. It is relevant, especially today, on the day of local self - government. I would like to assure all the national MPs that, of course, I wanted very much yesterday that we, on the eve of the day of local self-government, should adopt this law. But I think somewhere we haven't worked with individual factions, we have some misunderstandings, obviously. I only want to emphasize that the Ministry, personally, does not allow any pressure in the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. This process should take into account the thinking of the territorial communities, if there are other examples, we try not to. At the same time, the process of forming capable territorial communities is irreversible, in order to transfer authority and transfer resources, and responsibility, we must have capable communities, and we have no other way. And I don't think there's any national MP in this room that's against having a powerful local self-government in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u120	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u121	Maybe there's different views on this, but eventually we have to create this. So the questions that are then related to housing-communal issues will be better dealt with by those communities that have the resources that have the authority. So I think we're going to propose a way to move on, and I'm sure they're going to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Question time is complete. And to my co-report, I invite Mr. Andriyevsky's representative of the Committee on Construction and Urban Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u123	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Very brief information on this law. I would like to remind you that the 2,706 bill was proposed for consideration by the deputies and was supported, just taking into account what we needed to address the extremely bad situation in the field. The government’s failure to calculate its share to cover the differences in tariffs resulted in significant fines and pennies, the laundering of circulation costs in thermal power companies, enterprises that provide central water supply and water supply services. Such a law was voted, signed to the President, but there were warnings, and the remarks appeared to the President, warnings from international financial organizations. Following appropriate consultations with the government, a new law, Law 5273, was enacted, which was also discussed in the report of the first deputy minister. This law has been voted by the deputies, signed by the President, and is now in operation. Heat and electricity companies, companies that provide central water and water services, are now receiving funds to pay off debt. They were given the opportunity to restructure this debt by five years. By the way, at the suggestion of the deputies, we have given the same opportunities to consumers, who also have the opportunity to restructure such debt peacefully. After this debt has been repaid, the foam and fines incurred by the state will be abolished. So Law 2706 has lost its relevance, and today is the President's proposal to reject it. So I'm asking and the committee's decision is to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Five minutes to ask. I'm asking you to record a question, please. Vanat, from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Mr. Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u126	Alexander Kodolah. Dear colleagues, as deputy chairman of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, I call upon the entire Chamber to support the committee's decision. Since this law has become obsolete, as my colleague Dmitry Andryewski has said, I appeal to everyone to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u127	Thank you. Mr. Andryewsky, thank you for your questions and answers. Honorable colleagues, according to the bill, do not provide for speeches but only questions. And we're moving on to making a decision. I want to draw attention to what Andreievsky said, that the fact that this bill is even rejected opens the way for a new one. Yeah, I get it right? And that's why we're going to put all the voting proposals now. It is not for discussion, but only speeches and questions are foreshadowed. To review the President’s proposals, Ukraine has a special procedure where there is no discussion. Colleagues, I will now make one after the other all the proposals provided for by the Rules. The first sentence is to reject the law. Yes, I'll put her to the vote first. So, dear colleagues, I'm offering to reject the law. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, next to the veto, now it's a rejection. Deviation. [[12:55:12]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The next is to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues who support the proposal to defeat the President's veto, please vote. Please vote. [[12:55:40]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The next proposal is to accept in general, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to accept this proposal in general, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, please vote. Please. [[12:56:13]] For-94 The decision is not taken. And the last suggestion that we can make is to send it to the committee for further work, colleagues. Who's behind it. Please give Andreyevsky one minute, let him tell us what to do now. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u128	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, in principle, is that the results of the vote that they held today are completely in place because the law is regarded as being rejected. We're going to say again, this law, it was normal, but it's completely out of date today. Because there's a law that's already signed by the President, and the branch is already getting extra circulation costs, and it's going to be able to restructure, and it's going to be able to cancel and write down the fine and fines. So this is the result of the vote that we saw on the Supreme Council screens today, which is entirely in the interests of housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-07-m0.u129	Thank you. So I'm not proposing the last possible proposal, but actually the votes we've made, he's opening the way for a new bill. And so I declare that, according to the results of the vote, draft Law 2706 has been rejected. And that actually opens the way for you to come up with a new bill. Dear colleagues, I've reported that there are two. The Self - Government Committee has removed its cluster of issues. Two draft decisions that I planned to put to the vote that did not need to be included in the agenda, unfortunately, cannot be made because the author was ill. I just spoke to him on the phone, and unfortunately he won't be able to come and ask to move them on any other day. So we don't have any other issues that we could consider in order of the day session. In this regard, I, my distinguished colleagues, wish everyone to work actively on the committees. Today, a local self - government committee will be important. I want to remind you that parliamentary hearings will be important today: "Current issues of foreign policy in Ukraine." And I would like to remind you that tomorrow morning, after the question of removing the MP's immunity, there will be questions that are needed for the adoption of a budget that we haven't been able to look into on Tuesday. And so I'm asking everyone tomorrow at 10 a.m. to come to the hall in a disciplined manner to continue our work. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Fruitful committee work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you.
