ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[10:03:03:03]] 288 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our deputies: Welcome to Ivanovich Gudzenka and Arthur Leonidovich Palace. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, over 80 victims of a night terror in Nice. That night, the truck crashed into a crowd of people who returned home after the celebration of Bastille’s National Day. The French authorities have already classified this act as terrorist. The Ukrainian Parliament expresses its sympathy to the French people and to all the dead and their families. Terrorism has no nationality. Every day, Ukrainian boys die at the hands of Kremlin terrorists, an evil to overcome. Please honor the victims of terrorism for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Colleagues, today in the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are taking part in a government-led session with Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groisman and also the Attorney-General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Please welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 34 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, Ukraine’s Attorney General has the right to speak at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yuri Vitaliyovich asked to speak to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in fact, according to the law, I replied that we are now ready and happy to hear the words of the Attorney General. With your permission, I'd like to invite you to the floor of Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. Five minutes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The chief military prosecutor's office is conducting a criminal investigation in which, in addition to other events, the theatre of hostilities investigates the circumstances and causes of the Iloway tragedy that took place in August 2014. Prosecutor's Offices, as far as is permitted by the Criminal Procedure Code, are as open and transparent as possible for the public as possible to explain the progress and the results of the investigation of conducts, especially resonances such as this. At this time, the final stage of the trial is a complex commission military expertise, which is expected to be completed in the first half of August of this year. On the basis of the documents, experts identified who and how they commanded the army in that direction, who gave the orders, and who did not give the life - giving orders. Experts are finishing their work. In view of the considerable social demand for the establishment of the truth in this case with regard to the perpetrators, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine addresses everyone without excluding the national deputies of Ukraine, the parliamentary groups and factions with the proposal to form an order of admission to state secrecy in the established legislation. And those deputies who will have it and will show their wish will be able to get to know the materials and conclusions of the experts on the matter. Taking into account the requirements of legislation regarding the protection of information that constitutes a national secret, familiarizing the national deputies with the findings of the experts will enable, without breaking the law, the people of Ukraine to bring about an objective truth in this matter by putting an end to the falsifications and political games in the blood of our heroes. We have to do this together. I invite all the deputies who want to take part in this to form permits and contact the Head of the Supreme Council. And I ask you, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich, to give the Henprocuratorate a list of these national deputies who will be immediately admitted to the study and the documents and the expert conclusions. I think it's not just the politicians and not even the soldiers who need it, but the people of Ukraine and all the future soldiers and officers who will be able to make mistakes and wins to build the real Ukrainian Armed Forces who will win the victory we've been looking for. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Yuri Vitaliovich, thank you. We will certainly hand over all the lists that will come to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney -General’s Office, and we will definitely be involved in the investigation of the tragedy that took place in Ukraine. Colleagues, according to the Rules, have a "hour of questions to the Government" on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. As we planned last week to talk and have a dialogue with the government, and unfortunately we haven't been able to do that, today we're going to be able to ask questions and hear the government's position on tariffs and social problems that are in the country today. And I invite Minister of Social Policy Andrija Alexiyovich Revou to speak in 15 minutes. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone. Kowalov. Okay. So first, we're going to give the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Julius Igorovni Kowalov in 15 minutes. Please turn on the microphone, Julia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Mr. Prime Minister! Today we have 231 days that we don't buy Russian gas at all. Those who threatened us with an energy collapse in 2014 were afraid that we would not be able to provide Ukraine and gas and other energy resources were wrong. Over the past two years, we have not only become weaker, we have become stronger. Why were we able to give up the robbery gas? Because we started buying it not for political contracts, and we started buying it at market price, paying the real price for it. And today, as a nation, no one can demand political loyalty, political concessions, or other things that have undermined our sovereignty. In fact, by its decision at the end of April of this year, he actually set the price that corresponds to the European market, and for the first time in the history of Ukraine, he set this price transparently. The price formula provided for in the government’s decision completely excludes the influence of government officials on the formation of this price and is linked to the real price of the Habi at which the gas is purchased. In fact, before we had different gas prices, we had to be honest, we had only two ways. There are ways to cover the difference between gas and gas. The first way we covered the whole difference in gas price through direct financing of Naftogazu through the budget. In 2014, 108 billion dollars were funded to cover the Naftogazu deficit. If we hadn't changed this system, in 2016, we'd have to pay Naftogazu 171 billion dollars. That's more than just funding the defense for today. The second option is to cover the difference exclusively to those who can't pay the war, or the targeted subsidies, and that's the only right way the whole world is going, and that's what Ukraine is going to end up with today. For people who can't pay these tariffs, nothing has changed since the government's decision, they've paid no more than 15 percent of total family income for services to utilities, and they're going to pay them, and the sum that's saved is, think about it, colleagues! - 130 billion dollars. This is the amount that the state, through the State Budget, can now finance the army, finance the deficit of the Pension Fund, which has been reduced by the rate of taxation of salaries. And also, if we look at the budget spending actually on this economy, and I emphasize that this is over 130 billion dollars, we have the opportunity to fund the army, and the funding has increased by 2.5 times compared to 2014. There's another source where the 130 additional billion in the budget came from -- corruption, like day after day, is destroyed in the gas sector. When there was one price for gas for the population, another price for gas — for greenhouses and a third price — for industry, part of the gas was bought at cheap prices and sold at expensive prices. And if we look at the amount of corruption and the latest cases of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which were presented to you both in Parliament, and which were discussed by the NABA leaders, this is an example of where our budget was actually being cut. The next important step is to install a single market price for gas, and it has actually been an impetus to the development of our own gas production. In fact, what happened before that? When we sold our own cheap Ukrainian gas, year after year we destroyed our own production, what did this lead to? This led to more and more gas being imported each year, more and more gas being bought in the Russian Federation, actually supporting its gas production, supporting Russia's investment in production and actually financing the aggressor state. Only with the decision taken by the government in April of this year did we give a boost, a real boost to the production of our own gas. And by 2020, we are tasking ourselves with increasing the production of gas by our state-owned Crushing Company to 20 billion dollars. As a result, by 2020 we can become a fully energy independent country An important, very important step taken by the government, in fact, on the road to energy efficiency, is also related to gas prices. Before that, when gas prices were low, there was no real incentive to save electricity, to save gas, to save heat, to thermomodernize buildings. If you look at how much Ukraine consumes energy, compared to the consumption per unit of GDP of the same energy-bearing countries in Europe, for example in Germany, we consume three times as much energy-bearing. As a result, our economy, our production cannot be competitive in the face of this energy inefficiency of our economy. In fact, the biggest incentive for energy efficiency is market tariffs on gas. In order to launch an energy efficiency programme, the government has initiated the creation of an energy efficiency fund that can co-finance with every citizen, with each of the housing community (OSBB) funding measures that will effectively reduce the energy bill, not because of the cost we then pay from the budget, but because of the reduced consumption of gas, heat, and electricity. As a result of this decision, we actually have three key consequences that are very important to our economy and the security of the state. First: we are opening a real path to our energy independence today, and by 2020 we will be fully self-sustaining our own gas production. The second is that we increase the efficiency of budget use. We don't finance hundreds of billions of dollars in a single company called Naftogaz, and we actually cover both the accounts of those who can pay for themselves, the rich population, and those who can't yet cover those accounts, and we go to targeted grants to those who need it. And third, important: the only price for gas is the anti-corruption mechanism that has lived in the gas sector for years. In fact, only with the only pricing approaches, in parallel with the targeting of subsidies, will we be able to eradicate the billions that have been squandering over the last 20 years in the gas sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Andrija Alexiyovich Revi. Please take 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! In the context of rising prices and tariffs for housing and utilities, the Ukrainian government has introduced a regime to continuously raise public social standards. The first phase of the promotion took place in May of this year by 5.2 percent. The second stage is predicted to be 10.3 percent in December. The overall increase in the basic social standard of subsistence minimum according to decisions adopted by the Supreme Council by the end of the year is 16 percent, which exceeds the projected level of inflation and ensures the gradual restoration of the purchasing power of citizens. With an increased subsistence minimum, the minimum wage, the minimum pension, and government social benefits are increasing. As of July 1, 2016, 276,000 pensioners have been taxed at government initiative, not exceeding 10 subsistence minimums for those who lost their jobs on January 1, 2016. On January 1, that amount amounted to 10,740 dollars. The government is currently working on the issue of further increases in minimum wage guarantees in the area of work with the start of the heating season of the fall in order to increase social protection for the population. At the same time, the main guaranteed mechanism for the protection of vulnerable populations is the housing subsidies programme under the conditions of the switch to energy markets. The government ensures continuous updating and improvement of the housing subsidies programme for the preparation of the heating season 2016-17 years when the largest number of recipients is expected. A mechanism for economic consumption of energy resources has been put in place first. Taking into account the monitoring of actual energy consumption by subsidies recipients, the natural gas standard for the population, 21 percent from seven to five and a half cubic meters per square metre of heating space per month in the heating season has been reduced for heating. In order to stimulate citizens to consume services economically, part of an unused grant equivalent to 100 cubic feet [100 cu m] of natural gas or equivalent to 150 kilowatts [150 kilowatts] of electricity, when using energy sources for individual heating, citizens will be able to count as payment of services, including mandatory household payments for subsequent accounting periods. There are simplified procedures for granting subsidies that would make it impossible to have queues and delays in making decisions. Recalculations of the assigned housing grant are made automatically, without reapplying to the recipient. In line with the operational plan for 2016, five pilot projects have been launched to create modern social services centres in cities with the largest population. I want to inform the people's deputies that we have confirmation from the five territorial communities of the largest cities of Ukraine: Kiev, Kharkiv, Dnipra, Odessa and Lviv about their participation in this project. I want to assure you that the housing grant programme will function in a stable way and will provide social protection for all citizens who need state support. I also want to make sure that information about the risks of the sustainability of the subsidy program and the lies of all myths that spread to destabilize the situation among citizens is unfounded. In this regard, I want to answer certain questions in a clear and concise way and to correct some of the myths that are spreading in the information space. So, the first myth is that the total amount of subsidies received will have to be returned in the future, as well as the fact that it seems that future subsidies may prevent the sale of an apartment or a house, and the receiving of subsidies also prevents the formation of an inheritance. Such rumors have been spreading for 20 years, from the very beginning of the grant system. However, none of the authors of this myth about subsidies will be able to give an example of a subsidy that prevented the inheritance from forming or had to reimburse the subsidy received when the apartment was sold, or the subsidy prevented its sale or the house. Legal instruments on housing subsidies are clearly established, I would stress that the subsidy is a non-refundable state aid. Its acquisition is unrelated and does not entail changes in the form of housing. Myth Two. About the need to use gas, water, and other utilities in the full range of housing subsidies. Otherwise, he said, the grant would no longer be granted. These are very harmful rumors that sometimes our fellow citizens want to use more water, gas, or electricity than they need. Burning the gas to the level of the assigned subsidy is not only foolish but not convenient. As a result of the economics achieved, the family has the opportunity to pay less in the months ahead. According to the current order, the subsidy is allocated within the social standards for housing services, and its size does not depend on actual consumption. If people take advantage of the resources carefully and do not use the entire family standard, the savings in the subsidies remain in the family accounts and can be used in the months ahead, including to cover the necessary part of the payment. Myth the third. The fact that there is a great deal of concern about subsidies, and in reality the subsidy may make a small amount, and some may say, and they will completely refuse, despite the low income. The request for a grant has become very simple. It is necessary to fill in and submit or send mail to the local government of social protection, and in the rural area of the authorized village council, there are only two documents: a statement and a declaration of income and expenditure. Other necessary information will be collected by management experts. In addition, there is now the possibility of filing an application even electronically. The amount of the subsidy depends on the income of the household and the cost of housing services that are provided to it. So in two families with the same income, the amount of the subsidy can be different if there's a difference in the number of housing services they use. On the contrary, neighbors living in the same apartment may receive a different subsidy because they have different incomes. The fourth myth. Subsidies are not given, say, to unemployed working citizens or to families that are made up of such persons. During the last year, a number of changes were made to the order of assignment and the granting of housing subsidies, which allowed subsidies to be received by many of those who had previously been refused. The aim of these changes was to provide reliable social protection for families who cannot pay for residential services after the increase in tariffs. In particular, since May 2015 the restrictions on the allocation of subsidies to unemployed workers have been lifted. If such citizens do not have income to calculate subsidies, they will be given a conditional income of two living minimums for a working person from May 1, 2016, 2900 dollars per month. At the same time, for families who find themselves in difficult circumstances under the decision of special commissions, income of 1 living minimum may be taken into account for such citizens. Myth the fifth. Subsidies are not assigned, he said, for the existence of debt from the payment of residential services. Such a rule was previously in the housing grant system, but it was cancelled in 2011. Since then, the availability of housing-communal debt cannot be a reason for the refusal of subsidies. This allows families to get out of a closed circle of new debts for utilities. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the recipient of the grant has to pay his mandatory share monthly for residential services as defined in the grant notice. And that's clear, the state helps pay for residential services, but it also imposes an obligation, a certain part of these services the grant recipient has to pay for itself. The sixth myth. It is true that the inevitable errors in filling out the declaration and, especially, when older people are often wrong, they seem to be fined for these mistakes and have to pay back the grant. That's not true. The form of the Declaration of Income and Expenses for Today is greatly simplified, to fill it in easily, and the declaration is placed on one sheet. Since July 21, 2015, only the types and sources of income need not be added to the declaration. Assistance in filling out grant documents can always be provided by specialists in the management of social protection. Information on the order of completion of the declaration is also posted on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy. No fines, I emphasize none, for mistakes in declarations. Possible sanctions only if citizens have deliberately hidden some of the important information. Myth the seventh. Information is spreading that citizens can lose subsidies if they buy currency because they sell foreign currency in Ukraine for passports. Paragraph 5 of the provision on the order of assignment and the granting of housing subsidies states that the subsidy is not granted if any member of the household made, within 12 months of the request for a grant, a one-time purchase of goods and services for a sum that exceeds 50,000 dollars on the date of purchase of the payment. The purchase of currency is not included in the list of valuable purchases that are denied the right to grant. That is, it will not result in the refusal or termination of the grant. The next myth. Regarding the fact that Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance is being tested today for the income of subsidy recipients through banking institutions. So-called verification. False is the information that the subsidy will deprive those families that have deposits of more than 50,000 dollars or other income. In fact, in the early part of the year, Minfin is carrying out a procedure for the verification of social benefits. The availability of deposits, additional incomes, and property to citizens who have sought the assistance of the State is checked. As far as grant recipients are concerned, claims can only be made according to the criteria that determine the right to grant. I would like to stress, in accordance with the current legislation on subsidies, deposits and interest, that are not included as income and are not included in the list of criteria on the basis of which the assignment or termination of a housing grant may be refused. The only criterion for the property status under which a grant can be refused is to make a one-time purchase of over 50,000 dollars. Finally, I would like to point out the ninth myth of the housing grant program. That the subsidy is not granted to parents who are retired, whose parents are registered as full - age children who live elsewhere with their families. The grant is calculated based on the number of registered persons who are paid for residential services. At the same time, on the basis of the commission’s decision, a subsidy may be granted without taking into account individual members of the household who are registered but who are not actually living in the home. I note that the decision of the commission is taken to take into account the existence of a document that confirms the temporary absence of persons registered. In some cases, in the absence of such documents, the decision of the commission is taken on the basis of an act to examine the material and household conditions of the family. The Commission's decision is mandatory for all housing providers. Yesterday, on live air, I was asked by the people in Kiev that Kievgaz did not take into account the commission's decision. I promise we'll deal with these cases. And I want to go to all the housing providers. You cannot violate existing legislation, and as stipulated in the Subsidy Order, you are obliged to carry out the commission’s decisions and to include utilities solely for the number of members of the household who are determined by such a decision. And the last one is the tenth. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you a big secret. When we're talking about six million households that we don't think we can get a subsidy on their incomes, we're looking at information on the incomes of the people's deputies themselves who are here, and I want to assure you that a large proportion of those sitting in this room are not only entitled, but also the opportunity to form a housing grant, coming out of your income last year. So please turn around, and you will also have the opportunity to form such a housing grant. And to all of our citizens, please take advantage of the opportunities offered by the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u7	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we now have 30 minutes of questions to ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to make a point, it's not a faction question, it's a question from the people's deputies. So if one of the factions didn't sign up, it wouldn't be a reason to demand a word, it would be a question from the national MPs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the recording and record. Ready? Please record a question to the government, please. Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I would like to give you my word for the question of Velikichovich Mikoli Romanovich. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u9	Good afternoon! Goose, 19th District, Volin. I'd like to ask Mr. Kubov a question. Mr. Stepan, I'm curious, not just me, but a very large number of colleagues, what is the situation with the Odessa Airport? When privatization is going to, what in general are you going to do with the government, personally as a minister? Because what we're seeing, the latest news from Odessa, is that the situation is particularly trying to stir up, the governor is constantly incomprehensible about which position he's covering, who he's working with, who he's working with, who he's working for, and so on. So what's the fate of Odessa's driveway? Will there be privatization in this context of government, please answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u10	Mr. Igor, thank you for asking. It's not only economic today, but it's also "political" in quotes. Because today politicians want to stir up the privatisation process that is due to take place on July 27, 2016. Thesis of the second, the process of evaluation, the public process, the decision-making process of the government was on-line. I want to say that the 15 billion dollars that are due to receive the budget of Ukraine or more after the privatisation of the plant is, accordingly, included today in the budget of Ukraine. And these are the standards, and this is the wages, and this is what we're counting on not only as government officials, but mainly the Ukrainian people. And thirdly, I'd like to go to the politicians who are stirring up the situation today about the corruption of the contest, that the competition is allegedly ordered by some people or others. It's totally not true. And in conclusion, this competition, first, took place with the involvement of international experts, publicity, international audit firms; secondly, the price set on market relations today; and thirdly, I ask all politicians today who want to corrupt the competition, to consider that this contest goes wrong, that the budget may not be met, is on their conscience and responsibility. The government of Ukraine, the State Property Fund, conducted this process in a transparent manner. Estimated start value of 15 billion, 27 number contest. And I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u12	Please. Regarding the Odessa governor's evaluation, Mr. Maxime, what you're saying is that this is the wrong intervention for today's contest, which comes on the 27th in the starting position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u13	Thank you. Teeth Lubomir Lvivitch, Self-help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u14	Please pass the word to the Lion of Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u15	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I have a question for Prime Minister Groisman Vladimir Borisovich. Vladimir Borisovich, may I? Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question. I have questions about the competitions that are being held to replace the positions of directors of large state companies that are joining large companies. Top 50, especially Ukrenergo. Vladimir Borisovich, in particular the company Ukrenergo, which is a system operator and the competition was held in May. At the beginning of June, the winner of the best candidate was selected by the nomination committee. To this day, there is no appointment for this position and, according to the Energy Minister, the winner is undergoing a special test. Can you explain what this special inspection is and how long it will take? And if it isn't a deliberate delay in the task process to create absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u16	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u17	That this is not an intentional delay to do completely opaque and criminal operations in the company. Directly in the company, especially by using tariffs approved by the NCRE for the company four times higher, was raised four times last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u18	I want to answer this question from three points or from the three problems that we have put. The first problem, the competition that was held today in the government, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, corresponded to the clear position of the commission, which consists of representatives of the Ukrainian part and representatives of international experts, where there are representatives of the European Bank, where there are representatives of the International Monetary Fund, where there are representatives of audiences and other firms. This competition was held, first of all, in public. As a result of this contest in most votes, and in fact with one "holded", the chosen candidate. With regard to the procedure for carrying out documents, there is a law and there is a position. And we asked this question last week that this procedure should be completed, it went up to a maximum of one and a half months in other businesses. And after this procedure is over, I don't think this procedure you're talking about has a bad purpose. And there will be an appropriate decision, and the Minister of Energy must, by his command, appoint a suitable leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u20	Good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to ask you a question, please, to pass it on to Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u21	Vladislav Golub, Petra Poroshenko Block faction, 197 constituency, Cherkaščina. I have a question for Stepan Ivanovich Kubiva, First Vice Prime Minister. Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, there were questions about competitions for state enterprises. I've got a question for you about an enterprise competition called Skrtranshimyak. At present, Mr. Polozov Viktor Alexanderovich, who has business in the Russian Federation, is working there to pay taxes in the Russian Federation, a country that is sponsoring terrorists and killing our Ukrainians. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I address you above all as a Ukrainian and a sincere patriot. Please tell me, what is the situation with the "Ukratranshimikac" competition, what steps does the government take to prevent such "patriots" (in paws) from engaging in strategic activities of our enterprise, the Ukrainian enterprise? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u22	I want to put a stop to this question, first of all to the Ukrainian people, including. Mr. Bondick, who worked not for a year, not for two, not three, not four, for previous governments, including our government, was subject to immediate release. This was not easy in connection with existing legislation. Personally, with the agreement of the Prime Minister and the information of all ministers, this man is dismissed. The other one. By law, we placed Mr. Polozov in charge, and on the same day I signed an order to form a commission and announce a competition. A competition that actually starts in two days, I think, will be open, public, and will accordingly identify the strongest candidate in this field. And the third. "Transamiak" throughout the entire period of independence of Ukraine is one of the most corrupt structures, this structure that today is a disgrace to the 24 years that we will change accordingly today through an open public competition. Whether we were properly assigned to perform our duties or not, we followed the law’s view, for we expect the judicial contrast from their side and the dispute. After consulting with the lawyers, we went: first to release, second to move quickly, third to organize a commission, and fourth to hold an open public competition. What I'm about to inform you, Your Honor's colleagues are the deputies of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u23	Musei Oleg Stepanovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u24	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, the issue of burning tericons in my district, where there is a Czervonograd enrichment plant, has already been raised before the government for nine months. As of today, I'm bringing to your attention that Mr. Zubko has promised me in the previous government to call a government commission to shut down terriphones. The Minister of Energy has promised three months to call it, the Minister of Ecology promises to call. But good people, the conclusions of the santation show that the disease of people three times, children three times, is 100,000. Terricon's on fire, and no one's doing anything. The state of emergency is denied. Highlight funds from the contingency fund. Well, he can't, because there's only 100,000 people to be killed in the district. Vladimir Borisovich, please take immediate steps to extinguish this ecological catastrophe.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u25	Thank you, thank you. Mr. President, Oleg Stepanovich. Today, at 2 p.m., this commission will be conducted by Zubko, a professional vice-premier, and all necessary measures will be taken to ensure that we do not experience such extraordinary fire situations. Including, I want to inform you that we and the DSS have allocated an additional fuel resource, what is needed for them to respond adequately. But we can put out fires, and we need to do that, but we need to think about global decision-making, not just with terricones, but including garbage dumps in Ukraine. We know what a huge problem this is. We're working on it very systematically today. Thank you. And at 2 o'clock, if you want, join in with the vice-premier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich. Please, Mr. Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u27	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. I have a question for Mr. Igor Nasalik, Minister of Energy. Minister, please tell me something's going on in the Ministry. There are some reforms in nuclear energy, but I just can't understand where we're going, and what is your development strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. In fact, the issue of nuclear energy concerns everyone, and concerns the President of the State, and the Prime Minister, and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy directly. I have to say that 8 months of NAEC "Energot" were blocked accounts. And Naek "Energot" couldn't do absolutely any economic activity. Praise God that the last month of the issue has been resolved, and for today there are accounts that are first and foremost allowed to work in the nuclear industry. On the other hand, we held a meeting on the basis of the NAEC "Energoatom", which enabled us to now review the repairs on the blocks. We've completely changed the strategy of function. And so all the fears that were on July 1st, and you could hear a lot of different experts, that from July 1st, in Ukraine, there's going to be a blur, there's going to be electricity imports from Russia, there's going to be coal imports from Russia, there's going to be gas, there's going to be gas bars, there's going to be a wind shut-off, and that's going to sound from the mouth of specialists, and that's not relevant today. We did technical and other work. And today, in this room, we need to tell not only the members of the Supreme Council, but all the people of our country, that we are not importing any kilowatt electricity today, we are not buying any kilograms of coal from the Russian Federation, but we have no faith shut-offs, and the system is working or just hard. Moreover, we must say that we have created a crisis headquarters that is beginning to work, which will be led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and in this direction the President of Ukraine is working actively. And I can say in a word, we'll do everything we can to go through a difficult period of summer, where the most utilization is so that we don't have any problems during the fall-winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u30	I have a question to the representative of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, and it will also be passed on to the head of the government. It's a question of this nature. Please tell me, when will the pay raise for military intelligence be lifted? The point is that this raise was passed out long ago, the funds were set aside. I don't understand. We've already had wages raised in the General Staff, we've had salaries raised in all the rear wards, and there's no salaries raised directly from the front lines, including the military structure of military intelligence. So the question is specific. When the salary is raised to representatives, employees, military intelligence officers, who had been abrogated long ago, and the funds were allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. In fact, military intelligence is funded by individual articles. This question was discussed even yesterday under. At a meeting held by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. I am confident that this issue will soon lead to practical decisions on the resolution of all salaries and positions that are at the General Staff, which are at the General Intelligence Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Lavrik Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u33	I have a question for the Minister of Fuel and Energy. Mr. Minister, to remove any insinuation that prevents the Ministry from making absolute public and transparent the pricing of domestic energy resources, namely: the full calculation of self-sustainment, volume, balance profit, net profit, its direction on investment, the result over periods. This is especially true of natural gas, oil, electricity, solid fuel. And the second question to the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Is the State Program for the Restoration of Animals, primarily the head of the CRC, being developed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u34	Let me answer the last part of the questions, I'll be brief. In fact, the program exists, the issue of the allocation of funds for this program, and today we and the government stand for 1 percent of agricultural production in Ukraine to be supported. And this support is primarily planned for small and medium-sized producers and, above all, for large cattle, because there is a very large employment aspect. We hope that this program will be voted in the Supreme Council in the context of support, and this is about 5 billion dollars of support. I think that if we make that decision with the Supreme Council, the situation in the field will improve very significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please. And yet to be answered, part two, I'm sorry. Please, the second part of the question, then Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u36	Thank you for asking, but I wanted to tell the deputies which ones, by the way, I always accept from 7:00 to 7:45 a.m., MP Corps. And I have to say that the Ministry of Energy and Coal includes energy and coal. Neither NAC Naftogaz nor Ukrnafta nor Skrtransnafta and other objects are in the administration of another ministry, the Ministry of Economics. As for his ministry, he has to say that we have a solid balance of energy resources per year, scheduled repairs of work on thermal, atomic blocks. There's a total coal balance. And I have to tell the deputy corps today that's been through a meeting where we've identified a price policy indicator for coal. On the basis of the indicator, the Ministry took the Polish Stock Exchange. And I have to say that it's going to be significantly different from Rotterdam Plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Kishkar gives the word Krivenkov. Turn on Krivenkov's microphone now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u38	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. I have a question for Andrey Alexiyovich Reva, and for our distinguished Mr. Prime Minister. Question two. First. In March of that year, during the changes to the State Budget Act, I was initiated and supported by the Self-Help faction and the Budget Committee. The creation of a 300 million-dollar scheme to buy housing for families of dead military personnel, disabled persons, and Category II. To let each family know that if her father went to the front, that if she needed to improve living conditions, she would be socially protected throughout her life in the stadiums, in the hostels. For each soldier to know that his family would be protected if he did not prove to God, something would happen to him. In that year, 640 apartments were purchased, according to my information. All of these funds were spent by the Cabinet of Ministers in the area, in the region. And here's the information, and it's in the Ministry of Social Policy, like the hero of Ukraine Zubka, who died, when his wife got an apartment like this, in a picture, on the screen. Therefore, because she lives in Hmielnick, she was not purchased in Hmmelnick. And we see information in some areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u40	purchased housing is more expensive than market value. What is planned this year this program continues. Asking your policy to tell us how these abuses will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u41	You've got the microphone on, just talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. In this particular case, we need to look into it, because this is a matter of concern to the regional authorities, and today I'm tasking us with a professional vice-premier and governor, the head of the district government to deal with this issue. If, indeed, violations have been committed, we will react very quickly, and if we need additional help to this family, we too will be determined. Thank you for reporting this incident, and I ask you to give me more specific information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u44	I have a question for the Minister of Energy and the coal industry of Ukraine. Dear Igor Stepanovich, at the end of April, right after the appointment of the new government, I asked you about the debt owed to the miners of the government mines, and then you went very softly out of debt. And that was understandable, because then the debt, it was the direct responsibility of the previous government, where there were especially many issues to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. But it's been 100 days since the work of the new government, and I'd still like to ask, what is the current debt to coal miners, why the Volinwogil miners are on strike, why the Selidewwogil miners are starving and whether they will end the new government with debt owed to the miners of the state mines and when.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u45	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. I have two things to tell you. In order to understand the whole depth of the carbon problem, let me just give you one digit. The debt for electricity consumption amounts to 10 billion dollars. That's why we're shutting down both. And.. and we're not even allowed to produce coal at all. On the other hand, if you pick up all the coal we produce, sell it, it'll be 230 million, and the amount you have to pay off the wages is 450 million. So each month's difference is more than 180 million dollars. But I want to thank the budget committee of the Supreme Council, who, sitting down yesterday, made a budget shift, and we found 200 million extra dollars to pay for miners. I want to thank the Ministry of Finance for taking this step. And he has to say that the miner's day will pay a full salary. But on the other hand, I have to say that we have mines where the coal cost is 27,000 dollars, it's going to be gold soon. So the Ministry has developed a program where the "a" will be completely eliminated 11-13 mines, and together with the British Adaptation Fund, we will be able to work for the people where it will be eliminated. Seven mines, the most profitable, we're going to leave behind the state, and we're going to let everyone else privatize. This is the way to restructure the entire coal industry, there are no other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u46	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u47	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a call to the Prime Minister and to all government officials when you're lying to the whole country, when you're misleading people, when you're just lying, whether you're blushing or not, because the TV doesn't convey your emotions? When you talk about raising social standards, you raised the social standards from May 1 by 5 percent, you know how much the prices for drugs went up, how much did the utility prices go up because of your decisions? When half a million pensioners in Ukraine receive less than a thousand dollars, can you survive on the pension of less than a thousand dollars, or can the Ukrainians survive on that pension? Mr. Prime Minister, is it comfortable for you to see that the entire faction of Parliament over a month requires you to return the tax rate on gas consumption, lower tariffs, investigate corruption, resign Danieluk, the director of three offshore companies? Do you feel comfortable sitting here protesting your genocide? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich! I'm supposed to ask you if it's comfortable for you to be there on the floor. If you are not comfortable, take your seats in the hall. But this is your right, this is democracy. You know, I think the main thing that a person has is that. It's the ability to tell the truth. And in fact, all I'm saying as Prime Minister, I believe that, and I think that the assessment of what's going on in the country and our steps is honest. I heard your sleeping, one minute where you were telling me how bad people are living and everything. But I have a question: After what you said, did they get to live better? No! No! Because, unfortunately, Ukrainian politics and populism in Ukrainian politics have led people to hear from politicians who need to live better, to get better wages, to see the actions of these politicians involved in developing a national economy, to take certain anticorruption steps, to start public privatization, and many other things. This is a set for every country in the world. The set of reforms, it's about the same. And you can see it by looking at Poland, Slovakia, other countries of the European Union, America. Where you see high standards of living, look what they did when there were such economic challenges. And you'll see what we've done to you. But the main thing is the ability to make these changes quickly and to reform quickly. And I would like to point out today that we have to fight not to lower market prices to negative gas, not to introduce a positive amount of gas. Do you realize what a tax amount of gas is? It's for every family in the country to write 2.4 thousand cubes on your version and offer. That would mean that this gas would be purchased there, so let's say, for two thousand, and then sold in a commercial market for seven, is that what you want to bring back the Destroyer schemes? I'm asking, I think it's time to tell the truth, it's time to make responsible decisions, and the main thing is to protect the Ukrainian from these market prices, and it's possible to do this through two things: first and immediately, it's compensation because of the irreversible aid of subsidies, it's an address aid to the state that really needs it. And everyone else, I set an example today, last time, that there are politicians that have a house 500 square meters away. You tell me which house you live in, we'll count it. I want to tell you, for a house like this, at a tax price, every regular Ukrainian paid his share to compensate you for 25,000 dollars a month for the price of gas, because you wanted to set the benefits for yourself. And here's the question, it's a small supplement, so to speak, for the MP's salary. I'd like to say one more thing. You're always doing what you do to get people into nightmares. You're saying that everything is going to be bad, that in autumn, when people get payments, they're just going to fall into darkness. For once, sit down and count, and tell the people the truth. Last year, every Ukrainian family paid not more than 12 percent of their own income for residential services, benefits or subsidies. And I agree that 5 percent of raising social standards or 10 is not enough, because we need to increase the economy. Growth in the economy can be when we adopt responsible laws, and this law government will conscientiously implement and lead into life. I've been addressing you for the last time: vote for the privatization of enterprises, especially the Easter. Why? For this to be a corrupt enterprise, they drive left-wing alcohol and take money, billions, tens of billions from the Ukrainian budget. We're starting a reform of Ukrainian customs together with the United States. We'll find reserves there. I would like to emphasize, I don't know, I don't think you voted in favour of this decision, but the government, together with most of the deputies, with the support of the Head of the Supreme Council, this is the government that has achieved the adoption of the Law on the Deregulation of Drug Prices. And that would mean that the drugs in Ukraine would go down in price and the quality would go up. And one more thing, fellow officials with respect to tariffs. You know, I thank the Ukrainian National Deputies for publishing one very important document. I'd like to read it to you right now. That's our answer to the populists. You know, one leader of one political power is saying that Ukrainian gas costs $20, which is a complete nonsense. But to say, as I said before, it's a "total" populism that in 20 years and more of our independence has not yet proved its ability to solve people's real problems. So what I'm saying is, in 2008, October 31st was signed a Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. Now I want to tell you from this rostrum: I have not signed any memos, no colleagues. Here are the signatures, including the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who is signed. So, it says here, "Dear colleagues," in paragraph 17, and let me read it for you. This is what Julia Volodymyrna signed: "In order to provide a long-term basis for the continuation of sound financing, as well as to organize NAC Naftogazu's financial relationship with the budget, by the end of 2011, we, the government, are comparing prices for internal gas and prices for imported gas." This is what this government has done. But if this were to be done in 2008, today Ukraine would be energy efficient, there would be no Oneshchenka scheme. And I think that in many, including those present or present in this room, there would be no modern - day airplanes, yachts, ships and all. [[Applause]] Such a decision will be taken in October 2008. In parallel to this date, the price of imported gas consumed by heat utility companies will be reduced by quarterly tariff adjustment and will cease to exist by July 1, 2010. Next. Looking ahead, we intend to establish a more powerful regulatory base in such a way that tariffs are depoliticized. I'm the one who called on the city councils to decide to stop the tariff recalculation. Second position. 18th paragraph, the testimony of Julia Volodymyrna. We would like to assure you that we have an effective social protection system, that I'm talking about subsidies, who doesn't know what will help vulnerable groups that can have a negative impact on economic adjustment, that is, help people. What I'd like to say. There is a real position, there are real leaders, there are people who believe what they say, there are leaders who fight for the country and for its citizens. And there are pseudolliders who imitate the fight for Ukraine, who imitate the struggle for a Ukrainian citizen for one or two reasons -- to get one or five extra percent in the election and then be the biggest disappointment for the same Ukrainian people. The time of populism has passed. The time has come for responsible social, economic policies. And our government is ready to fight for reforms, ready to fight for Ukraine and for every citizen. And, of course, we're going to do this with you, with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank both the Prime Minister and our officials for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We wish them success and wish them a united activity. Dear colleagues, we've had a statement from two factions, from the People's Front faction and the Peter Poroshenko Block, calling for a recess. But they're ready to replace the People's Front with a break from the rostrum. Who will speak from you, please? Yes, Auntie Blackwall. Instead of a break, we have a performance. Aunty Blackwall, three minutes out of the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u50	I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen. Tanya, one second. I'm asking you to calm down. A national deputy is speaking. Colleagues, Oleg Valeriyovich! Please, Mrs. Tetjana, you can perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u52	I want to make a statement that the Supreme Council is going on holiday with great guilt before the Ukrainian people. Most of the members of the Supreme Council who came to this hall, ploughing on the slogans of Maidan, on the values of Maidan, were unable to make simple and simple: to return to the state budget 50 billion dollars stolen from the same budget by Yanukovic and his followers. I'm going to say there's money in the budget right now. The financing of military and repair factories has now stopped. On the issue of the financing of military salaries, on the issue of pension financing, on the issue of the financing of teachers. And at the Savings Bank, Ukreximbank has been in custody for two years now, stolen by Yanukovich. The MPs could have done a simple thing: return the funds to the state budget. Why didn't they? I think the answer, the motivation of those who blocked the adoption of this law, is corruption. So until we've earned before, we've started working in September, there's time. And that's why I'm addressing the NAB, and I'm not the only one who's addressing the People's Front faction. I am speaking as a coalition that NAB must demonstrate its effectiveness to the Ukrainian people and investigate the reasons for such a shameful blocking of Ukraine's necessary bill. The corruption grounds, the investigation of Kurchenk's tracks, all those people who, I repeat, came to the Supreme Council on Maidan's blood and blocked the return of the funds stolen from Yanukovich back to the state budget. NAB is obliged to investigate their corruption. Under the obligation to investigate the financing of Oneshchenk, the Supreme Council granted permission to arrest him, these deputies. Investigate the financing of Kurchenk, these deputies. Also, in order not to waste time, I ask the NAB to take over the rights of Arbuzov right now, where most of the funds I've been talking about have been arrested. And demonstrate your effectiveness. I'm going to point out that in 2016, the Yatsenuk government was going to finance the NAB 500 million dollars. These costs, the great cost to our state, these costs have to be worked out, worked for this state, for its national interests. And the biggest challenge now is for NAB to return the funds stolen from Yanukovic to the budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u53	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I have been approached by a number of national deputies to read today all the questions that have come to the fore so that they can all be answered. There are 312 of them, respected colleagues. I don't think there's gonna be any objection to us using today to make sure they're all read. I think it's going to be respect for the MPs and their constituents who are supposed to protect them because of their questions of interest. And I pass the word to read the questions to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. As last Friday’s presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was blocked, it was not possible to read the requests and so a record number, 316 requests, gathered. People’s deputies are asking that everyone be read today so that they do not wait until September. And I'll try to deal with it. And we have a few questions, your honor, to the President of Ukraine. As you know, when you look at the queries to the President of Ukraine, first you have to give a name for the request, that's at least 150 votes. And that's why I'm now making a request to the President of Ukraine. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine on the removal of the fine "is not subject to publication" and on the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for the former National Deputies of the USSR and the Soviet Union, the former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company and their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. Please allow me to vote in favour of the request. Please support this request, Your Honor. [[11:15:53]] For-65 Unfortunately, there are only 65 votes that testify to the absence of discipline in the session room. Request of Hope Savchenko to the President of Ukraine for the illegal use of the land of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Please put to the vote in favour of this motion. [[11:16:23]] Z-71 71, unfortunately, just a voice. Request not supported. Request for a national MP, Alexander Nechayev, to the President of Ukraine, for the facts of the violation of the current Ukrainian legislation regarding the persecution of citizens on political grounds in the Mikolayiv region. Please be supportive. In support of the request. [[11:16:55]] For-67 Unfortunately, only 67 votes. Request not supported. And I'm starting to read out the questions of all the distinguished national MPs to other authorities and institutions. Thus, Victor Razwadowski is acting as U.S. Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the provision of a health - care ambulance for the general practice of family medicine in the village of Visoja Pich of the Žitomir region, in the area of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a pipe for disabled person Jaroslav Žytsky, born in 1984, resident of the village of Villha Romanovski district, Žitomir district. Sergia Dunayeva to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on a catastrophic situation that has taken place in the state-owned enterprise of the Lysichanskowil, at the Privolnjanska Mine in the city of Privily Lugansk Region, which could lead to technological disasters and social explosions in the region, as well as an immediate response by the State to the facts of non-professional governance, corruption, damage to the state at a particularly large scale. Helen Matuzko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the criminal inaction of the state executive Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Department of State Executive Service of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev, Oleg Grechuha, and the official sabotage of the execution of judgements in case No. 760/8383/15-z of 27.10.2015 and the execution of case No.50571206 of 23.03. 2016 on the collection of debts for loans from Melnik Boris Vasilovich for the benefit of the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Jurik Pevec; on the initiation of the official review of the designated public executioner and his management on the grounds of service inaction and deliberate failure to perform his duties under Ukrainian legislation, on the basis of the results of the verification, to bring to justice the responsibility of the officials responsible. Tetjana Crnowol to the Rector of the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantis to provide documents relating to the results of the tests and audits of the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantis, as well as the correction by the Administration of the Medical University of detected violations and damages to the state of damage. Jegora Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for granting free access to the State Register of Real Estate Rights. Andrija Lopushanski to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the preparation of the order and commission of the Sixth World Combat Festival Programme and for the establishment of an organ committee to carry out the above-mentioned action. Oleg Musia to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Violation of Legislation on the Protection of Economic Competition. Oleg Musia to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to protect the rights of miners in the formation of occupational diseases. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of state-of-the-art targeted assistance to participants in hostilities and their children, children registered as internally displaced persons, for the purpose of obtaining vocational and higher education. Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of criminal investigations into illegal possession and the destruction of state property at the "Stragrotechservis" in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast. Taras Shepherd to Ukraine’s Defense Minister for the improper performance of duties by officials for the issuance of documents for the dead ATO participant Vladimir Vuka. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the implementation of the economic and social development programmes of the Trieste region of the Suma region in 2016, as well as the preparation of social facilities in the region for proper work in the autumn and winter period 2016-2017. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to raise social standards and guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. Andrija Derkača to the finance minister of Ukraine for the proper funding of a program to rehabilitate deaf children on account of cochlear implantation at the legislative level. Helen Sotnik to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for information on the status of international agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for violating the reasonable terms of the conduct of the pretrial investigation and the prosecution of the criminal case against Paul Broslawski and for keeping him in custody for 10 years without a verdict. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the results of activities and budget expenditure of the Ministry of Information Policy of Ukraine. Vladimir Husak to the head of the Nicole District State Administration for the non-derogable violation of the constitutional rights of civil servants of the Nicole District State Administration. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of financing the project for the construction of two new TVs in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the rapid investigation of business robbery on the international route of Kiev-Uman-Odes. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the clarification of the circumstances that led to the collapse of unfinished construction in the city of Chernivci. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on inadequate state policy in the field of energy efficiency in Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the harmonization of the required documents and the order of payment and social guarantees of demobilized ATO participants. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the planned budget allocations to finance the coal sector in the formation of the State Budget for 2017. Vadim Krivohatka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the elimination of violations of the law during the investigation of criminal conduct under the suspicion of the chief physician of Zaporozhye County Hospital of Shiška in the commission of particularly serious crimes. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for the Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on providing support in the difficult life situation of ATO’s member Udodik Hope of Volodymyrina from the city of Dubrovic of the Plain region. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the ban on the restoration of the Marian Palace on the basis of the allocations envisaged for the construction of the modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit". Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing to justice officials responsible for the non-working state of the unique EMEDS field hospital worth $7 million to save the lives of fighters on the front. Jaroslava Dubnević, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the prohibition of the import of illegal excise goods from the temporarily occupied territory to another territory of Ukraine. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the deposit tax mechanism. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate on the state of individual elements of the Ukrainian nuclear-industrial complex. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the persecution of independent journalist Rudenko Artem Sergiyovich for journalistic activity. Peter Vanata to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the building of the former Institute of Animal Engineering of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Zaporozhye to the Hortic National Reserve. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation, the minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine on the threat of environmental disaster, the pollution of drinking water in Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to housing and to extend the term of admission to self-built housing facilities and objects of the first and second category of complexity. Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the possible threat to environmental security in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Dubininin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the restoration of the railway connection to the Grand Beach station in the Zakarpatsky region. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the exploration of gas fields in the village of Wilhove. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the destabilisation of Ukraine's political situation in the Lugansk region during the electoral campaign, the brutal assassination of the head of the district electoral commission, Eugene Byramov, the systematic pressure on local government authorities, the electoral process in the 114th constituency, the prolonged inaction of local law enforcement authorities on crimes and crimes in this area, and the impunity of criminals, which stimulates the development of criminal activities in the region. Igor Guza to the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district on the possibility of a baseless extradition of a citizen of the Russian Federation arrested in Kharkiv. Igor Guza to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to pay for the use of electricity by coal companies in the Volin region. John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds for the construction of a modern cultural building in the village of High Tomaspil district of Winnitsk. Eugene Ribczynski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for providing information on the preparation of a number of normative acts. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, Head of the Lviv District Council for the Repair of Road Coverage in the village of Staré Selo Putomitov district of Lviv district, where there is the largest castle in the Lviv region. Groups of National Deputies (Vilkula, Pavlova and others - only 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the conservation of the Curriculum Training and Production Enterprise of the Ukrainian Blind Association and the compensation of VAT to the 806,000-dollar enterprise. Vasil Janicky to the head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plain region for the restoration of transportation connections between the villages of Dertt and Bud Rokitni district of Rivna district and the district center. Olga Bogolitz, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the urgent resolution of problems with the payment of food and medical expenses in hospitals for war veterans who are in the financing of the MoE of Ukraine (Ukraine State Medical and Social Centre for War Veterans and Hospital for Internationalist Soldiers, Lisova Polina). Vladimir Aresonkova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the work of the Liseng company Your Auto. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Ukrainian State Audit Service for the conduct of a review of the activities of the Zitomir District Office of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment and individual separate units. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the appeal of the 10-year-old Olga Davidovna to the mother of the anti-terrorist operation Dedeterinko Dmitr Alexanderovich, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa, on the need to provide material assistance for treatment and rehabilitation after the service, comprehensive assistance from socio-economic issues and employment opportunities, as well as the settlement of the issue of improving housing conditions or depriving land. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the objective review of the appeal of war veteran Kostin Grigori Fedorovich, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa for assistance in the installation of a heat counter in House 63 on Williams Street in Odessa, and the timely provision of a comprehensive clarification of the legislation on housing and utility tariffs for socially vulnerable sections of the population. The Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Natural Persons, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets on the Inaction of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Hontareva, in the matter of infringement of legislation by representatives of the PAT Government, Bank Mikhailivski. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recognition of Salina's tragedy in the Old Parliament of the Lviv Region with regard to the memory of victims of Ukrainian and Polish peoples and the need to remember sufferers annually at the national level. John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Kirovograd District State Administration, for the provision of accommodation for the self-inflicted participant of the fighting activities of Kabachenko Sergey Alexanderovich. Dmitry Kolesnikov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for his opposition to the destruction of the state air defence company ZAVOD 410 CA and the illegal release of his leader. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the creation in the city of Nizhin Chernigiv County of the Historical and Architectural Reserve of State importance, referring him to the sphere of administration of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Security in the Northern Chernigian Region, which borders with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of gas through the provision of fourteen general educational institutions in the Jashkov district of the Cherkas region. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent solution to the issue of funding allocations to prevent the sinking of the coal mines of the State-owned enterprise. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent solution to the issue of State support to the Independent Unit of the "Gyrian" of the State Enterprise "The First Handicraft". Bogdan Dubnevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the rational use of the premises. Andrija Derkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the risk of discrimination against Ukrainian domestic manufacturing companies in connection with the introduction of the "ProZorro" autonomous electronic trading system as one that does not offer preferences to Ukrainian engineering and industrial enterprises. Groups of National Deputies (Pavlova, Galchenka, Shurma) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the leadership of the State concert "Ukrobanprom", which can have a major impact on the level of airworthiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Teams of MPs (Jacenka, Macola, and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the necessary measures to finance the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and to ensure that deaf children are provided with hearing aid systems. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the solution of issues that arise in the regions, particularly in the Dnipropetrovsk region, in connection with the creation of united territorial communities. Andrija Shipka to Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on the implementation of measures aimed at building peace, restoring and developing the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and reintegrating the territory and its population into Ukraine's only constitutional space. Groups of National Deputies (Sustlow, Gorvat, Tkavacu) to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Justice for the Disagreement of Legislation on the Movement of Certain Goods across the Customs Border of Ukraine. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets in the field of public service in relation to public officials of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of financial services markets, whose actions/inaction have led to the fraud of the funds of individuals in the accounts of the Investment and Accounting Centre and the TOV Credit and Investment Centre under the form of PAT deposit products "Bank Mihailivski". Paul Rizanenka, head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in construction work in the second residential district of the city of Brovary, in the area of the streets of Bodenska and Majakovsky. Vladimir Lithuania to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on illegal activities during the pre-election campaign in the interim elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on an urgent ophthalmological operation, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of the budget of an eight-year-old child. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unjustification and inadequacy of the increase in electricity and gas prices and tariffs for the population. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for providing textbooks for students in general schools. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the strengthening of social protection in conditions of higher prices and tariffs for municipal services. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the replacement of windows at places of general use of a residential building on 23 Milutenko Street, taking into account repeated appeals by residents. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kiev City State Administration, to provide information on the cost of using the budget to create a municipal property database and to take steps to create a single information register of the free and rented premises of the Kyiv district community. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, Head of the Vinnitsky District Council, Vinnitsky City Head for the provision of housing for the residents of the eight-bedroom apartment building on 22nd Street of Duženka (Leningrad) in Winnice. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund, Head of the Vinnick District Administration and Vinicko District Council, Director of the Department of Social and Youth Policy of the Vinnick district government administration, Head of the Pension Fund in Vinnica City for pension insurance for persons living outside Ukraine and the conclusion of international pension agreements with the countries of the European Union. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the elimination of the accident of the road by road of general use of the local meaning of Derazny – Colosovka (h/h Galuzinzi – Guljak). Sergey Firemarck to the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of the actions of officials of the territorial authorities of the State Fiscal Service. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Director-General of the State Enterprise Coal of Ukraine for the coal sector and the prospects for its work in Ukraine. Romana Macola to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the use of measures aimed at providing service housing for military and ATO members of the A 2375 military unit in Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Roman Macola to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the provision of full, objective and comprehensive investigation into the criminal conduct of the death of an ATO member of ATO Koval Maksim Aleksandrovitch. Alexia Lensky and Alexia Kirichenko to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Suma District State Administration for the use of immediate measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Constitution to life and health of the environment, the elimination of the ecological danger faced by residents of the Romanian region who have encountered the problem of fishing, pollution of the Sula River with chemical substances, the provision of quality drinking water for citizens, the capture of the river and the verification of the causes of the fish’s seas and the inaction of controlling and controlling authorities. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the use of immediate measures aimed at eliminating the ecological danger that threatens the historic landscape of the Boogo - Guardian Palace of Zaporozky, located in the South Bug Valley in the vicinity of South Ukraine’s Mikolai district as a result of the construction of the Taslic Atomic Power Plant. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to continue funding the Chernobyl Regional Perinatal Centre. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the involvement of officials of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in criminal liability for the late dispatch of a letter to the tenant about the termination of the lease agreement of the Dnipro-Boskie Seaport. Sergey Rudika and Oleg Petrenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the comprehensive verification of the activities of the DVN "University of Banking" and its structural departments: The Church Institute of Science and Science, the Kharkiv Institute of Science and Science, the Lviv Institute of Science and the Institute of Banking Technology and Business. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the exemption of citizens from payment for changes to the State Register of Rights in connection with the renunciation of streets, alleys and settlements of Kamyansk, Smilanski and Cherkas region of the Cherkas region and other areas of Ukraine. Dimitar Timchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of an arms certification and military technology system in Ukraine to meet NATO standards (STANAG). Savchenko's hopes for the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal use of the land of the Ministry of Defence. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the collection of unpaid wages to former workers of the Kremenack Combine of Healing Products of the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil District State Administration for the payment of medical assistance to the medical staff of the Lanewetsk Central District Hospital, 2015 - 2016. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the use of urgent measures to eliminate the effects of natural disasters in the region of the Glybecko region, the Glybecko region, sorry, the area of the village of Toporovci of the Novoseltsky region and the Sadgir district of the town of Chernivci. Sergio Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Kirovograd Regional Educational and Scientific Association of Ukrainian Education Workers to regulate the activities of the Social Insurance Fund. Groups of National Deputies (Logwine, Dove, and others) A total of 16 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the use of measures within the competence of the rescheduling of government procurement in 2016 for the National University of Odessa Law Academy. Vladislav Doub to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of a criminal investigation by officials of the city of Złotonos Cherka oblast. Vladislava Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the activities of officials in the city of Złotonos Cherkas region. Alexander Revega to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to invigorate the investigation into the criminal conduct of the Russian Armed Forces of the Berdichov GNP in the Žitomirsk region. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the application of measures to implement the decision of the Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir Region of 22 August 2011. Vladislav Sevrukov to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian National Radio Centre for Information on the Use of Radio Frequency 174-230 MHz in accordance with the project of the Plan of Action for the Implementation of Digital Broadcasting in Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings on the grounds of the circumstances found by the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for causing the State budget of Ukraine material damage. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Plain area in the list of areas involved in the experiment on financial security for the reconstruction and the ongoing repair of road traffic. Paul Kiskar to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, the Public Environmental Council of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, the Public Shareholder Society "Dniproenergo" on the non-implementation of the "Pridniprovska TES" Memorandum of Cooperation in the Field of Environmental Protection. Alexia Savchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the State Small and Medium-sized Enterprise Development Programme for 2014-2024. Taras Batenka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund to address the problem of recalculation of the pension insurance of the VAT-bankrupt company's employees. Tarasa Batenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, head of the Hmeljna District Administration, procurator of the Hmeljna District, temporarily acting as head of the National Police Department in the Hmeljna Region to ensure the return of land with the origin of glauconic quartz sand to state property. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on taking urgent action to prevent the environmental disaster in Mariupoli of the Donetsk Region. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of the current Ukrainian legislation on the persecution of citizens on political grounds in the Mikolayiv region. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the funds needed to preserve cultural heritage in Odessa. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, head of the Kyiv District State Administration to find out the reasons for the lack of funding for the construction of a school for 198 students with a kindergarten of 80 places on the street of the Communars in the city of Fastov. Ruslan Solvar is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to include projects of the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics in Ukraine’s targeted social programs to combat tuberculosis. Alexander Vilkula to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Children's Rights, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for Unlawful Management of the Supreme Province and the Department of Education for the Closure of the High-Principal High School No. 3-III of the Dnipropetrov Region. Group of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionovo, Lucenko) to Commander of the Armed Forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the conditions of residence of Ukrainian military forces. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on changing the type of higher vocational school No. 25 of Hmelnickéch to the vocational education institute "Hmelnické Professional College". Oleg Petrenk to the Head of the Ukrainian Bureau, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for the criminalization of the city's capital, Toretsk Donetsk Region, Sliptsov Vladimir Mikitović, because of his activities aimed at undermining Ukraine's state sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the inflamation of national hostility in Ukraine. Vladimir Parasuka, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of private enterprises in the territory of the former VO "Syrka", Yavorów district of Lviv district, for possible tax evasion. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to contribute to the provision of land to ATO participants in a village of the city type Ivano-Frankov Yavorovsk district of Lviv region. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for free provision of textbooks by students of the elementary classes of the general educational institutions in 2016/2017 academic year. Ruslan Demczak to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Kyiv district of the Chief State Inspector for Environmental Protection of the Kyiv region for the verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation during the operation of the solid waste site in the village of Tarasówka, Kyiv region. Roman Semenha to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for initiating disciplinary conduct in relation to judges. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the improvement of the railway connection between the cities of Kharkiv and Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Kingdom, Solod, Pavlovka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of population issues that have been affected by an anti-terrorist operation. Groups of National Deputies (Kingdom, Solod, Pavlovka) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on speeding up the consideration of bills aimed at resolving the problems of the population affected by the anti-terrorist operation. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, for the settlement of payments by the State Treasury Service, which is guaranteed by the State. Andrija Shinkovič is responsible for Ukraine’s Ministry of Health for the need to maintain a day - to - day station, laboratories, and dentists in the health centres of the united territorial communities. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the privatization of the Hmelnickoblenergo PAT, not by private individuals, but by the territorial communities of the area as a guarantee of the energy independence of Hmelnickina. Sergija Matvienkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of state support for the Azomash Group's enterprises. Paul Djublik and Vadim Krivenk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of additional funding for maintenance and maintenance of the highways of the Žitomir region. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the improper work of the right-wing police department in Kiev. Jury Pavlovka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the situation of external interference in satellite telephony of the channel "Ukraine", which made it impossible to broadcast the semifinals of Euro-2016. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of commercial accounting for natural gas. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Viennese District State Administration on the extraordinary technological situation of local importance that arose in the village of Ozarinz Mogilov-Podil district of Winnicki district and led to a halt in the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants of this populated area. Jury of Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval of a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state order for the training of workers and younger professionals in the field of vocational and technical education for the 2016/2017 academic year. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the approval of a separate decision on the State order for the training of workers and younger professionals in the field of vocational and technical education for the 2016/2017 academic year. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Latin Regional Military Commissioner of the Vinnitsk Region, for further service in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Senior Lieutenant of the Medical Service, Mojcan Yuri Petrovich, on a contractual basis. Groups of National Deputies (Spenova, Vilkula, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the head of the BSC on possible violations of Ukrainian legislation on the state secret by officials of the DK "Ucroborprom" in the appointment of the head of the DP "Závod 410 CA" Viktor Gankević. Igora Lapina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of individual apartment gas accounting counters. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of disability benefits. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exacerbation of the environmental situation in Ukraine. Victor Halasyuk to the Director-General of the Kyivenergo Public Shareholders Society on the impossibility of receiving TV "Contactbudsservis" output from the Kyivenergo PAT for the provision of heat to residents. Victor Halasyuk to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade for the provision of a list of projects (programmes) of international technical assistance and their results for the period 2007-2016 Irina Frez to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation of the rights of military personnel of the 1st individual battalion of marine infantry, A-2777. Valeria Karpuntsov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration and restoration of the Salvation Temple of the town of Nizhina Chernigiv. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of financing for mining operations in coal companies. Dear colleagues, I will continue our work for 15 minutes in order to be able to read all the requests. Victor Krivenk's request was followed by the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the artificial expansion of the unestablished PAT "Zaporoz" officials of the time of gas outflow and the diameters of gas pipes damage that took place in the territory of Zaporez region as a result of the natural disaster in September 2014, which led to the write-off of the emergency costs. I'm sorry about the natural gas loss, especially the large one. Victor Krivenk to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services in Kiev and Kiev, the public shareholders association Kyivoblanerga in the area of unwarranted collection of losses and exclusion from electricity supply without prior notice by the public shareholders of Kyivoblanergo. The Gennady of Krivoschi to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine concerning the activities of the private shareholders association Kiev-Dniprovské DNIPWT Ostrichova’s aunts to the U.S. State Fiscal Service on the verification of possible violations of effective legislation by a group of ZED entities that import goods with a low customs value. Groups of National Deputies (Golubova, Jurčina, Crnovol) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the critical deterioration of the criminal situation in the Odessa region and the dismissal of the head of the National Police in the Odessa region of Giorga Lortkipanidze. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Visniki District State Administration of the Chernivsky Region for the allocation of State funding for the construction of a pedestrian crossing through the Siret River in the village of the town type Beregomet Visniki district of Cherniewec region. Groups of National Deputies (Godmoletz, Korchinsky, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at the implementation of the State's target programme to support participants in hostilities and their children to obtain vocational and higher education. Victoria Ptašnik to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Director of the Institute of State and the right of name of the Korean National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the availability of two expert conclusions from the Institute of State and the right of name of the Korean National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the legal protection of database openness and transparency of registration procedures. John Balloga to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the legality of land allocation. John Baloga to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Rector of the Uzhgorod National University, President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for the restoration of the historical park in the city of Uzhgorod. Aunts of Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for review of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ordinance on the Approval of Lists of Productions, Jobs, Occupations, Posts and Indicators of Employment, which grants the right to retirement at the age of benefits, and the non-restriction of the rights of pension workers. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-derogation of child services. Vladimir Husak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of response measures in relation to the head of the Manguschsky (formerly First Level) District Council of the Donetsk Region and the heads and members of the Counting Commission on the falsification of the vote when establishing the results of the vote for Decision No. 7/10-102 of 30.06. 2016 John Sporish to the head of the Tomaspil Village Council regarding the referral of a representative of the Tomaspel Village Council of the Winnitsky Region. Oksana Sold to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for payment of taxes on the income of natural persons on rent paid by single taxpayers. Oleg Petrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues related to the activities of multi-house owners’ associations and the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decrees No. 1687 of December 8, 2006, No. 860 of November 13, 2013 and No. 48 of October 21, 1995. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that the requirements of the Law on the free vaccination of children are met. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the payment of services for the acceptance of payments from the population for gas and the failure to carry out the government's mandate. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for Environmental and Sanitary Epidemiological Security of the population of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate for the urgent conduct of the non-planned verification of compliance with the requirements of the current legislation of TDV "Uzinian Sugar Combine" with the participation of representatives of the public. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is now Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to prevent pollution of the environment and the Homoora River in the village of Poninka (Animal Region), which is caused by the work of TOV "Poninkov's Paper Factory". Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on regional development projects implemented in 2016 at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, for the resolution of the issue of the repayment of the debt of the decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Oxanas Bilozer and Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Head of the U.S.S.A. on taking steps to verify the legality of access to and provision of specific types of information from foreign owners. Leonidas Hamza to the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for a grave violation of the rights of residents of the residential house, addressed to Kiev, 10-A Street. Andrew Pavelka to the prosecutor of the Zakartat district for the conduct of a background check on the citizen of John Rizak and the use of appropriate response measures. Andrija Pavelka to the prosecutor in Kharkiv district for the conduct of the examination of the circumstances set out in the address of citizen Sergio Chuba and the use of appropriate response measures. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of a criminal offence. Irina Suslowy to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the verification of the existence of a violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by the Director General of UDFZ "Krošta" Smilanski Igor Juhimovich. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine for the elimination of violations committed by employees in the execution of sentences in the Kharkiv region. Taras Shepherd to the head of the Society for the Defence of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide an answer essentially to the parliamentary request for information on the activities of the Society’s governing bodies in promoting the defence of Ukraine. Sergija Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Status Act by the Attorney General of Ukraine in part of the absence of a reply from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to a parliamentary request for information on the management of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the worsening of the unemployment and employment situation. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal from the official website of the Ukrainian People's Deputy of information about his presence at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the electronic registration and refusal of the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Suhević to register with an electronic system because this so-called registration is a distortion of the confirmation of the presence of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Natalia Wessellova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to terminate the contract with the Rector of the National Medical University of Bogolitska Katerina Amosova because of the violation of the six points of the contract. Oleg Velikin to the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service on the verification of the existence of violations of Ukrainian law by the Director-General of UDFZ "Krošta" Smilanski Igor Juhimovich. Groups of National Deputies (Matthew, Aresonkova and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources for the acquisition of equipment, tools and other medical goods to the Zitomir District District Centre of the Žitomir District Council. Alexia Savchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for causing bodily harm and harm to a citizen of Leschenko Igor Mikolaiovich. Paul Dziblik to head the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation regarding the release of a fire vehicle for the National United Territorial Society of the Zitomir Region. Irina Sisoyenko under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding temporary disability leaves. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the representation of the citizen in court. Leonidas Hamtsa to the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the threat of the destruction of a residential building, a monument to architecture at Kiev, 2/1 Kruglounistska Street, and the creation of a fire hazard for nearby buildings. Igora Pobera to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 4 June 2015 No. 390 on the audit of economic operators. Groups of National Deputies (Makaryana, Gerasimova, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the existence of a violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by the Director General of UDFZ "Krošta" Smilanski Igor Juhimovic. Victor Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct opened by the fact that he owned 616 million people. The bracelet of Alexander Klimenko. Victor Romanyuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the activities of an organized criminal group led by Igor Vladimirovich Salo. Jury Derevjanka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the urgent use of response measures aimed at ending illegal cuts in the territory of the National Natural Park "Gutzulščina" and attracting guilty persons to legal responsibility. Sergija Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the inhabitants of Shirokina, located on the line of delimitation. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the improper work of the housing and maintenance offices. And Vitalia Stasuka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, on the need to remove the causes of the green storms from the area of the Darnicka thermal power plant in Lake Garyach. Dear colleagues, all 319. 316 enquiries registered, announced. And we're waiting for answers full of those structures where they were sent. And, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have been approached by Sergio Vlasenko, the head of the people's delegation of Ukraine, in connection with his dissatisfaction with the answer to his parliamentary request. In accordance with article 226 of the Rules, I give Sergey Vlasenka a word to perform with a replica, up to 3 minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u55	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is not the first time that I have referred to the so-called Prime Minister of Ukraine, why so-called, because his appointment to this post was absolutely illegal. So my references to the so-called Prime Minister of Ukraine remain unanswered. The designated person directs the parliamentary questions sent by the Supreme Council to his employees under his authority. If I wanted to contact his subordinates, I would have done so in accordance with the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. So I demand an answer from this very person to whom I have addressed myself. I want to remind you that the last time I made a similar statement, because I was addressing this person who was illegally in charge of the Prime Minister's office, demanding that the tariffs that he had imposed be deciphered. And he told me that I had transferred your request to the NCREKP, to the Ministry of Energy, somewhere else. But today I've heard from this person some completely misunderstood statement that we have all the tariffs clear, that there is no problem with the tariffs, that we should, that we have everything good. But for some reason, when a national MP asks specific questions, there is no answer. By the way, there has been an obvious turn-of-the-line manipulation by this person, who was quoting the 2008 IMF memorandum. I think that all of us citizens of Ukraine lived in Ukraine in 2008, and we all remember that there were tariffs that were people's incomes, how people could pay tariffs, how people could get credit in banks, how people could afford to go on vacation not once a year to Turkey and Egypt. And we all live now. I understand that this person, the so-called Prime Minister in 2008, well, maybe a few years earlier, was still painting fences at the Vinick Cemetery, and he probably doesn't remember what happened at the time. I just want to remind him that the tariffs didn't rise at the time, that the citizens had enough income to pay the tariffs, even though there was a global financial crisis at that time. And the economic situation around the world was very, very bad. This gentleman has also been telling us a very long time about the cooperation between the Ukrainian Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, but once again, I stress when a certain national MP asks him questions he does not want to answer, or he is afraid to answer, he is afraid because he will immediately see the corruption that is taking place in the higher echelons of power. So he's talking about what someone else is going to write instead. So I'm paying attention to the Supreme Council again. Respect should be given to the national MPs, and the Cabinet should be required to have normal, specific, clear answers to the demands of the national MP in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, too, by exercising the Headship's right, I call upon all of us to renounce the language of hatred and disrespect for one another. I'll call it a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Here we have, I understand, some misunderstanding that there is no "Variance" in the daytime. I want to make a point: "It's different" is fine in the daytime. And we're not going to let anyone take him out and destroy him. Protect Ukrainian Parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u58	Can I do that now, please? The hall is mobilized and ready. Colleagues who wish to participate in the section "Razne" please come into the hall and prepare for the recording. Please, colleagues, be serious, after all. What's this joke and humor in the hall? Please, who would like to participate in the "Variance" chapter, please prepare. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, on Friday we have a request from the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm talking about the speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies in the "Rizzne" section. And whoever wants to take part in the performances, please record. Please. Silantiev Denis Olegovich is invited to attend. Korchinska is speaking instead of Silantieva. Six minutes, right? Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u59	Good afternoon! Praise Jesus Christ, glory to Ukraine! 14 months after the adoption of Law 425, when you and I voted with you in May 2015 for a bill that all our children of our dead military personnel at the ATO will have the right to enter any university and educational institution in the country. What do we have with you in 14 months? That this year, when the introductory campaign began, the children of the fallen fighters, the ones we're all sitting in the hall, the Cabinet of Ministers is sitting in their offices now, trading there to the left, to the right in their chairs, they're offered to join the ranks on general grounds. Under what right does the Cabinet of Ministers violate the rights of these children given to them by the Ukrainian Parliament 14 months ago? Once again, I call your attention, I now address all the families of our dead fighters, our heroes. We'll fight for every child. We've got a committee now, we're on-line, we're calling us on a platform called "People Help People," there's not going to be one child that doesn't go into budget funding. All children will be trained by the dead, whether the Cabinet of Ministers wants it or not. When I approached Groysman today and said how did it happen that you didn't find these coins for our dead fighters, their children? There was an explanation that there were no regulations, no money. How could there be no money? For six months, we've been arresting 64 million people stolen from OHMATDIT. The board of trustees, OHMATDIT, has done everything in its power to return this to the state every day, and with the leadership of the Minister of Finance, Daniluk is doing everything he can to give this money to Azarov-Yakuwich. Six months of fighting for the return of 64 million from the theft of OHMATDIT. You're saying there's no money? You say now that you don't have the money to treat our oncological children and our ATO fighters! It's good that he's now agreed to redistribute our budget committee, but it's also because he's taken out of one program and given up to save the lives of the children right now. There's money! All we have to do is get the officials to return them to the state. Glory to Ukraine! Praise be to our fighters and glory to all the ATO fighters who are now in the trenches.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Next. Korczynska's handing it over to Lášk. Three minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, I'll figure it out, Linka, in two. Yeah, he's falling. Then please shut down Linko and Korczynska and Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u61	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable Ukrainian citizens, July 17th, Ukraine will hold elections in seven districts. Why are these choices important? Because there's no real coalition in Parliament, there's a "a coalition of Panamanian patriots," which was the result of the plot of President Dustenk with oligarchs and regionals. There's no legal coalition. We call on the Head of Parliament several times to publish the names of members of the coalition. These "heroes" in the coffeehouses responsible for the tariff genocide, the theft of Ukrainians, the fact that Ukraine is today humiliated and followed, unfortunately, these "heroes" names don't publish us. Why is it important for the authorities to vote in seven districts? Because they want to hold their candidates in seven districts to make a coalition at the expense of these candidates. So I'm going to the citizens where they're going to participate in the July 17 election. When you're in favour of money, someone's offering to vote for a candidate of power, remember that this is how you strengthen the "a coalition of Panamanian patriots" that will increase your retirement age, sell land, sell state property, take the last cents to the peasants and all the workers. So from this parliamentary rostrum, I appeal to the inhabitants of Volina, Chernigov, Dnipra, Ivano-Frankivska, Luhansk, Poltavian, Hersonian: not to vote for the candidates of power! If you want a gas of 20,000 dollars for a thousand cubes, vote for Mikitas, which is floating in Chernig's 206 district. If you want a retirement age of 70, vote for other candidates from the Panamanian Patriot Block. I would like to say the situation separately because it's my hometown and everything that's going on is hurting me. We have a lot of support for Chernigov. But what does the authorities do? A passing passenger, Maxim Mikitas, comes along as a self-imposed, and, in fact, a relative of the President and a relative of Berezenka. By the neighborhood of 205, Berezenko had bought votes 500 years ago. Who of the nuns saw this Berezenko? Nobody. It's easier to find in the Bahamas and in the Canary than it is in Chernig. Now they're pulling their Mikitas candidate back in 206. This Mikitas has received, made a network, a network of voters' bribes, and he's handing out 500 bracelets to falsify the election. The district attorney's office, the district bureau covers these schemes, doesn't see bribes. I'm asking the Apparatus to show the whole country on screen to see Victor Nosenk's district attorney. I am. Look at this flower, it's the District Attorney's Office. When he was appointed prosecutor a year and a half ago, his face was three times smaller than it is today. You see how they blow up on the prosecutor's job that they have. The difficult conditions of work, which in one year such a person swelled up without eating, without getting any sleep. He's got "grandmothers," which he picks up with data from the whole Chernigev region, and he's got "grandmothers" crawling through his mouth, and they're crawling through his ears, and they're crawling through his nose. And someone will tell me, Lucenko, that they're fighting corruption, having these characters as district attorneys? Look at his baby! I said to him yesterday, "When was the last time you looked at yourself, a anti-corruption fighter?" And these corruption fighters are covering for the Mikitasian candidate to falsify the election results. That's what the authorities all over the country do because they want to sell Ukrainian land because they want to raise retirement age because they want to install 20,000 dollars of gas for Ukrainians. And that's why they need these seven candidates to become deputies to come here, to Parliament, to complete the coalition of Panamanian Patriots, and to rob Ukrainians. That's why I go to the people of Chernigov, to the people of Poltavščina, to Luhanščina, to the family of Dniper, to the family of Hersonščina, to the family of Frankovščina -- everywhere, in all seven districts -- and to the native Volin, of course. Throughout the seven districts, we have put our candidates on the floor, and I ask you to support: Volin, 23 Districts, Sergey Bula; Chernigus, 206 District, Dmitry Blausz; Dnipro, 27 District, Sergey Pashalov; Ivano-Frankovishtina, 85 District, Angela Jarovat; Luhanščina, 144 District, Constantine Ilchenko; Poltavščina, 151 District, Ruslan Lajsko; Hersonščina, 183 District, Vitaly Plugatarov. They are worthy people who, when they come to Parliament, will stand in opposition to uphold the right of citizens to a life of dignity. Unfortunately, the session of Parliament is closed today. For more than a month, we've been blocking, demanding the adoption of laws: tariff cuts, gas cuts, investigations into the corruption of senior officials of the state, including the President of Ukraine. The Panamanian Patriots Coalition is ignoring our demands. Prime Minister Groissman says, "If you're uncomfortable sitting here, move into your chairs." We may be able to move into chairs, but only as a result of their policies will the people lie down. And so we're not gonna let them rob people, we're gonna keep fighting, we're gonna keep having a holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u62	National MP Opanasenko gives the floor to his colleague Parasuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u63	I'm going to ask Mrs. Irina to turn on the video, and I've submitted it to the Supreme Council for you to see a video. Turn it on, please. I think you'll all recognize this lady, Mrs. Irina. Yes. It's for you to freshen up. No, no, wait. Let's go, let's go. Back there, you're modifying the Constitution or you're assigning a prosecutor with the Opposition Block, and you're taping. Next, we'll knock. Well, it means the so-called coalition, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The Opposition Block." Here we go, there we go. Next. And this is a culmination for all of us. Mrs. Irina, you were upset last night that drones were flying here, that's not the biggest problem. The problem. Why don't you scream when you say when things like this happen, so that we can vote for the regulatory committee. Why don't you give a political assessment of such things? You can't hear it. You said yesterday that Igor Lucenko was a passerby. He is the hero of Maidan, who has almost paid for his life for his beliefs, and he is worthy to be in this Parliament. And if we don't have any legal methods to fight the buttons anymore, so we're running drones, and they're going to fly until they start voting for themselves. And all you know is how to switch to personalities, and you're wondering what Easy is wearing, who's wearing shoes. You look at yourself, you're not a poorer person. You'd be more interested in why your patron, your boss, or the president of our country doesn't pay taxes on the Ukrainian budget, and it brings you to offshore companies. Why don't you understand? You know how to do a cheap political pianist like that and don't forget, it says you're "preflacable." Do you know what you're different from me? Nothing. Just because you're sitting there. And I'm sorry, using the highest parliamentary rostrum in our country to get someone to take a dump or something, it's wrong. See how this is happening in European countries, and first of all, take an example of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u64	Thank you for your attention. I have my word on the line. Please give me one minute, I've had a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u65	I want to remind you that actually, thanks to the Strike Group, which I also represented in the previous call, we succeeded in making changes to the Rules on Personal Voting through parliamentary methods. And it's never defined by content.) Very important, very important, I call everyone to order, as well. And no one has the right to humiliate voters, it is my political opinion that I, like the gentleman who just spoke, have the right to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian voters, to violate the Supreme Council regulations. Bringing this drone here is just as much a violation as buttoning. As far as buttoning is concerned, it was not fixed by means of drones. And it's also a violation of the Rules -- to lie to our electorate, to whom these MPs, who have come under democratic slogans and promised to actually vote in favour of reform, to vote here in favour, including for a change to the Rules, which will allow the European Parliament to change the rules here, to engage in diversified activities. And in fact, the voters will give everyone an estimate: and to those who come here and say he's a frontist. Frontists on the front today, not sitting in this session room. I would like to give the floor to National Deputy Igor Shurmi of the Opposition Block. Those seated today take on a great deal. And, you know, I'm just one more time, this frontalist, the frontalists, they're officers, Mr. Igor. And that's not how they treat women. And you're a walker. By the way, there were pregnant women flying over your drone. That's what passersby do!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u66	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, I'm part of another political environment, and what's happening in this room right now, I should be happy as a political opponent, and I'm ashamed. I am ashamed of what is happening as a result of the Dignity Revolution. Just, you know, anyone who goes here today with personal charges against his colleagues should remember that people are killed by military and civilian forces on the front. And people today, listening to the Supreme Council, will reflect on what our husbands, brothers, sons are doing today. And now, essentially. You know, a year ago, at the last session in this courtroom, a citizen of the Ukraine of Kwiatashvili, who promised two weeks later, thanks to the adopted Law on Purchase in International Organizations, it was 2015. In the autumn of the session hall, Bills will be proposed to launch a health reform in our country. There are no laws. There's no cure. I'm not even asking where the Ukrainian citizen is today. Even today, I am not talking about political responsibility and those in the hall who pressed the button for them and convinced everyone in medicine, in health care, that there would be an entirely different time. I am addressing the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the NABU, to all those who are now able to test financial flows. Today, there are two categories in the Chamber of Deputies, some say that international organizations have bought cheaper and we have an economy of 790 million of those 2 billion that have already been transferred, money has gone from Ukraine. Others say there is a violation today. I have a question. If 2 billion dollars is an economy of 800 million that means that more drugs are to be bought or that money is to be accounted for. I'm asking the power structures all of you, find out where this money is. Because there are no medications for today that are due in the 15th year. After immuno-prevention, only 10 percent of the demand, after oncology 16, after tuberculosis 31, only 50 percent of the 15th-year standard came in. That's what we're talking about today, 2016. And today, by supporting the very idea of buying international organizations, we must secure ourselves from the abuses that have taken place today. But no one says anything, no money, and no one's looking for it. I have one question: where are the hospitals and where is the money? Ask a citizen of Kvetashvili. Finally, the question is also: Where is he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome Mrs. Pteshnik, a non-fractional MP. Is it? Oh, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u68	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! You know, today we're closing this session. How effective it was, how effective were those bills that we adopted with you or maybe, which we failed, will certainly show time. But today, first of all, I want to ask all the national deputies who are now present in the hall to go out to the rostrum and show who is actually staying in this session room at the end of the session, who is waiting for the session to be closed and who is now working in the districts, who is in the session room doing the campaign, who is actually waiting for the end of the session and who is now in this room. Please, national deputies, show and show this picture. This is the end of the session. This is the end of the session, because some national MPs think that their work is on air somewhere in the districts right now, aging for their candidates, and they can't even wait for the end of the session to take stock. Please look carefully at who I am, and ask the Ukrainian people, and ask each of the deputies where your national deputy was from the list, or the majority on this Friday, when we summarize. Thank you. I want to draw your attention to yesterday's day where we wanted to pay attention to the bills in the area of decentralization. These are bills that were supported by the public. These are bills that will support the Ministry of Regional Development. These are the bills that we were asked about by the heads and heads of the village councils when we went to the region. In particular, we travelled to the Lviv region recently with the Eurooptimists interfractional association, and we were asked when a bill on the integration of the territorial communities that remained outside this procedure would be passed when Parliament unlocks it. We distributed these tablets to the people’s deputies and called for a vote in favour of these bills. But unfortunately, because of the absolute inefficiencies of Parliament's work, due to the inattention of the people's deputies by openly blocking the process of decentralization by the individual people's deputies. These bills were not even put before the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council did not even manage to include them in the agenda of the day session and to consider them yesterday. So I hope that September we'll start with decentralization, with bills that will support the public that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u69	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u70	Which is being implemented by the rehabilitation package of reforms. And that unlocks the success of the reform, because all those who believe in this reform, all those who went to the elections with this reform. I am very sorry that reform is not considered a priority at the moment. Because it can become one of the most successful reforms in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u71	Thank you, dear colleague. Please welcome Mr. Sporish of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u72	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Honorable National MPs. Well, part of it came out here to the rostrum. Yeah, most of it stayed in the hall. It's really not fair what they're about to show by all means, they're going to say, look, 10 people were at the rostrum. That's not fair. I didn't go out today, and I want to pry here, and I really want to say what we did and what we didn't do during this period of our delegation. And first of all, I want to say that I want to talk about what's bothering my constituents. First of all, I have sought and will also seek that we remove from the MPs the inviolability. Once again, I would like the prices of milk, in the end, for the village, for my people, for my voters, to be accepted in the second reading. Once again, I'd like the FAPAH to sell drugs because there are villages that are far from the district center, and there's no way we can get and accept this bill. I'm going to say that even though we haven't removed a lot of judges from work, according to their statements, and once again, two or three months, they're going to get hundreds of thousands of state funds, and they're going to go to work like that. And this is question number one, which should have assembled our hall, unfortunately, this has not happened. In addition, today we had a question to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I would very much like to ask my voters, from agricultural enterprises, that the changes in the Tax Code are part of the tax registration deadlines. Before 365 days, you could have registered the tax slips, now in 15. And we know very well that treasury costs to increase the tax registration limit are spent on the second, third day. We also know that the Internet does not work in rural areas. We also know that the State Fiscal Service and its servers are not working, and it turns out that these peasants are paying fines and agricultural enterprises. It would be a great pleasure to have this pointed out, and even though the tax registration would have been for at least 30 days. The harvest began in the villages. And it's very unpleasant that we see prices for agricultural production today. Now we see on wheat -- 3,000 and 3200 -- on barley and all that. I think the raiders here are actually dropping prices because they have the price of dollars as they used to be. But if there is a crop today, I would not want prices to be lowered. I'm talking to the minister of the Kutov farm. I wanted to be a peasant, and we know that the state also depends on agricultural production, and I think the price will depend very much on what the prices are today and how the village population will live. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u73	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u74	We should not be prying here, but we came to work and we should really work for the Ukrainian people. That's the way the pianist got it, that's the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Lechchenko of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u76	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Today the session of our Parliament ends and ends under the symbol of total parliamentary degradation in Ukraine. In recent weeks, Parliament has been engaged in what is actually the process of permanent blocking. Yesterday we witnessed how we tried to control the buttons. It is a disgrace to our Supreme Council, that after all these previous experiences, after the bills that the chairman mentioned after we swore to put an end to the buttoning, it flourishes in Parliament. And of course, I support the idea, if we have the ability to control them through the drone, let's control them. But besides fighting button codes, I want to look at another case that happened yesterday in the opposition block sector. When the deputies of the Opposition Block allowed themselves not just to be hammocked, sexist and hateful, to be addressed to journalists who control the voting process. In particular, it is a German deputy, the same judge of the villain who allowed Kuchma to choose the third term that allowed himself to go to the address of journalist Hanna Grabarsky, who continues to work in the press room. Then she continued to fix the buttons. And the second member of the Opposition Block, Balicki, has allowed himself an indecent gesture, which is actually a violation of human dignity, which has been shown to this journalist in the same way. I demand that the regulatory committee evaluate these two deputies of the Opposition Block and remove them from the next session. Our parliament has not only turned into a club of businessmen and not just a club where human culture, human dignity, is demeaning, we have obvious cases where MPs abuse their position. In particular, I have been aware of recent cases in which the head of one of the Transport Committees of Dubnevich has allowed himself to go to the office address and claims that if his business-related enterprises do not receive government purchases, then the bills that are advocated by ministers, deputy ministers, will never be passed through this committee. In fact, a person is in a permanent conflict of interest, but no one is paying attention to it. And we need to finally adopt in the Ukrainian Parliament the document that exists in other parliaments of the world -- the code of ethics when it comes to conflict of interest, the issue of corruption, and when punishment exists. Such things are unacceptable. And the last. The last sentence that I want to pay attention to. Please, we're talking a lot about corruption in Ukraine, but yesterday's edition of Economic Truth came up with an extremely interesting but not very resonant interview where the head of the regulator, Mr. Wolfe, directly said that he was getting pressure from Deputy Connonka to have Energomerega led by Mr. Khrüchchev, who was already in international search to work and withdraw funds from Zaporiżoblnergo. And Mr. Wolfe specifically said that Cononenko, in a command tone, is trying to retransmit teams in order for this regulator to approve decisions that corrupters need. Is this even normal in the Ukrainian Parliament when we have such phenomena when corruption becomes our "second being"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the People's Deputies of Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u78	Good afternoon! I would like to draw attention to yesterday's decision to vote on the Energy Market Board. Unfortunately, we had every opportunity to send the entire composition of the commission that made criminal decisions on tariffs, pricing and other issues. But a well-established coalition with the help of, unfortunately, the opposition did not vote and passed the new Law on the Energy Market and on the NCRECR. And now I'd like to pay attention. To draw attention to why, in fact, the well-established coalition, in fact, many of the deputies who influence the commission, did not vote for it. Since we know the last few, at least a few, undoubtedly criminal decisions of the commission. This is the formula for Rotterdam plus for the price of gas that it makes up. It's $10 billion. It's an incentive tariff for cloud industry, it's 30 to 35 billion. These are heat tariffs, which are derived from being doubled. It's a tariff for Ukrenergo, for the Ukrenergo companies, which are way out of line. For the purpose of withdrawing funds from this company. The total amount of criminal decisions is 50-60 billion dollars. It's actually these costs that are collected from every person, from every citizen through new tariffs on electricity, on gas, on water supply, on other utilities, it's actually what makes it possible to say that once the government has earned on the budget, and now the government is making money on people. The Self-Help faction, Self-Help, is suing for decisions that include fiscal, utility, kindergartens that are forced to pay a lot more. The Self-Help faction has been suing and is currently being investigated for the raising of nightlight tariffs on the streets of the city, which only makes the work and life of Ukrainians worse. So once again, I express my great regret that we had a failed draft yesterday, and that we have a corresponding return to the re-reading that will take place in September. And I urge everyone to really control who is actually doing the work that will lead to tariff cuts, because, in fact, each tariff is the responsibility of another body and we as deputies should take all the steps that are within our competence, and above all, it is the release of all the members of the NCRECR that have made such criminal decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u79	Thank you. And we also regret that such an important bill has not been adopted. The representative of the Self-Help faction, Egor Sobolev, is also invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u80	Today, soldiers of the Peacemaker battalions, the Harpoon and other people who returned from this war for independence went to the President of Ukraine to sign the Amnesty Act we passed. You know that the first decision of our Parliament that people who fought for this state should be amnesty if they are already convicted of non-problem crimes. The trouble is that this is just the first, and not enough, step for justice to come to these people. I know that there are people in this room who understand the situation very well, who are fighting for these people, who are worried about these people, but I know just as much that there are so many people in this room, and unfortunately, in the whole country, they want to turn away from the terrible truth that is in Ukraine. The best representatives of it, who have spoken for this state two years ago, who have preserved its independence for us, we are here all the Ukrainian national MPs thanks to them, you are all Ukrainian citizens thanks to them. But the terrible truth is that today too many of these Ukrainian supporters are behind bars in the state of Ukraine. They do not require that they be released without consideration and without investigation. They do not require a particular attitude, indulgence, toward crime. Valentina Licholith (calling "Batya") from "Idar," after he was released under the pressure of society, he said, "I'm not hiding and I'm not hiding from the investigation, I'm serving and I'm serving." What's more, I think it's immoral to release criminals, even if they hide behind camouflage. But let's all look reality in the eye: the whole charge against Bati is based on the evidence of Kozakov, former mayor of Severodonetsky, who first helped the state get rid of the Azota in favor of the private enterprise he led and then helped his city become part of the LP. The city was liberated like the Bata. Now it's OK with Kozakov, and Bata and many others are under investigation for charges such as Kozakov. Now that Parliament stops working, I ask all citizens to be very careful to monitor every subsequent court of every volunteer, to come to this court with us, to demand a thorough investigation of the evidence of guilt. If there's no such evidence, getting these people out of jail is our civic duty. They saved this state, they deserve our help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Musai is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u82	Honourable People's Deputies, Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red Town of Western Ukraine, 124 constituency. Mr. Yegor, do you really think that we have blossomed after the Orange Revolution? I think you and I should say that this is a time of rematch and a time of counter-revolution. And the leaders of the state and the first leaders of the state are those leaders of counter-revolution and rematchism. Not only did they betray those people, we are with you, those who were daily from the very first to the last day of Maidan, but they continue to betray the Ukrainian people. And I think the Ukrainian people will give very quickly, and I have great hope that in a peaceful way they will reach those powerful people who are packing up their pockets, they will pack their greedy cheeks, which are already cracking, like this prosecutor from Montenegro, who is not included in the object, this time will soon end. And if it's not an ordinary parliamentary path through elections, then believe me, I think a large part of the national MPs are able to lead Midan again and lead him to a logical conclusion, one that the Ukrainian people require, so that it is not ashamed of these betrayed, murdered heroes, both of the Celestial Ones and of those killed in the ATO. But I would like to continue to draw your attention to the horror that continues with the coal sector of Ukraine. Today, unfortunately, I have heard a terrible diagnosis from Mr. Nasalik's Energy Minister that they will insist on privatizing all the mines and leaving only six of them in the state. This is not only unacceptable, but it is criminal against the Ukrainian coal sector. First the ephemeral of some "Rotterdam Plus," which, now the price in Poland, is unknown. Mr. Nasalik, do you have the same income as the Ukrainian people in Poland? Are you paying the same salary as in Poland? Is self - worth in Ukraine shaped in the same way as in Poland? Why is Rotterdam, Poland, anything else? We have Ukrainian terms, we can't even the price. If you can't manage the industry, please speak up so openly. There is a decision of the Coal Workers' Association, which took place on 07.07. This is the last call and a warning to the Ukrainian authorities. You know that Ukrainian miners basically destroyed the Soviet Union. And they're also able to destroy these remains of criminal power that continue to be destroyed by Ukrainian miners. 420 million debt! Pay doesn't pay for two months. We were saying that the chimney was bad. But there was a month's pay at the chimney, and now there's two months' debt. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u83	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u84	If so, the rebellion will continue until autumn, as the traditional insurgency takes place in Ukraine. I call for the use of Ukrainian power, support Ukrainian miners, and support the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. National MP Martovicki, please. From the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, continuing the topic that my colleague Oleg Musei has addressed, I would like once again to draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to a situation that is becoming increasingly acute among hundreds of thousands of disabled miners and people affected by industrial accidents. The problem is that Ukraine no longer has a monthly estimate of the amount of the monthly insurance, or regressive payments. The only solution to the situation was the adoption by the Supreme Council of Law 4015, which was called upon to restore the rights of victims from accidents at work and occupational diseases, by ensuring that the sums of monthly insurance payments were calculated annually. However, after a failed attempt on June 16 to support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, I am concerned about the question, above all, of the speaker. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, why this very important bill is still not in order of the day, although you and the Prime Minister have promised me, have promised to miners who were starving in the Ministry. Having worked 27 years in the coal sector and today speaking out of this rostrum, I did not expect the present authorities to throw so shamefully and irresponsibly at people for whom social regressive payments are the only source of health and health support and their families. So, Mr. Head, I request you to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council to return to the question of incorporating draft Law 4015 into the agenda, and there are many social projects that citizens of Ukraine are looking forward to. In addition, respected colleagues, an equally important problem that I would like to draw your attention to, are the situation that has arisen in the country with the provision of the necessary medical remedies, a vaccine that is controlled by infections that are no longer a cause of concern, but that are growing with every day of anxiety about health, and sometimes even the lives of our citizens. Judging from the numerous appeals made by medical authorities and local self - government authorities, the supply of the necessary vaccine is getting worse every day. For example, in the city of Pavlovgrad, which is part of my constituency of more than 100,000 inhabitants, the provision of the necessary types of vaccines is mostly between 0 and 30 percent of what is needed. A very difficult situation with the provision of an antituberculosis vaccine, the BCG, which began in 2014. And Pavlovgrad is not the only population in Ukraine whose Ministry of Health is unable to provide adequate protection for all types of population against viral infections. And today I've been approached, and the situation with insulin-dependent people is that some families can't get insulin, and insulin won't provide, to a lesser extent, the Western Donbas region. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u87	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u88	Therefore, I especially demand that all possible measures of influence be taken immediately so that those responsible for preserving the health of our citizens, within the shortest period of time, can correct the situation with regard to the provision of the necessary medical supplies in sufficient quantities and continue to place the Ukrainians on this critical threshold of survival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. Sergey Vlasenko from the "Fatherland" faction is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u90	Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland. Today we're taking stock of the work of this session of the Supreme Council, everyone is talking about whether this work was effective, whether it was ineffective. You know, if you count the number of laws, you might think that we're actually adopting a lot of useful laws, we're voting every day for 20, 30 bills. But if you go outside and ask people if they are better off living by this law, unfortunately, the censoring words in response will hardly be heard. When people are asked how they feel about this Parliament, it is also very rare when uncensored words are censored. Why is this happening? Let's talk about this straight. The first problem of the Ukrainian Parliament is that decisions are not taken in the Ukrainian Parliament. All major and key decisions are taken outside the Ukrainian Parliament. This authority has already come to the point that they publicly claim that decisions are made by strategic sevens. As long as this continues, no reform of parliamentaryism will do anything. We can overturn the Supreme Council's Rules tens of times, but as long as decisions are taken outside Parliament, or Peter Prashenko, or Kabmin, or those who actually control the People's Front faction, unfortunately nothing will happen in this Parliament. Note how the agenda is formed or the laws are voted on only by the President, or only by the government, or by those deputies who have asked for the President's or the government's bills. This means that Parliament has ceased to be a place for decision-making. It's different. What happened at this session. This session seems to have formed a coalition. Show us. Show the Ukrainian people a coalition that does not exist. At this session, the government was elected. The government has been chosen for violations. I would like to remind you that according to the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine is the prime minister. But we voted on a decree made by two people's deputies, at that time the head of the BPT faction and the leader of the People's Front faction. How many new presidents do we have in the country? And so the third conclusion. Sadly, double standards flourish in the Supreme Council. So it's very hard for me to hear from my colleagues who came to Midan, who justify the buttoning that really did everything in the past to make sure that this buttonage didn't happen. Today, however, the violation of the Constitution is likened to actions that seek to counteract the violation of the Constitution. These are absolutely clear double standards. I'll point out again, unfortunately, we can talk a lot, but if we don't get back to this session hall the possibility of making decisions here, nothing will change, nothing. What happens next will happen. The destruction of the government system will continue. Next comes the destruction of the Ukrainian army, which we are told every time the opposition raises social issues. We're told every time, let's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u91	30 minutes, please, Mr. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Every time we raise social issues, we're told that we should vote for ATO soldiers. We vote, but once again nothing changes, because in a month we're told again, let's vote again on the ATO soldiers. We're voting again. Again, nothing changes. You know, I think we should all say "Glory to Ukraine" less. We need to think more about Ukraine. And yet more to live with Ukraine in the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u93	Thank you, dear colleague. Now, the People's Deputy Kodola of the People's Front faction is invited to the floor. He was given the word of the People's People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u94	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues, in my speech, I would like to raise an extremely important problem. The problem of providing essential drugs to the sick Ukrainians I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, to the lack of targeted funds for the purchase of insulin, primarily for people with diabetes mellitus, and to the treatment of patients with chronic kidney disease. Especially in Montenegro, which I represent in the Supreme Council, providing life - sustaining drugs to patients today is only 54 percent. The government budget deficit for insulin-dependent people is 1.6 million dollars, and the nephrological profile is 26.6 million dollars, of which 9.3 million is for services to persons transferred to the area of the Anti-Terrorism Operation. So today I am addressing the Ministry of Finance’s Office, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, to provide adequate funds in the State Budget and to provide lifesaving medicine to our Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u95	Thank you. The People’s Deputy Wolf is invited to speak from the faction of the Radical Party of Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u96	Victor Wolf, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. Dear Ukrainians! President Poshenko humiliated the Ukrainian people in the international arena. This time he kneeled in Warsaw before a monument with the official title "Vollin massacre victims killed by the hands of Ukrainians." This was the day after the Senate of Poland adopted the anti - Ukrainian resolution on the recognition of the 1943 Wallin tragedy, when tens of thousands of civilians were killed on both sides of the genocide of the Ukrainians. The Senate also called on the House of Commons to approve the relevant decision. It is very surprising that the President of Ukraine, whose people have never been an aggressor and suffered from one of the most terrible genocides in the history of humanity in the year 1932-1933, has not for the first time apologized for the Ukrainians and the historical crimes in which we feel guilty. President Prashenko does not seem to share the feelings of the Ukrainians and does not feel the humiliation of his unilateral apologies and actions. The Presidents of Poland and Ukraine, Kaczynski and Yushchenko, gave an example of mutual respect for the memory of all the victims of the Volin tragedy eight years ago when they visited together the sites of these tragic events and declared mutual forgiveness and reconciliation and respect for the memory of innocently murdered Ukrainians and Poles. This is what a mutually acceptable formula for reconciliation, based on a common, true assessment of this tragic page of our history, is produced in the early 2000 ’ s. Sadly, in the past year, Polish chauvinists were influenced by the authorities in Poland. We already have the anti-Ukrainian resolution of the Polish Senate and the plausible approval of the Polish Seima on 19 July. Of course, responsible statesmen cannot allow the complex events of history to still splinter Ukrainians and Poles, just playing at the hands of our enemies, as has been the case in history. However, the unilateral actions of the Polish deputies and the humiliating knee - worship of President Dustenk in Warsaw will not contribute to the mutual apology, forgiveness and understanding between our peoples, on the contrary, could only lead to a new strain of alienation. Surely we must speak the truth, but test the truth on both sides, only then will history not become a hindrance to friendship and cooperation among our peoples. Therefore, together with the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, we have submitted a draft statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the purpose of the Senate and the Polish Semester unilaterally to review the Ukrainian-Polish arrangements for a joint assessment of the tragic events in Volina. Nevertheless, Oleg Láska’s Radical Party hopes that common sense and goodwill will eventually prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u97	Thank you. People's MP Jedakov has given up his word on the People's Front. There's no one in the People's Front? Please pass the word to the national deputy Kishkarev. Please. Now Jedakov and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm glad to welcome those deputies who think it's necessary to be in the hall right now. In fact, by summarizing the work of this session, I would like to quote some statistics from yesterday. Nietzsche, one dead, two wounded. Nine people were killed on Ukraine’s roads, and four were injured in ATO. This summation of "life in Ukraine" is such an inconsolable summary of our struggle for independence. Today, this war continues both in this hall and in amber mines and in other business areas where it is considered necessary to squeeze, crack and add. And there's a lot of work in this room today to solve these issues. As far as amber is concerned, this is the Rosenblatt, Krivenka and Eutuska bill, which regulates these issues, which resolves and closes, in fact, the possibility of these illegal acts being committed there. The second question I would like to remind you is that we are co-authors with Mr. Krivenk. These are the lists that we're going to be transferring to the Supreme Council's apparatus today. We will be grateful if this position of the National Movement of Ukraine is supported by other national MPs, and during the next session we will vote and support the release of this bastard from office as Odessa’s city head. Well, everyone's already advertised their election moves. I'm also the head of the National Movement of Ukraine headquarters. We have six candidates for election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we urge all Ukrainian citizens to come to them (mainly to come) to support worthy, honest people. We represent young and experienced rafts in our team, and Horishkov in Dnipropetrovsk, and Sauka Oleg, who are 34 and 31 respectively, Sauka is the youngest candidate in the constituency in Kalucha, who barely gives in to the Energy Minister's brother; Great Anatoly is the almost permanent leader of the Luhansk People's Movement National Organization, will represent us in the elections in Lugansk Region; Panchenko Alexander Ivanovich is in the Lochvik election and 151 in the constituency. The interesting prospect lies in Sergey Rybauk in Hersson, who represents the People's Movement and is supported by a regional organization that is the founder of large companies in a city that has created about 2,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u99	Thirty seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u100	And in conclusion, we present to you our candidate in 206 -- Chepur's Basil Fedorovich, who heads both education in the area and is a substitute for a foreign organization. I ask all people to come to the elections and to support the political power to which they are favored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u101	Thank you, dear colleagues. National MP Popov gives the floor to the national deputy of Lithuania, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u102	Please, Mr. Volodymyr, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u103	Dear Head, dear colleagues, historical practice shows that any authority is potentially prone to abuse. And to that end, the world has come up with parliamentaryism so that a strong representation of the people can control power and defend the interests of the people. How effectively do we do this? Judging from the condition of Ukrainian society, it is absolutely bad. Unfortunately, we brought hatred into the session hall and into society in general. Because of our hatred, we try to unite society, and things turn out the other way around. All that is happening in the political environment reminds me of my childhood, the rural shepherds who, when they get into the pasture, compete who will continue to flow. And our politicians have taken sides and are launching their powerful toxic streams into Ukrainian society, which are making people worse. Well, it's obvious that tariffs aren't up for people. Well, why can't we talk about this in the session room with the government involved? When it's said that tariffs are economics, let's find out if there's an economy when they can't pay, and what to say to a simple, hard-working pensioner who gets less. A thousand dollars of retirement, and she needs 500 dollars for medicine? How can she explain that she should adhere to market conditions? I'm talking to those who are so passionate about reforms that we're just having a chat, a chat. Because there can be no reform when there are no layers, no rows of people supporting them. Please tell me how you can react to people's moods when you ask them any question, let's say people survive on account of what they give milk. They give milk, they don't give it back. Wherever I write, obviously like you, the answer is, "Case this matter through court." Please tell me, how can a rural woman solve a court-martial when they have to pay 70,000 dollars to the village? That's a huge amount for them. 70 grand on trial. Why do we have administrations? Why do we have control organs? Let's get rid of everything -- let's leave the courts, which, by the way, have been destroyed. Previous ones were accused of serving the previous authorities, and now they are forced to judge another authority. And there are so many of these problems. I urge you, my fellow Members, to: let us insist that we have a dialogue in place in the Supreme Council so that we can talk about these problems and find solutions that will make people feel better. We should be less concerned about who wins, which political party, the main thing to win, in the extreme case that they don't lose. I have great disappointment and regret about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u104	Please, 30 seconds. Thank you. Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich passes the word to Yuri Lewchenk. Please, Mr. Yuri. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. Mr. Yuri, could I have your attention for a moment? We've got 13.43 now. We can actually give three more performances, three or four performances: Levchenko, Kishkar, Kocheljeva, maybe Dove. Maybe it's a pigeon. Society, I'd like it to be a general agreement on the issue, but the Dove speech will be final and final, four speeches, we'll agree in advance, everyone knows who's got the performance, yes, four speeches, we're no longer making it, colleagues. It's all very simple. Please, Mr. Yuri, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u105	Good day, distinguished Ukrainian people, our radio viewers, and our bodies. TV and radio. Yuri Lewchenko, 223 district, city of Kiev, Freedom. I would like to address today more than the mayor who was elected in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. But I think what I said today will be interesting to everyone, so I strongly advise everyone to listen to who voted yesterday in the black day of Kiev at the meeting of the Kiev City Council yesterday. The point is that yesterday at the meeting of the Kiev City Council, the head of the BPP Party, Mr. Klitschko, the active mayor of Kiev, surpassed his teacher, Mr. Chernevski. Yesterday, the Kiev City Council voted in favour of four detailed plans for areas in the Shevchenkov region, the Obolonian region, the Dniprov region, Russia, in the Glossiev region. These detailed plans apply to the hundreds, hundreds of acres [100 ha] of the city of Kiev. These detailed plans of the territories are completely overturning the 2020 Gen. and allowing Kiev to be built where there should be green areas, where there should be squares, where there should be low-floor construction, where there should be some areas of agricultural destination, they are also in Kiev. They all turn the earth after these ballots into a dense building of many floors, 15 floors, 20 floors, 12 floors, shopping malls, and so forth. So yesterday the Kiev City Council voted in this way. In particular, a detailed plan of territories on Nikam was voted on. It is suggested that we build a third of the Levels where there is now the remains of a vegetable factory that Mr. Philippes once privatized, about 60 hectares [60 ha] of the Philippines now wants to build. And the Philippians bribed the city council of Kyiv with the help of his friend Klick. And I'd like to go to all the Chinese right now, to all of our audiences, to listen to people -- and as the Kiev City Council voted in favour of building 60 hectares of residential area, where there's no infrastructure at all. Solidarity, WFP is 45 deputies for self-help, 5 deputies for self-help, 12 deputies for fatherhood, 12 deputies for fatherhood, and 1st. Whoever said anything about "Freedom," but the only party that voted against it, all MPs 13, was "Freedom." And the rest just took the Philippines and sold a third of the Levels that it's about to build. There's talk of Mikitas building Mikitas, and now he's in Chernigow. So yesterday, the Kiev City Council, instead of banning the Mykitassa, instead of sending Mikitas to prison, the Kyiv City Council last night legitimized his legacy, which he had been building on the prospect of the Vernadians for two years illegally. And yesterday, the Kyiv City Council ruled it out: 44 members of the WFP, 10 self-help deputies, 7 deputies of the Fatherland, 12 deputies of the Unity. Once again, the only "Freedom" didn't vote for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u106	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u107	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Ukrainian people, this is reality. Look who's voting on your board. And I'm talking to voters, niggers, think about how.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Kishkar Paul Mikolaiovich gives the word Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u109	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear TV viewers, this session has come to an end. You know, you can get the session together every second, you just need to get the votes first and that's all. So don't believe the manipulations there about the continuation of the session, it's not necessary. On the very first occasion, we can all be gathered together in peace. This morning, I asked the Prime Minister. And it's a good thing that Mr. Reva and I have a common position on the program that I initiated last year, which was supported by the Self-Help faction, was supported by the Budget Committee. That's 300 million dollars for the families that died in ATO, disabled I, category number two. For each family to know that it is protected, do not prove it, God, if something happens to its breadwinner. We've given up all this money, you know, financial decentralization now. All of these funds were distributed to district administrations. Look at the district administration’s acquisition of the family of a widow named Hero of Ukraine’s Zubka. And the fact that she's living in Hmelnicki, she's not getting it in Hmelnicki. Then they said you'd get out, and we'd take it away, and we'd get you to sign the papers. It's a good thing her sister doesn't care. Today, the Prime Minister said he would take control of the matter. And so we have information on several areas, and now I've written a letter to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. When 13,000 bracelets were bought and the city in question was hanged, the builders were given an 8 - by - 9 - to - 9,000. You know, yesterday I called on the briefing deputies to support the holding of the Odessa City Council election. Thank you to those 70 deputies who have joined in on this issue. It's from various political forces, from different political factions that support that a citizen of the Russian Federation can't be the city head of a Ukrainian city as strategically important as Odessa. Cameron does not accuse, Prime Minister of Britain, that Panamanian documents are honest. Putin doesn't complain to Roldugin that the truth is written there. The Prime Minister of Iceland does not complain that the truth is written there. There are clear data, activists have clear blue seals, statements from all the registers, which are indeed Russian passports. And now I'm not asking offshore questions about whether there's any budget money coming out, although there's a lot of information about how much money is coming out for the company that Mr. Truhanov started, and now it's a matter of national security. The last thing I wanted to do was invite all of our TV viewers to the election. Anyone who does not come to the elections and then criticizes the authorities has no moral right to do so. True, the one who takes the Greek and votes has no right to criticize. Young people don't go to elections, and then we think why pensioners for Greek and emotion, because of trust in populists, have such a Supreme Council. I was an observer in the Kamyansk elections in 97th year of the People's Movement, and I was still in Dniprodjinski, and the turn was 200 meters of grandmothers and grandparents who voted for Lazarus because he gave them 20 bracelets, and then they resent why. That's why I call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u110	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u111	So I urge everyone to come to the election. Who you vote for is your right. I urge you to vote for the People's Movement and its candidates. In the 27th district of Khorisko Dmitry Volodymyrovic, 85th Kalush - Savka Oleg Vasilovic, 114th Lugansk region – Veliko Anatoly Volodymyrovic, 151th, Lochvitsa, Poltavščina – Panchenko Alexander Ivanovic, 183rd, Hersonščina – Rybakov Sergey Anatoliyovich, 206th – Čepurni Vasil Fedorovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u112	Thank you. Koljev Alona Volodymyrna conveys the word Silantiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u113	Denis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I want to tell you this little information. Ukraine is today the European champion of mortality, European champion of cancer and AIDS, European champions of child crime and child alcoholism. And this is all the information that Ukraine is celebrating in Europe. The only thing we can counter this is the success of our athletes in the international arenas, the sports arenas of Europe and peace. Today is the day before the Olympics. Our athletes will die in sports arenas in order to uphold the honour and prestige of our country, and their coaches will receive heart attacks from the performance and also from the responsibility that lies with them. And I want you to be on behalf of our deputies, and I want to congratulate the Radical Party faction, and I want to wish our athletes success, strength and luck to present our country with dignity. And I want to see, when we look at the results and presentations of our athletes/ we know that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cancelled the financing of children's sports schools last year, that the Cabinet of Ministers cancelled the financing of children's health, that the Cabinet of Ministers taxed land and real estate on physical and sporting complexes. Today, there are two laws in the Supreme Council. The first one that will bring back the benefits to keep the only infrastructure that is today at the weight of gold that is still available today so that our children can play sports with you and enjoy themselves so that they do not run on the streets, are not in the courtyards and in the backyards, because we know very well what they are waiting for. The second bill will allow local budgets to finance activities aimed at developing physical culture and sports. I would like to request the Presidency of the Supreme Council that when the session, the next session of the Supreme Council, begins, we exercise our responsibility and put these bills to the vote. I also wish to emphasize that the Radical Party faction has always consistently advocated and will continue to ensure that all important and vital laws for Ukraine are defenceful, that is economic development, that is social guarantees, and that the most important health of the nation is introduced and adopted at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u114	Thank you. And the closing act, Dove Vladislav Viktorovich. Please make the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladislav Doub, 197th constituency, Cherkaszczina. You know, my colleagues here today have already reported that Mr. Wojciekhowski's oodious contractor has been detained, but it's probably a year in this name. There's another person with a name like that -- the mayor of Goldilocks, who may also be building about the same pattern, but a little bit in another context. About a month ago, a paphosically rediscovered reconstructed, as if reconstructed, cleaning buildings of the city of Zlatanosza. Back then, I was reporting on the corruption risks that there are millions of millions of dollars on these cleaners. But they're not going to work. So I'd like to read you the conclusion of the sanepidem station since July 5th of this year. On that point, after being put into service in the queue, they have already been put into service several times, as well as liquid water indicators in the Suha Zhar River. So this is in the Suha Zhar River. Flushing fluids, the lactop positive index of the gut is 24,000 units per decimeter cubic. The E.coli index is 6,200 in one cubic decimeter. Exceeding iron and HSC content. So this once again emphasizes that the city’s head is in no way interested in actually bringing the city into order. But more recently, I saw a city head in Kiev on a Toyota Sekovoya vehicle with the SA 4,000 Ah numbers. And I took this gentleman's declaration, but he's poorer, poorer than a church mouse. He's only had a Chevy Aveo in his declaration for the last three years. I was intrigued by that question. Thus it turns out that the car he is moving is owned by Mr. Sergio Vitaliovich, born in 1977. And here's the question: is there any corruption here or not when the city's head is using a car that he hasn't declared? All these documents were transferred to the relevant law enforcement agencies and to the National Anti - Corruption Agency. And one more thing I'd like to stop at is the subject that was raised today. Personally, I have always acted against the buttonage. I insist that we adopt a second reading bill that regulates the issue of the imposition of responsibility for buttoning. But I would like to look to colleagues who, I believe, in a very poor form, have addressed our Parliament's First Vice-Speaker. You don't have to hang medals: who was there on Maidan, who wasn't, who did more, who did less. We were all there, we were all doing something. And Mrs. Irina has been there since day one. And Mrs. Irina continues to perform that difficult mission that not all of us could have done. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u116	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u117	The release of hostages from the hands, the bloody hands of Putin. At the very least, I think this expression was not valid for a woman. I hope we find compromises in this room, and we're going to put really, really fit in for buttoning. But I urge all my colleagues to be tolerant of all of us, because this is Putin's plan to get us all together, and that's what he's waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u118	Thank you! Dear colleagues, the time allocated to the national MPs is over. In addition, the final plenary day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation ends today. And most of all. Please sit down, I'll announce it later. And please. Above all, what I would like to point out is that the Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated that it can face global challenges during the war. Because the main and most important task of the Kremlin in the hybrid war is to throw Ukraine into chaos, to create conditions for the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that 450 acts were adopted during this session. And I'll remind you, only this July week, when everyone said the deputies weren't going to be in the hall and no one was going to vote, we only made 12 decisions on Tuesday. Yesterday, Thursday, we made 16 decisions. And this is an illustration of Parliament's efficiencies, this is our answer to the aggressor, including. Because Putin, after being defeated in his concept of Russian Spring, when he wanted to capture half of Ukraine, they introduced plan number two, developed in the Kremlin. And the objective of that plan is to destabilize the public and stop the functioning of the public authorities. A lot of people say, here in the hall, too, stop relying on the Kremlin, let's not mention the Kremlin. You know, all my life I've been saying one important phrase, that the devil's most diabolical invention of the devil is to convince everyone that the devil is gone. I said that in 2007, the next one after Georgia, when we called here in the hall, to vote against the Russian Federation, against its occupation. I was saying it on Maidan, which could be. By the way, do you remember who voted then, too, in 2007? I was saying at Maidan, there's going to be aggression in Russia. They came up to me and said, "Stop throwing everything at Russia." Until the tanks came to our land. We need to remember and understand who our enemy is, our friends. And the enemy's job is to argue with us in this room. The people who were together in Maidan who were together in the ATO who were side-by-side standing in trenches. Today, all of us as a group, friends, all the factions that are in Parliament, have demonstrated that this plan has no chance, this plan has no prospects. The Ukrainian Parliament in the most difficult times of the Ukrainian state was the one that allowed Ukraine to emerge from the crisis. After the orange revolution, we remember that after Maidan's dignity, this site, the highest legislative body in Ukraine, was the island of stability that gave Ukraine the future, giving Ukraine a chance. We've been through this. The Ukrainian Parliament works, the Ukrainian Parliament adopts laws to strengthen defence. Second, I want to say that the Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated that we are ready to continue fighting corruption. This is the worst evil in Ukraine since Putin. Because this Parliament created an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, this Parliament was created by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and it was this Parliament that, after the investigation of the NAB, decided to arrest, including Deputy Onishtenka, who is accused of stealing billions. Third. The Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated that it is ready to break ten - year schemes and adopt laws that could not approve the MPs of any previous Supreme Council call. It is this Supreme Council that has decommunized the names of the settlements. We renamed more than a thousand settlements in Ukraine, we gave the Ukrainian cities the original names: these are the Olesks in Hersonian, and the Kamensks in Dniprovščina, Bachmut in Donetskina, the Mountain Bluvni in Poltavščina. And in fact, we've demonstrated that we have here, in this Parliament, over 300 -- for the first time in 25 years of Ukrainian statehood -- over 300 pro-Ukrainen, pro-European deputies. And this is our answer to all those who say that Parliament is unable to work. We are not finishing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my colleague. We're just closing another plenary session today. The next week, we have work to do on the committees. And I'm sure and I know that if the situation in the east gets worse, we'll quickly collect 150 signatures to collect the next session. When we're asked questions, and we'll see that the threat of Russian invaders who are active every day will need our decisions, I'm sure, colleagues, we'll be mobilised, we'll gather to make decisions in defense of our country, in defense of Ukraine. And in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare that the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 6, 2016. And I declare the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the eighth call closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-15-m0.u119	The glory of Ukraine!
